u2022-06-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 3rd day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be here to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 will begin. The bill is T/152. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/152/3. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear House, Allow me to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, Vice-President Holman Magdolna and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to the hearing. I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act as a legislative committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the time frame allocation. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate.
u2022-06-22-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 11-hour timeframe is divided into 226 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 104 minutes for the KDNP Group; 63 minutes for the DK Group; 50 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 50 minutes for the Momentum Group; 50 minutes for the MSZP Group; 39 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 39 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 37 minutes for the LMP Group; 2 minutes for independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has applied through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made direct contact, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member, each within a 7-minute time frame. The voice of the representative or representative of the nationalities committee of Hungary, as well as the further speeches of representatives and advocates of nationalities, may take place on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays in 20-20 minutes, in a total of 60 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2022-06-22-2	Dear Parliament, In the general debate, today, the opening speech of the National Assembly will take 40 minutes; the President of the State Audit Office will speak in a 30-minute time frame; the President of the Board of Budgets will speak in a 30-minute time frame; the main speeches of the political groups in a 30-30-minute time frame; the address of the minority representative invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary will be given in a 20-minute time frame; then the further speeches will be open to the time period of each faction. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-3	Mr. President. Dear Lords of the President, Dear House, I am now presenting to this House the successive 13th budget of the Orbán government that took office in 2010. It is an honour to do so, even if the planning prospects have not been as difficult and uncertain as they are now, since the recent economic crisis, perhaps 2008. Each year has a separate history, different challenges were faced after a deep crisis in 2010 than at a time of very good growth. There is an even greater difference when we look at the external effects that have affected our country in recent years. The aim and task, however, have always been clear to the civilian government: an independent, value-based policy and economic policy for the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary must be followed. With these principles, we do not break up in difficult situations, nor did we during the epidemic, nor do we stand by them during this war period. In recent years, the Hungarian people have set an example of how to work together so that we can be safe. Hungary has stood its ground, the Hungarian economy has remained strong, and we have even succeeded in coming out of a major economic downturn like the Great Depression. The recovery of the economy after the epidemic was particularly successful, with an increase of 7.1 percent in 2021, which increased to 8.2 percent in Q1 this year. The number of people at work has also reached a record, and incomes are growing at a good pace. And the fact that so much investment was made last year, as never before, was a very positive picture. However, since the outbreak of the war, we have faced even more serious crises and uncertainties. We cannot see the end of the war, so we must expect that the conflict will be prolonged, the economic effects of war and sanctions in Brussels will be ever more serious. The government is therefore putting forward a proposal for a fiscal law which takes into account the effects of the sanctions imposed, the consequences of the energy crisis caused by the war, war inflation and the economic crisis in Europe. [[8.10]] We therefore expect that the current situation, which represents high inflation and high energy prices, as well as the impact of interest rate increases, is clearly sustained in the case of the European Central Bank or the Fed. Unfortunately, over the past six months, the forecasts for the global economy as a whole have been more downward, with no upward projections. More and more people are talking about recession, and in this context, we must also plan the 2023 budget. What can we do? The government will keep its word in this situation, and we will therefore use the resources of the 2023 budget for the purposes that are most important for the Hungarian people: support for families, protection of pensions, preservation of the results of the reduction, strengthening the country's security, safeguarding jobs and supporting the creation of new ones, and not least to keep the economy on a safe growth path. So we want to protect our results, create a reserve, help families and businesses to continue their investment and reduce risks. The 2023 budget is therefore a budget for the reduction of overhead and defence. From the budget, these are the most important economic policy directions that have been included in the figures. The objective of maintaining stability in the country and further improving balance indicators has not changed, and therefore we continue to pursue a disciplined fiscal policy. Measures to increase revenue are accompanied by measures to reduce expenditure, so we want to reduce deficit and debt levels while maintaining results. Dear Parliament, In the year of the election, we also follow the eight-year-old practice that the government will present next year's budget to Parliament in the first half of the year. We believe it is important that the people, businesses and the institutions concerned get to know the government's planned actions as soon as possible. We have tabled a bill to protect the results so far, to ensure the safety of Hungarian families and to keep the economy on a growth path. In the draft budget law of 2023, the government calculated economic growth of 4.1 per cent, a deficit target of 3.5 per cent, a declining government debt of 73.8 per cent of gross domestic product and a inflation rate of 5.2 per cent. The structure of next year's budget is a change in the fact that the previous funds will be replaced by two new ones, the Rezségvédelmi Fény, in which HUF 670 billion and the Hungarian Defence Fund, in which HUF 842 billion are available for the necessary expenditure. The first fund allows Hungarian people not to pay the price of war and Brussels sanctions policy. We see that the release of energy prices is a major blow to Europe as a whole, and further sanctions can bring even higher energy prices. The Rezségvédelmi Alap protects Hungarian households against this. The aim of the fund is therefore to reduce the effects of a drastic and unpredictable increase in energy prices on the world market, thereby preserving the results of the reduction of the costs. This is to protect the financial security of families. The preservation of Hungary's peace and security cannot be discussed either. This requires a modern, strong army to meet today's challenges. Accordingly, the Defence Fund will contain resources for the development of forces. The funding of the two funds is provided by solutions that do not impose additional burdens on Hungarian people. We expect greater social involvement from sectors that have achieved high profits in recent years. This is what the special tax on this profit means. Dear House, Due to economic policy measures in recent years, in 2020 the epidemic was a dynamic, balanced economy. In the current uncertain international economic outlook, it is even more visible that we have made good use of the last decade rather than pursuing the policy before 2010. As a result, the negative economic processes caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war have a moderate impact on Hungarian growth. You recall that between 2014 and 2019 the Hungarian economy increased by 4.1 percent on average, while the average growth of the European Union was 2.1 percent. Public finances were in balance, and public debt declined steadily and continuously from 80 per cent to 65 per cent. Hungary has been able to respond decisively to the economic challenges of the coronal virus epidemic, building on our own strength. In 2020, Hungarian GDP decreased by 4.5 percent, which is lower than the 5.9 percent fall in the EU. The 2021 growth was one of the fastest in the European Union. With this achievement, our country has surpassed Slovakia in terms of relative development and has also preceded Portugal. I would add that we have also been able to strengthen our competitiveness, as the Hungarian economy has in the meantime reached 39th place from 52nd in 2017, so the strengthening of competitiveness and efficiency has also contributed to our ability to achieve better performance. The Hungarian economy was therefore hit by the shock caused by the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war and the sanctions during a strong economic activity. At the same time, the results of this year's first months were in excess of expectations, as opposed to the many negative positions. Accordingly, the labour market situation is also developing positively. This year, the number of employees in the first four months was on average nearly 4.7 million. At the same time, the unemployment rate decreased by 0.8 percentage points to 3.5 percent in one year. This remains one of the most favourable values in the European Union. The investment rate, preserving previous results, is above 27 percent, so Hungary is the first in this respect in the European Union. And if there are investments, investors look ahead optimistically and consider it worthwhile to invest and invest in the Hungarian economy. This year, the government expects a gross domestic product growth of around 4.7 percent, and next year, the dynamic growth continues, as I said, with an increase of 4.1 percent. [[8.20]] Dear House, In 2023, like the previous budgets of the civilian government, we are trying to give almost all areas the additional opportunities that they can manage in a better situation than they did a year ago. Allow me to highlight some of the main areas of this budget proposal and to inform you of their situation. I'll start with the support of the families. The budget also prioritises support for Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing in the current exceptional situation. For this reason, next year the amount of family policy spending will increase by HUF 450 billion. For this purpose, HUF 3225 billion will be available in 2023, i.e. three and a half times as much as in 2010. This also means that Hungary's best interests in supporting families are in proportion in the European Union. So next year, more than HUF 370 billion will be spent on maintaining tax and tax benefits for families, family taxation, personal income tax exemption for women with at least four children, and the benefit of first-wives, HUF 155 billion for those under the age of 25. A HUF 490 billion framework serves the continuation of the home creation programme. The home renovation aid scheme, the village CSOK and the tax refund scheme for housing construction, the purchase of a new apartment, the renovation of a residential building will also continue. Families having children or raising them may continue to benefit from a family home-building discount, with support for the repayment of mortgage loans for housing purposes. In addition, we will continue to increase the cost of care and care for children in recognition of the efforts of home care providers. The second large area is the protection of pensioners. The protection of families is also closely linked to the appreciation of pensioners. The civilian government considers it a top priority to ensure the value of pensions, as we bear in mind that pensioners should also benefit from favourable economic results and should be given special protection in difficult situations. In line with these considerations, we will spend HUF 4900 billion on pensions next year. As is already known by everyone, we have accelerated the recovery of the 13th month pension, which was abolished by the left in 2009, and we have paid the full monthly amount to the right holders. This will, of course, remain next year and pensions will continue to rise to the extent of inflation. The institution of the pension premium will also remain, so that older people can benefit from the results of economic growth. In 2023, the government increased by 4.1 percent to HUF 25 billion to pay the pension premium. The government continues to provide women with 40 years of entitlement with the possibility to take retirement benefits below the age limit. The central budget will provide HUF 372 billion in 2023. We will also keep the promise made in 2010 to protect the real value of pensions. This can also be seen from the data: pensions will increase by 67,6 percent between 2010 and 2023, taking into account the planned 5.2 percent pension increase for the future. The purchasing power of pensions also improves by about 20 percent, taking into account the 13th month pension. Finally, the government also supports older people who have reached retirement age but continue to work. For them, we will continue to maintain the social contribution tax and contribution exemption of pensioners' income in 2023. In the Pension Insurance Fund chapter, HUF 300 million can be used for retirement pensions on a fair basis in 2023, and HUF 900 million can be used for the equity-based pension increase, i.e. both are HUF 100-100 million higher than this year, 2022. Allow me to say a few words from the defense area. One of the priority areas of the 2023 budget is security. For this purpose, there will be 50 percent, 460 billion HUF more resources for this purpose next year. This means that defence spending increases more than six times compared to 2010 to HUF 1375 billion. Law enforcement spending is over HUF 965 billion next year, which is about HUF 517 billion and more than double the increase compared to 2010. It's the area of health. We also pay particular attention to health developments, and the aim is a modern, the XXI. Developing an efficient supply system capable of responding to the challenges of the 20th century. So we want to spend some HUF 2670 billion on these purposes next year. This amount is HUF 1470 billion higher than the last submitted budget of the left-wing government in 2010. In 2023, the government spends more than 120 percent more on health care than in 2010. The agreement with the Hungarian Medical Chamber also plays a major role in this growth. We therefore intend to maintain this agreement. The most important expenditure in health insurance benefits is medical-preventive benefits. For this purpose we have allocated HUF 2254 billion, which is HUF 131 billion more in this case than in the 2022 budget. This surplus will cover in particular the wage development programme of health professionals and women's protection workers, as well as the new health wage increase programme launched in 2021. Sources 2023 also allow additional funding for measures to improve health care that have already started, planned developments and enlargements. We will also raise the budget for drug support by about HUF 22 billion. Overall, we will spend some 156 billion forints more on the financial benefits of health insurance. In addition, the Healthy Budapest programme will be continued. In this context, we have also allocated domestic and EU funds to the development of health benefits in the metropolitan and Pest counties, and to the infrastructure renewal of the institutions. In addition, the bill provides the source for, among other things, public health tasks, the continuation of health screening tests and the acquisition of vaccines. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to take part in the field of education. The funds allocated to the area will be close to HUF 2380 billion next year. This represents an increase of more than HUF 933 billion compared to 2010. The primary and secondary education expenditure will increase by nearly HUF 100 billion next year compared to this year. Allow me to also address developments in the field of higher education. Some of the higher education institutions have gradually shifted from 2019 to a new form of operation and funding. Foundation operation improves the efficiency of institutions, strengthens the stability of their farming and also helps them adapt to the needs of the economy. The budget provides significant additional support for the performance-based funding system of model-changing higher education institutions introduced in 2021. Model-shifting universities in this funding system will not only receive support for the performance of their higher education tasks. We also provide support for their closely related research, artistic activities and the development of their infrastructure. [[8.30]] Public scholarship training will continue to be provided at model-shifting universities, and teachers will receive performance-based, increased wages. It will be just this year and next year when 15-15 percent wage development is being made, which has already been covered by the government for the institutions. With this new system, long-term, predictable operation is ensured, which will make a major contribution to increasing the competitiveness of universities not only at home, but also at home, as they compete with each other here, but also at international level. Dear House, The recognition of the work of public service workers is also reflected in the continuous increase in wages. Every year, the government is making targeted wage increases in the public sector, so this year, too, there have been extremely large wage developments. As I have already mentioned, the wage development of doctors and workers has continued, the wages of social and cultural workers have increased by 20 percent, in higher education by 15 percent, in the field of justice by 13 percent, in the case of teachers, law enforcement and defence professionals, in the case of government officials by 10 percent, in the case of law enforcement and defence workers, and in the case of employees of the National Tax and Customs Office by 5 percent. The 2023 budget will continue these increases, ensuring that all wage developments have been achieved and that the medical and professional wage increases continue. The highest rate of wage growth in health has been achieved compared to 2010. The amount of funding for health wages will increase more than fourfold next year compared to 2010. In 2023 there will be around HUF 816 billion more resources, with a total of more than HUF 1086 billion for healthcare workers than in 2010. So I would like to emphasise once again: this is a fourfold increase in recent years. Based on the medical wage increase programme started in 2021, by 2023 an initial resident's initial salary of HUF 255 thousand will rise to 687,000, while a specialist with 40 years of professional experience will increase to HUF 525,000 for a basic salary of HUF 2 million,380,000. Of course, the rules of the budget will also ensure that wage increases during the year are covered in 2023. Dear House, Allow me to include the budgetary part of EU relations in a few sentences. For EU grants, the financial period 2014-2020 will end in 2023. As a result, only a third of the expenditure is linked to these programmes, but their role in the development of revenue remains significant, since they account for more than half of it. We plan to pay nearly HUF 600 billion for the Restoration and Resistance Instrument programmes in 2023. Our negotiations with the European Commission are at the final stage, and our aim is to speed them up as quickly as possible. We see that the agreement will be available by the end of the year, and that will not depend on the Hungarian government. The programmes of the EU budget cycle 2021-2027 are also underway, with the planned expenditure already exceeding HUF 1670 billion in 2023. As there is no strong Hungarian economy without a strong countryside, I have to mention rural development funds within the EU funds, which we have raised to 80% in the new programming period. With this, Hungary is uniquely ensuring the highest level of support that can be given to the development of rural economies. The new structure and the previous CAP strategy plan, which is fundamentally different from the rural development programme, will start in 2023, with a total of HUF 450 billion spent on rural development programmes in 2023. The budget accounts for the total payment of HUF 3400 billion for the programmes of the two EU cycles and for the receipt of over HUF 2000 billion of EU revenue. In parallel, Hungary contributes HUF 604 billion to the EU budget. EU funds will also be complemented this year by direct non-budget agricultural subsidies, the planned spending of which is HUF 511 billion. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few more words about the funding of municipalities. You recall that between 2011 and 2014, we took over the debt previously accumulated by the municipalities, which amounted to some HUF 1369 billion, and we created a regulation that prevented debt from being re-indebted. The local government's system of tasks and funding has been able to demonstrate its effectiveness in recent years, and the resources adapted to this will be fully available for the future. In order to support the operation of municipalities, the bill includes HUF 969 billion, which is HUF 95 billion higher than the budget for 2022. The government provides budgetary support to municipalities for additional expenditure resulting from this year's increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and the wage increases in each sector. Next year, programs to support local government investments, the "Modern Cities" programme and the "Hungarian Village" programme will continue. In addition, there is considerable funding available to municipalities from EU programmes, with a total value of more than HUF 600 billion. As far as business tax is concerned, with the growth of the economy, local government sales of business tax will increase significantly, and this will increase the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the amount of the local government solidarity contribution, but to a much lower extent than the surplus of business tax revenue. All in all, municipalities can manage some HUF 3697 billion in the following year, with a central budget of HUF 969 billion. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, I thank the Budget Council for its work and its opinion. According to this, the bill complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law. The State Audit Office also carried out its audit and examined in detail the design documents and the draft budget. The opinion of the Council and the Court of Auditors confirm that a well-founded bill can be discussed by Parliament. I would also like to thank the leaders and staff of both organisations for their work in the course of the opinion and monitoring of the draft. Dear Parliament, To sum up: The Government of Hungary, as it has undertaken, will also protect the country's security, the Hungarian people and families, the results of the reduction of rent, jobs and pensions in a prolonged war situation. We protect progress, build reserves, and reduce risks. Family support will continue next year, and the 13th month pension will remain, which will continue to rise according to inflation. We will preserve one million new jobs since 2010 and support corporate investment, as we continue to keep the tax on labour at a low level. Despite the challenges of an unstable international environment, we are keeping the economy on a growth path, which is not only about catching up, but also about achieving a better position in the global economy, and we have drawn up next year's draft budget law accordingly. In view of this, I would ask you to discuss and accept Hungary's draft budget law for 2023. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-22-4	I thank the Minister for his speech. Dear Parliament, The opinion of the State Audit Office is presented by the President and the Vice-President in a total timeframe of 30 minutes. I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office. [[8.40]]
u2022-06-22-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Secretary of State Ladies and Gentlemen! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President of the Budget Council, In compliance with its legal obligation, the State Audit Office expressed its opinion on the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2023. The State Audit Office has, for years, carried out the same assessment of the key appropriations of the draft budget law according to the same methodology, and has examined whether the draft law complies with the statutory obligations. The State Audit Office intends to assist Parliament in its decision-making by pointing out the possible shortcomings and untreated risks of the draft budget law, as they are still possible to remedy until the adoption of the law. I predict that Parliament has little to do in this area, as in recent years, because the bill complies with the legal requirements. The detailed evaluation will be presented by Vice-President Holman Magdolna. In my expo, I would like to put the Court's opinion in a broader perspective. I share the expo with Vice-President in order to separate the rigorous evaluation part and the presentation of the broader context. Why did we see this as practical? As stated in the opinion in writing, the State Audit Office is carrying out an assessment of the bill on the assumption that the macroeconomic projections set by the government are met. In a stable global economy environment, it is self-evident that the State Audit Office, which is not responsible for producing forecasts, considers the government projections as appropriate and bases its assessment on this. In today's and next year's extremely uncertain circumstances, as the Minister has specifically discussed, the question rightly arises, however, whether the Court of Auditors should not take this many uncertainties into account when preparing an evaluation of the bill. I can reassure those who want to ask this question that the Court of Auditors has not only taken account of it but has specifically analysed the risks to the implementation of the 2023 budget in recent months. He analyzed it because it's a legal obligation. On the basis of this analytical work, I would like to make some thoughts, perhaps a recommendation, on dealing with uncertainties and to share them with you. I'd like to start with a story. During a crisis management course of leadership training, the audience was asked what should the leader do if suddenly everything becomes uncertain and there is no certain point in the environment? The correct answer to this question is that the leader should be the commissioner. The leader must also show firmness in this situation, for if he too is unsure, his organization will easily be in chaos. This is a great leadership challenge, because not only must the driver maintain the appearance of firmness, but the leader must really seek the best possible way, not the easiest way, but also a way that includes the possibility of manoeuvring. Why did I tell you this story? Because, in this uncertain world political and global economy situation, good governance, i.e. the functioning of a well-managed state, is the best way of identifying the best possible way to adopt next year's budget law as soon as possible. It is necessary to fix a public budget, which is also a point of adjustment for other economic operators, but also provides room for manoeuvre for fiscal policy to adapt, if necessary, to an economic situation that is different from projected. One of the most important messages of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 is that in 2022 there is no economic crisis and it would be unreasonable and even unreasonable to prepare for an economic crisis by 2023. Even in the first quarter of this year, the momentum of a successful economic recovery after a coronal virus epidemic resulted in an economic increase of 8.2 per cent. Due to the changed conditions, this dynamic cannot be maintained, but the potential for growth of more than 4 percent is still in the Hungarian economy. This is not the optimism of the treasury, but the fact that the high investment rate remained after 2019, and the investments made at that time are now growing. It is also encouraging that the investment activity of companies has not been broken this year. According to the projections of Hungarian and international organisations preparing forecasts, GDP growth is expected to increase by 2.6-5 percent in Hungary in 2023. In line with this, the draft budget law plans for 2023 with 4.1 percent economic growth. The economic prognosis does not account for the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian war, in our view rightly, as it would require a completely different budget. In the event of a war emergency, the government is otherwise authorised to do so. At the same time, the creation of the Defence Fund and the increase of defence spending to 2 percent of GDP will serve to strengthen Hungary's defence, while at the same time strengthening the country's security. The draft budget law addresses external risks through the creation of reserves, which, according to our assessment, are sufficient to address the risks that are currently quantifiable. The bill does not contain any reserve projections in the event that macroeconomic developments are significantly less favourable than projected and therefore present negative risks to the development of the budget deficit. At the same time, the projected reduction in the sovereign debt ratio by 2.3 percentage points represents an implicit reserve for the application of the sovereign debt rule, as the sovereign debt rule would be met even if the planned government debt was increased by 2.4 per cent of GDP. In the case of economic growth that is more favourable than projected, the draft bill, adopting the initiative of the Budgetary Council, provides that the resulting additional revenue should be used to improve the budgetary balance. This means that in a broad range of economic growth, ranging from 2.4 percentage points to 5-6 percentage points, fiscal policy can remain unchanged, and thus it is a really stable adjustment point for households, businesses and even for budgetary bodies. Our analysis also concluded that the solutions to the current and expected problems are not expected from holding back the economy, but from accelerating improvements that increase energy efficiency, increase security of supply and at the same time enhance long-term sustainability, which contribute to economic growth. The reduction in the cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem in 2023 compared to the year 22 makes it possible to improve the balance of the domestic development budget by more than HUF 1500 billion in addition to the zero balance of the operating budget. Restraining investment in the budget will not only improve the fiscal balance, but also contribute to reducing inflation by reducing overheating and high import demand for investment, thereby helping monetary policy efforts to curb inflation and improve the external trade balance. It is important that investments that contribute directly less to economic growth will be rescheduled in the first place, while investments that directly support economic growth and modernisation will continue. [[8.50]] Deferring previously planned investments could also contribute to improving their preparedness, which could lead to savings in both investment and operational matters. Dear House, In conclusion, it is also appropriate to use virtue from need in the case of central investments. The planned deficit of the EU development budget is growing by more than HUF 700 billion compared to this year. Experience in the current EU financial cycle shows that the advance of EU funds has contributed to speeding up economic growth, while the resulting temporary increase in public debt has not been a heavy burden on the central budget. However, the financing of public debt has been significantly increased today, which should also be taken into account in taking advance. There is a further risk that agreements which constitute a condition for the receipt of Union revenue for the new programmes have not yet been reached. It is hoped that by the time next year's budget is implemented, the agreements will be signed. However, if these risks are maintained or partially maintained or risks occur in other areas and balance improvement measures are needed, the risks could also be mitigated by tightening the conditions for the advance payment of EU revenue and by prioritising the advance. While imposing strict conditions on advance payments for the highly imported development of beneficiaries outside the government sector would reduce the increase in government debt, it would also have a positive impact on the balance of payments balance. Consequently, the high planned deficit in the European Union's development budget can also be seen as a kind of reserve which, if necessary, can be mobilised in a selective way by tightening the advance rates. The establishment of the Retirement Fund and its eligibility as an open budget from top to bottom will provide an adequate margin for keeping household rents at a low level, which is an important tool for preserving social peace. It is also useful because the remaining retail purchasing power encourages household consumption, which can also be an important factor for economic growth next year. At the same time, less favourable developments in energy prices than projected may require a substantial excess of HUF 670 billion. In this case, this would have to be compensated for by other measures. And this is where I draw attention to the fact that the public institutions are directly affected by the drastic increase in overhead costs, so I must highlight and focus on the exercise of responsible management behaviour by the leaders of all public money-using organisations in the future, i.e. they must further improve the proper, regular and effective management, management and management work. Dear Parliament, Despite the planned improvement in the sovereign debt ratio by 2.3 percentage points, the government debt will increase by nearly HUF 4000 billion, and interest expenditure will increase by almost 1.5 times compared to last year's achievement. In this situation, it is particularly important that the interest paid be returned as much as possible to the circle of the Hungarian economy, which requires a further increase in the share of domestic funding. The bill only expects modest improvements in this respect. A greater increase in the share of public funding may be appropriate. This could be used to further facilitate access to sovereign debt in mailboxes, in Treasury branches and on online platforms. In addition to green bonds, it would be appropriate to broaden the supply of sovereign debt by stockpiling other public tasks, increasing energy efficiency, road, rail construction, information technology developments, developing state digitalisation with targeted funding bonds. A further task is to review and competitiveise the yield levels of public sovereign debt over different periods of time, thus focusing on longer-term savings. It is necessary to assess the savings behaviour, needs of retail customers and try to adapt the supply of sovereign debt to this. It seems to be related to the implementation of the budget, but this is the case, since interest expenditure is expected to exceed 3 per cent of GDP in 2023, and consequently a few percentage points increase in the share of public funding can make a significant contribution to improving the balance of payments and thus strengthening the base of the budget if it is to the detriment of the share of foreign investment. On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 not only creates the appearance of security in an extremely precarious situation, but also gives sufficient room for manoeuvre and resilience to ensure that, in uncertain circumstances, the executives of the budget adapt to the risks arising in a resilient manner while complying with the public debt rule. Of course, this does not mean that it cannot be improved until the fiscal law is adopted. The second part of the Court's exposé, which I give the floor to Vice-President Holman Magdolna, also draws the attention to some of the possibilities of this. I thank you for your kind attention. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-22-6	Thank you, Mr President, and I give the floor to Mrs Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the State Audit Office. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-7	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, During the opinion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023, the State Audit Office of Hungary sought the following two questions in accordance with the legal mandate: whether the draft law was drawn up in accordance with the legal requirements; whether the revenue and expenditure appropriations included in the bill are well-founded; and whether revenue appropriations can be met. In addition, the question of whether the sovereign debt rule is fulfilled was the subject of an opinion. Based on the assessment of the SAO, I can give you a short answer to the first question. The process of preparing and drawing up the draft budget law for 2023 was regular, and the bodies managing the chapter carried out the planning tasks properly. The drafting of the bill was in line with the legal requirements. The bill has not yet included chapter justifications until the opinion has been drawn up, nor has a 50-year forecast taken into account the demographic trends and impacts of the Pension Insurance Fund's revenues and expenditures been presented. The documents have since been submitted by the rapporteur. The assessment of the answer to the second question was carried out by the State Audit Office, taking into account the legislation in force during the period covered by the opinion and the legislative proposals submitted to Parliament by 7 June 2022 and the methodology that has been unchanged for years. On the basis of the methodology, the SAO assessed the key appropriations of the draft budget law during the presentation of the opinion. The revenue and expenditure appropriations selected for the evaluation exceeded 93% of the total amount of revenue under the bill and 89 percent of the total expenditure. As a result of the evaluation of the documents provided and used as evidence, the classification of key appropriations may be justified, partially justified, unfounded or risky. Appendix I to the opinion gives a concise summary of the methodology used, which is available to all interested parties on the SAO's website. It is important to stress that the evaluation is always carried out on the basis of the documents provided and of credible information that can be otherwise known. These include, for example, legislative proposals submitted to Parliament. On the basis of what has been said, it is important to point out that the assessment set out in the Court's opinion reflects the state of a given date, which is 15 June. The merits of appropriations classified in the opinion as partially justified or unfounded may be improved if they are supported by appropriate calculations by the rapporteur or if the proposed legislation is adopted. [[9.00]] The SAO considered the macroeconomic prognosis set out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, which is in line with Hungary's Convergence Programme for 2022-2026 to be an appropriate basis for planning the budget for 2023. The SAO thus assessed the appropriations that depended on the evolution of macroeconomic indicators, such as inflation or the rate of wage increases, in line with the assumption that the actual evolution of economic developments would be close to what was foreseen in the bill's prognosis. Thus, it did not quantify the risk inherent in the development of economic developments other than the prognosis for tax and contribution revenues or for pension expenditure. I would like to present the ratings according to the evaluation after these are put forward. Of the revenue appropriations for the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023, 84 appropriations were considered as decisive appropriations. 95.8 percent of these amounts are well-founded, 4.1 percent are partially well-founded and 0.1 percent are not well-founded. The achievement of 0.1 per cent of the principal revenue appropriations is risky. The risk amounts to HUF 27.8 billion, a detailed list of which is included in the opinion. These appropriations may be justified upon completion of the supporting calculations. It should be pointed out that the most important central revenue appropriations in the budget, such as the general income tax and personal income tax, are all well-founded. In the case of corporate tax, a planned increase of HUF 40 billion has not yet been supported by legislation, the remaining 95 percent of the planned revenue has been assessed as well. Of the expenditure appropriations for the bill, 216 appropriations were considered to be decisive. 95.1 percent of these amounts are well-founded, 4.4 percent partially well-founded, 0.5 percent unfounded. 0.3 per cent of the key expenditure appropriations carry a risk for the performance of public tasks. Our specific list is set out in the opinion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in connection with the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Taking this into account, we identified a risk of HUF 100 billion. At the same time, it should be pointed out that there is a risk of keeping the budget at an appropriate level, that the ratio of 49,2 per cent of the total amount of expenditure appropriations for 2023 to the appropriations which may depart from the appropriations without amendment. The planning of central reserves is well founded. Reserves provide sufficient resources to address expenditure risks for exceptional measures, investment, investment preparation, epidemiological and energy price increases compensatory tasks. The amount of the reserve, calculated without the provision, is nearly HUF 650 billion, which provides cover for the management of the risk of less than HUF 130 billion quantified by the SAO. The revenue and expenditure appropriations of the Pension Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund are well-founded. The expenditure of the Pension Insurance Fund shall include, inter alia, the planned increase in pensions at the rate of inflation with regard to the 13th month pension benefit, as well as the coverage of the pension premium. The planned amount of revenue and expenditure related to the debt service is well-founded; foreign financing will have a greater role in 2023. Within the Defence Fund chapter, the payment of financial institutions and the financial transaction fee and insurance tax may be justified by the completion of the underlying calculations. Within the Rezsivédvédelmi Fund chapter, the central expenditure of the Rezsivédvédelmi Fund may be justified by the completion of the supporting calculations. Of the tax revenues planned for the source of the Fund's expenditure, the mining fee is well founded. Payments in the energy sector may be justified once the underlying calculations have been completed. The revenue and expenditure appropriations of the National Employment Fund, with the exception of two, are justified. The revenue and expenditure related to public property, with the exception of an allocation of expenditure, shall be justified. Revenue and expenditure related to the National Land Fund are well-founded; appropriations for the central budget support of local authorities are also well-founded. The SAO has several significant government programs, such as the Hungarian village, the programme. Modern Cities, developments in the capital, road and rail development, the energy and climate policy modernisation system, economic development tasks, Paks II. Zrt. In the case of the capital increase and the project Liget Budapest, the answer was to the question that the funds related to the implementation of the objectives of the plans and programmes were designed by the responsible wallets in the bill of 2023. For all the programmes, we have been able to answer the question. The lack of government sector, calculated according to the EU methodology, is 3.5 percent of nominal GDP planned for 2023. This is not against the law, as in 2023 there is no need to apply the requirement of the Stability Act that the deficit in the government sector should not exceed 3 per cent of GDP. Finally, I would like to highlight the assessment of the SAO's opinion that, on the basis of the bill, the legal requirements relating to the development of public debt have been met. The bill contains a reduction of 2.3 percentage points in the sovereign debt ratio compared to the end of 2022. This complies with the government debt rule laid down in Article 36 (5) of the Fundamental Law and the requirements of the Stability Act. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] The government debt rule and the requirements of the Stability Act provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties.)
u2022-06-22-8	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for your contribution, and I am now giving the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2022-06-22-9	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Minister, Thank you for the opportunity to give the opinion of the Fiscal Council orally on the draft budget law for 2023. The Council set up and published its opinion on the draft bill for the Government at its meeting on 3 June 2022. The Government has provided a meaningful response to this, which I will address later. The Board has also examined the merits of the draft budget from the point of view and unity of its mandate; it has analysed its macroeconomic background, revenues and expenditure in terms of sustainability of short and longer-term equilibrium requirements and the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule. In doing so, the Commission proposed to the European Council, in 2023, to maintain the general discharge clause on EU-level budgetary rules in view of the unprecedented increase in energy prices and ongoing disruptions in supply chains, increased uncertainty about economic prospects and downward risks. Dear Parliament, During the last two years, the Council, in its opinion on the budget, had to take account of the exceptional circumstances caused by the coronal virus epidemic and the risks posed by the emergency. Fortunately, when preparing the 2023 budget, these had little to do with, but with new risks. The Council reviewed the actual macroeconomic and public finances and expected macroeconomic and public finances for 2021, the background, the base of which, during the evaluation of the 2023 central budget. [[9.10]] For all three years, it relied on the related analyses of the National Bank of Hungary and the State Audit Office of Hungary, and also on the evaluation of the requested Hungarian research institutes and international organisations and known market experts, taking into account the provisions of the Convergence Programme of Hungary for 2022-2026. Please allow me to take a brief look at the macroeconomic and public finances processes for 2021. In 2020, the coronal virus epidemic hijacked the Hungarian economy from a balanced and strong growth path, but as a result of fiscal and monetary measures taken to restart the economy, it was already possible to achieve pre-epidemic performance during the year 2021 and to show an annual increase of 7.1 percent. The government deficit and government debt management were also successful in 2021. The result-based deficit was more favourable than expected, and the rate of 6.8 percent in GDP was 1 percentage point better than in the previous year. This was due to higher economic growth than anticipated, the resulting overall increase in revenue and, in particular, the end-of-year expenditure reduction. The impact was also reflected in the government debt-to-GDP ratio, which declined by 2.8 percentage points to 76.8 percent by the end of the year. The Council considered the stability results for 2021 particularly in the light of the fact that the economic consequences of the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the sanctions imposed in response rewrite the Hungarian economic path in 2022. However, last year's recovery is a solid basis for addressing new challenges. Dear House, The Council also analysed the expected developments in 2022 as a direct base for the 2023 budget. The government calculated an economic growth of 4.7 percent in 2022 in the planning of the 2023 budget. This is slightly higher than the projections of the relevant international financial institutions for this year's expansion of the Hungarian economy. Government expectations are supported by a number of factors. The ability of our unbroken country to attract capital. Our investments are high in terms of GDP: 27.1 percent in 2021 was the second in the European Union ranking. The increase in performance of the first months of the year confirmed the optimists. All sectors contributed to this, mostly industry and market services. Our economic growth generates strong labour demand. Between January and March 2022, the average number of employees amounted to 4 million 674,000, which was 107,000 more than in the same period of the previous year. Meanwhile, the number of public workers was down by 10,000, and the unemployment rate fell to 3.7 percent. The increase in consumption was also supported by large wage dynamics. During the first four months of the year, the cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem, although revenue was well achieved, reached more than four-fifths of the annual appropriations. Most of the expenditure was paid for pensions for the 13th pension as a whole, as well as for medical-preventive benefits; the latter was almost equal in scale to the transfer of family income tax. The Council considered that public finance management in 2022 was highly exposed to external circumstances and that many uncertainties test its resilience. In order to maintain deficit indicators planned for this year, the government debt-to-GDP ratio should be reduced from 76,8 per cent at the end of 2021 to 76,1 per cent by the end of 2022. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In more detail on the budget for 2023, I would like to point out, above all, that there is no substantive difference between the draft presented by the Council and the bill submitted. Neither the cash flow deficit of the central subsystem nor the deficit in the government sector has changed, and the nominal amount of projected government debt and the ratio of GDP remain unchanged. Thus, the opinion of the Fiscal Council also applies to the bill submitted to Parliament. The Council examined, in particular, the elements of the macroeconomic path when assessing the merits of the 2023 budget. It concluded that the draft budget law estimates an economic growth of 4.1 per cent in line with the known domestic and international forecasts, supported by a 4.3 per cent increase in household consumption and a 4.2 per cent increase in gross fixed capital formation. In particular, investments in the competitive sector and developments from domestic and EU sources can keep the investment rate above 27%, which can make a significant contribution to the further development of the domestic economy. In addition to the historically tight labour market environment, the number of employees may increase by 0.3 percent. A 0.4 per cent increase is expected in the competition sector, while no change is expected in the public sector. Due to the gradual depletion of labour reserves, it is also important that labour productivity can continue to improve by 3.8 percent. After strong wage growth in 2022, gross average earnings could increase by 10.2 percent in 2023, including 11,6 percent in the competition sector and 5.5 percent in the fiscal sector. As a result of changes in the world economy in foreign trade, barriers to the production process, the impact of the energy crisis and the sanctions policy, exports and imports may increase by only 5.9 percent and 5.5 percent respectively. The pace of consumer price increases is expected to slow down due to government and central bank steps and base effects, with an annual average of 5.2 per cent in 2023 compared to 8.9 per cent in 2022. The Council considers that the expected economic growth can be achieved if the epidemic does not return, the effects of the war conflict will remain in the band known when planning and further deterioration of the external trade balance will be avoided. The Council supported efforts to improve the balance of public finances, i.e. to reduce public debt and deficit-to-GDP. He appreciated the idea that on the revenue side taxes would be adapted to the burden-bearing capacity and that taxes on households and work would not be increased. The Council considered that revenue-side measures were of significant importance in achieving a balance, while spending-side measures could contribute more lastingly and effectively to the improvement of balances. [[9.20]] The implementation of the expenditure-side measures without reducing the incomes of the families was considered necessary by the Council for the credible and sound implementation of the stabilisation. Improved external and internal macroeconomic equilibrium positions can only be achieved as quickly as possible. The Council considered it a correct step to reduce the general government deficit, in other words the government sector's deficit-to-GDP ratio by 6.8 per cent in 2021 and 4.9 per cent in 2022 to 3.5 per cent in 2023. The Board considered the deficit target to be achievable if the macro-economic path is achieved and the projected tax changes are implemented, and expenditure cuts are taken into account. The Panel called for a 3 per cent deficit to be achieved as soon as possible, even though the economic circumstances allow the general government deficit above this level to be allowed by EU and domestic rules in 2023, and that additional revenue from economic growth would not be spent by the budget. Interest expenditure will increase sharply as sovereign debt yields increase and inflation accelerate, reaching 3 percent of GDP by 2023. The so-called primary deficit without it can thus be only 0.5 per cent of GDP. The Council concluded that the planned structural deficit-to-GDP ratio was higher than the so-called ESA deficit of 4.5 percent. As in previous years, this value is greater than 1 per cent of the structural balance of the medium-term budgetary objective. At the same time, it took into account the fact that the structural deficit above the medium-term budgetary objective is also allowed by the European Union and domestic rules by 2023. Since the detailed discharge of the structural balance was not included in the draft, the Council requested that this be included at the time of the submission of the bill. The cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem planned for 2023 will also be significantly reduced: it will be 1.8 percentage points lower than in the previous year's allocation. In the three-part central subsystem, the balance of the operational part has been zero for the sixth year now, and a cash-flow deficit is created only in the stockpiling and the EU budget. The Council recommended to the Government the possibility to reduce the amount of pre-financing by pre-financing for the development of cohesion and rural development programmes in 2021-2027, with stricter conditions of preparation, ranking and, instead of pre-financing, by encouraging borrowing beyond the year, thereby reducing the planned deficit of the EU development budget. It considered it appropriate to use the amount thus released to increase the reserves. To some extent, the management of a number of risks to the achievement of budgetary targets will be helped. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Council, the revenue and expenditure appropriations for the central budget of 2023 are consistent with the expected and planned macroeconomic and public finances processes. Revenue increases significantly between tax revenues in relation to both the 2022 allocation and its expected achievement. In addition to the largest items, such as consumption-proportional sales tax, wage-proportional personal income tax and social contribution tax, and corporate tax, growth will be significantly driven by the payments made by companies in the sectors where significant income has been generated by market developments. These include income tax on energy suppliers, mining fee, special tax on financial entities, financial transaction tax, insurance tax, telecommunications tax, and airline tax. The Council indicated, on the one hand, that the implementation of revenue appropriations would require the completion of the macroeconomic path on which the planning was based. On the other hand, since the draft had been omitted, it required the presentation of the impact of the tax revenue measures at the time of the submission of the bill, in line with the amendment of the tax laws. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2023, separate funds were set up in the budget for the implementation of the two main priorities, as we heard, the Rezief Protection Fund and the Defence Fund. In addition to the so far defence budget support, special taxes create the source of these funds. While the previous contributes, in addition to current trends in world market and domestic price increases, to the protection of prices, the latter contributes to the proper management of security policy challenges due to the war environment, and otherwise to the fulfilment of obligations arising from federal and international contracts. The draft budget continues to give priority to the objectives of improving the situation of family protection and home creation, as well as the income situation of pensioners, and it is also a priority to strengthen law enforcement and to help refugees. As I mentioned, the reduction of expenditure in the reduction of the budget deficit is also significant, but it was not included in the draft bill. The Council requested to be presented when the proposal was submitted. The chapter in the draft opinion of the Council did not correspond to the new government line-up. The council also proposed a replacement until the bill was tabled. The Council concluded that, following the temporary increase, the declining trend in the sovereign debt ratio and the sovereign debt ratio will remain stable and will continue to decrease further to 2023 following the fall in 2021 and 2022, this time significantly by 2.3 percentage points to 73.8 percent. Thus, the draft budget law of 2023, I stress, complies with the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law and the relevant requirement of the Stability Act. The large reduction is also remarkable because these standards can be met in less favourable circumstances. At the same time, the Council noted that the nominal government debt increased significantly, above HUF 1600 billion, in excess of the cash flow deficit, for which no justification was found. He also considered it necessary to replace it. The Council assessed that, based on the view of the 2022-26 convergence programme, the government debt-to-GDP ratio could decrease to 63 per cent by the end of the period. The Council also agreed that public debt management would continue to maintain in 2023 the favourable structure achieved in recent years, the low share of foreign exchange debt, the stability of the public's participation in the financing of public debt. [[9.30]] It welcomed the continuation of the 2020 target of increasing and increasing the average residual maturity of government debt. Dear Parliament, The Government's response to the Council's opinion is included in the annex to the proposal, so I will comment on it very briefly, but I note that the Government has given a meaningful response and in many respects appreciated the Council's comments. The Council's proposal to achieve a deficit-to-GDP level of 3 per cent as soon as possible was complemented by the legislative text. Therefore, if the overall economic performance of the economy is to be increased above 4.1 per cent, the revenue surplus resulting from the excess increase should be used to reduce the deficit and thus the public debt. In other words, faster growth than assumed by the government could automatically result in lower deficit levels, regardless of whether EU rules are expected to allow for higher deficits in 2023. At the request of the Council, the government has replaced the detailed discharge of the structural deficit. The Council's objection to the absence of a presentation of the effects of the tax revenue increase measures notified on 26 May 2022 in 2023 was that the tax changes and the details thereof would be included in the tax legislative amendments and that the draft fiscal law would form an integral part of the tax legislative amendments. In the absence of a description of a significant reduction in expenditure by the Council in the reduction of the general government deficit, the government replied that public investment was reviewed on the expenditure side of the central budget during the determination of individual appropriations and that it was decided to postpone several investments that had not yet entered the export stage, because there was a high level of government stockpiling expenditure in international comparison, as well as a high level of retail and corporate investment. Similarly, the government has undertaken a review of some of the overall significant non-investment and stockpiling expenditures. On the Council's remark that the draft heading does not correspond to the new government line-up, the Government pointed out that the chapter order, appropriations and provisions of the proposed budget law for 2023 already reflect the new governance structure. The Council's claim to reduce the financing burden of the State that it is appropriate to stage the pre-financing of EU development resources, to encourage the borrowing of beneficiaries instead of pre-financing, was not accepted and disputed by the government. According to its reply, advances paid to public sector beneficiaries such as public companies and municipalities should be kept in an account with the Hungarian Treasury until their actual use. Thus, the advance does not have a direct effect on the deficit in terms of results or on the state's financing needs. It therefore considers that it would not entail a direct improvement in the state's budgetary positions, but would delay the implementation of the supported projects. The Council's finding that nominal government debt could rise significantly above the cash flow deficit in the draft was justified by the government's involvement in the growth of government debt, in addition to the cash flow deficit of the central budget. In 2023, the budget accounts for a very significant financial reserve pool at the end of the year above HUF 2000 billion, given the uncertainty in non-budget financing needs and funding opportunities. Government debt issued to increase these reserves increases gross nominal government debt beyond deficit. Dear Parliament, At the end of my comment, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and his colleagues for their far-reaching support for the Council's work. I would like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank, the secretariat of the Council, the asked analysts and experts of certain economic institutions for supporting the broad technical basis of the Council's opinion through independent, alternative macroeconomic and public finance model calculations and sensitivity studies. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thanking you for your attention, I wish you good work in discussing the budget bill of 2023 and the related amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-06-22-10	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech and for the work of the Fiscal Council. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. During the discussion of the bill on Hungary's central budget in 2023, the Vice-Presidents of Parliament are expected to participate in the debate. The Members of the Vice-President and of the Members of the Vice-President shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I ask the House, therefore, to contribute to allowing Vice-President Dóra Dúró, János Latorcai, Sándor Lezsák, István Jakab, Vice-President Lajos Oláh to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear House, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor first to Congressman Erik Bánki. Here you go. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-06-22-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would like to begin with a quote from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on the budget. On a forum, Prime Minister once said that if we were looking for the answer to the question of how we could win the Olympic Championship three times in a row in waterball, there was only one explanation: not only that we were the best three times, but that we all believed that we were the best three times. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the 2023 budget, I thought of these ideas because we have to adopt a very serious, challenging budget, not only in a time of economic crisis affecting Europe, but also throughout the world, which ensures that all Hungarians do not have worse positions, and we can even be better than the average. I think that the budget, presented to Parliament by the Minister of Finance, will be in place in all respects, with all the challenges that we have to anticipate in 2023 in such a special year. This budget is a budget for public security and defence. Due to the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war, we are facing record inflation, which will not decrease substantially until the war is over. All we can do in this period is to take measures to protect Hungarian families and to ensure that the price of war is not paid by Hungarian people, not by Hungarian families. [[9.40]] At present, the Hungarian government is the only one in Europe that does not talk about sanctions and war, but about the need for peace, because only peace can bring about stability and peace that will help the economy to return to a stable growth path throughout Europe. The most important objective of the government is to ensure that Hungary stays out of the war, because of the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war, the energy and faulty sanctions policy in Brussels, our most important task is to ensure Hungary's energy supply and to ensure the protection of the overhead cuts, and to speed up the development of the force. For this reason, the budget seeks to strengthen these key objectives with the Rehabilitation and Defence Funds. The fund's income in 2023 is nearly HUF 1450 billion, largely from the extra-profit companies. It is right, as the government has decided, to expect those sectors that have made extra profit in the war situation to contribute to the protection of the country. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families currently pay the most favourable fees throughout the European Union. The aim is to continue to maintain the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population. This is the service of the Rezségvédelmi Fund, to which the government will spend HUF 670 billion in 2023. The Defence Fund also creates the sources of further defence development and strengthens the physical security of our country. The fund's budget will amount to HUF 842 billion next year, so all defence expenditures have reached the 2 percent level of Hungarian GDP for the first time since the change in the system, which, by the way, I note that NATO's expectations to all Member States. There is a need to further strengthen security not only because of war but also because of migration. The global crisis caused by war is expected to launch a new wave of migration to Europe that we have already faced once after 2015. Hungary has been able to rely only on itself to protect the borders, and we believe that this will be no different in the future, and we must therefore also prepare ourselves for this with the resources of the budget. Dear House, Since national governance, Hungary has made an economic turnaround, and we have set the economy on a growth path. Between 2014 and 2019, as the Minister mentioned in his expo, the Hungarian economy grew by 4.1 percent on average annually, while the average economic growth in European countries was 2.1 percent in total. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been able to grow by 2.1 percent a year for five years, which has helped us to catch up on the quality of Western European countries. We have maintained this outstanding growth despite the crisis. As a result of government measures and the economic re-launch after the coronal virus epidemic, growth has reached the 2019 level by the summer of 2021, and we have even achieved a record economic growth of 7.1 percent for the whole of 2021. Thus, the Hungarian economy remains one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. The growth continued in the first half of 2022 and the Hungarian economy expanded by 8.2 percent over the first quarter of 2021. The aim is to continue growth next year, the economic effects of the war and the war can slow down, but the government expects a 4.1 percent increase in next year's budget. In all respects and in all areas, the budget provides the necessary resources for further growth of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the protection of the reduction of rent and the strengthening of Hungary's security, next year's budget will pay particular attention to Hungarian families and pensioners. In 2023 we provide HUF 3225 billion for family support, which is nearly three and a half times higher than in 2010. The Minister also pointed out in his exposé that Hungary provides the highest family support in terms of GDP, which we can all be proud of. The 13th month pension will continue in the following year, pensions will continue to rise in line with inflation, as the government has already undertaken in 2010. In the 2023 budget, HUF 4900 billion is available to finance pensions and pension payments. This, ladies and gentlemen, is 68.6 percent more than in 2010 at the time of the change of government, and what is very important is that we have increased the purchasing value of pensions by more than 20 percent, i.e. real value, compared to 2010. It is important to note here, ladies and gentlemen, that the continued concern of the left about pensioners is very surprising, especially given that socialist government has decided on a number of measures that have been a serious blow to the elderly Hungarian people. Let's see what happened on this front. In 2009, a month's pension was taken from 2.2 million people, and during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments the real value of pensions decreased significantly, with 8 percent during the Gyurcsány government and 6.4 percent during the governance of Bajnai Gordon. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, last year, the civilian government returned the entire 13th month pension, as well as the increases in pensions that followed inflation, as well as pensions that have been paid due to the outstanding performance of the Hungarian economy, as I have just mentioned, increased the real value of pensions by more than 20 percent. We can all be proud of that. Ladies and gentlemen, Our aim remains to maintain high levels of employment, to preserve the nearly one million new jobs created since 2010, and to help create further jobs. Therefore, employment-related employers' and employees' tax levels remain low, and the State supports investment in enterprises that create job creation as well as in terms of efficiency and added value. In line with the expected performance of the economy, net average earnings may increase by more than 10 per cent in 2023. Dear Parliament, In order to protect Hungarian families from the extra costs caused by the war, the government introduced extraordinary price-stop measures, which curb price increases and help to reduce inflation by 5-6 percent in Hungary compared to the Central European region, without the introduction of price-stops. The government's previous family protection measures, such as the personal income tax refund for children, the personal income tax exemption for women with at least four children, which is also unicum in Europe, the retirement of the 13th month pension, and the personal income tax exemption for those under 25 years, a significant increase in the minimum wage and wage increases in the public sector, contribute to maintaining and even strengthening the purchasing power of families. Looking ahead, growth is based on three pillars. In addition to record high employment, significant real wage growth also supports economic growth. Investments in increasing production capacities and technological improvements to improve efficiency will continue to be crucial in the coming years, which play a prominent role in strengthening our country's growth potential. Hungary, with Germany and Denmark, is one of the countries with the highest levels of industrial technology in the sector. Despite the crisis, the exceptionally high investment rate of more than 27 per cent could continue to rise in 2023, thanks to the ability of the domestic economy to attract capital, the attractive corporate environment and the competitive tax system. Ladies and gentlemen, Stability is perhaps the most important virtue of a country's budget. It is important to note here that, bearing in mind predictability and predictability, Parliament is quite rightly discussing this year's next year's budget proposal before the summer break, which, in these extraordinary times, will also provide almost six months of preparation time for everyone to get to know budgetary frameworks and government priorities. The budget thus provides a predictable and predictable basis for maintaining stability in the country, maintaining the economic growth path and improving balance indicators. The Hungarian budget continues to provide significant financial support to finance developments for economic and social purposes, so a number of investments and tasks will continue to be carried out from domestic sources next year. In addition to the domestic resources for some key government tasks and investments, as the Minister said, increasing EU resources can be expected next year. [[9.50]] Since 2010, the national government has not only stabilised the country economically but also financially, restored the balance of the budget and put the government debt on a declining path. The dynamics of this have been contained by the epidemic and the war, but the goals remain unchanged. The decade between 2020 and 2030 is the threat, the uncertainty, the age of wars, with increasing migratory and inflationary pressures and an unprecedented increase in energy prices all over the world. CHAPTER XXI The biggest geopolitical reorganization of the century to date and the global energy and food crisis are threatening external conditions that need to be prepared in time. We believe that next year's budget has also created reserves that will also give the government room for manoeuvre for unexpected changes. We have seen, at the time of the Covid outbreak, how important it was, as Minister said, that Hungary does not only have a stable and strong economy, but that we have created reserves in the budget that the opposition otherwise opposed in 2019 when we adopted the 2020 budget, which gave us a stable basis for responding to unexpected external circumstances. As a result, honourable Members, we have been able to achieve that the global economic crisis caused by the Covid epidemic was among the first of the EU Member States to recover from this crisis, and we have achieved a dynamic growth that, as I have already said, has enabled us to achieve an increase of over 7 percent over the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to address the economic and social consequences of the war, the government's objective for next year's budget is to provide a stable basis for the implementation of government programmes, to guarantee the protection of families, to strengthen the security of our country and to preserve the reduction of the overhead. The draft budget law before us meets these objectives in all respects. I therefore think that everyone can support the budget law with a calm spirit, and I specifically ask my fellow Members to show unity in these difficult times, both on the opposition and on the pro-government side, and not on the political agenda, but on our commitment to society. Thank you very much for listening, and please support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Lajos Szűcs continued his speech by the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-13	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few years, we have had three words for the draft budget: it can be planned, predictable and respected. Now I would like to add a fourth: well-founded. These are the four words that must guide our work and this bill. For a very long time, we have lived by surviving the epidemic caused by Covid and the economic problems involved, and then it can only be better for us. Unfortunately, Covid is still here, and the problems haven't decreased, they've just multiplied. Higher inflation is a natural consequence of the re-launch of the economy, as demand is suddenly rising and consumption is falling short. Investments are also being replaced by economic operators, leading to higher prices. At the same time, at the end of February, the war in our eastern neighbour has dramatically intensified this process, and we are witnessing increases in raw materials and energy prices that have not been experienced for decades, and therefore inflation has also increased significantly. In such uncertain economic and global conditions, the staff of the Ministry of Finance had to draw up next year's budget, which I would also like to thank on behalf of my fellow Members, because they had to do a job that contained a great deal of uncertainty. We always get why the government makes the bill in the middle of the year. I think that this is even more important in the current situation, because not only will it provide preparation for what is expected in the next period, but it could also have created an uncertain situation for economic operators if we had only prepared a draft budget for next year at the end of the year. It should be noted that in this situation, too, what the left has been constantly telling us is that we should have been constantly expecting adjustments and budgetary amendments in this House during the year, and it has not happened that the closing laws have to tie up loose ends such as we remember, that almost a whole new budget has been made with closing accounts in left-wing times. We could also say that the government should not be dragged on a cruise ship because it has only irresponsible consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, In April 2022, the Fidesz-KDNP Federation was once again authorised by two thirds, and the result of this strong mandate to the government is that people have told us exactly what they expect from the new government. People want security, peace for themselves, and they've raised their vote. With this in mind, the government has set two main priorities for security in the future: energy security and defence. Here I would like to reiterate what my fellow Member Erik Bánki said, because Erik has given me the details of this, so I do not want to go into too many repetitions, but I would like to say a few additional words in support of families. I think we can all agree that our greatest value is family, and that we must also support childbearing and child rearing in these extraordinary times. In 2023, the budget provides nearly HUF 3225 billion in support of families, which is HUF 450 billion higher than the amount of funding in the 2022 budget. And if we look at all this compared to 2010, we see that the government will spend nearly three and a half times more than HUF 2290 billion on supporting Hungarian families in 2023. I would like to point out that programmes to support families, such as home-building programmes, family tax incentives and child-eating subsidies, will continue. Both now and next year, the government is holding to its promise that the real value of pensions must also be preserved. The budget resources available for this purpose will be close to HUF 4900 billion next year. The budget of 2023 allocates more than HUF 370 billion to the full payment of the 13th month pension. In addition to the 13th month's benefit, the institution of the pension premium will remain in 2023, so that older people can benefit from the results of economic growth, as the government expects a 4.1 percent increase in the national total product in the draft for 2023 and placed HUF 24.9 billion in the provision for the payment of the pension premium. Maintaining high employment is one of the foundations for keeping economic results, because, as we say, where there is work, there is everything. Where are the siren voices we heard in 2010 in the form of loud smiles and laughter from the opposition as a result of the creation of 1 million new jobs announced on this pulpit? Today we can say that after 12 years more than 1 million jobs have been created, so one of the most important tasks is to retain them and help create additional jobs. [[10.00]] Therefore, employment-related employers' and employees' tax levels remain low, and the State supports corporate investments that create job creation, efficiency and higher domestic added value. In line with the expected performance of the economy, gross and net average earnings are expected to rise to more than 10%. Overall, almost all areas can be managed from several sources in 2023 compared to 2022. In addition to what has been said so far, it should be pointed out that the government will spend more than HUF 200 billion on education and on health care by HUF 100 billion, and that the police spending will be more than HUF 965 billion next year, which has increased by HUF 517 billion compared to 2010, almost twice as much. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the budget, we must also remember its financing aspects. We all know that high inflation unfortunately means higher costs and higher interest rates. Only in 2022 will interest rates increase by HUF 400 billion, and next year the country will have to double its burden. That is why I think it is important that the State continues to be zero in terms of its operation, i.e. the state operates without shortage, the cost of public services can be financed without taking out loans and from operating revenues. This is certainly a very important thing, because when we talk about the country's functioning, this budget is planning only expenditure that it sees as providing revenue, and it is planning only investments that can be expected to happen again. With the budget of 2023, we will protect the results achieved so far, ensure the security of the country and the Hungarian families, and keep the Hungarian economy on a growth path. The Rezségvédelmi és Honvédelmi Fényi Fund allows the Hungarian people not to pay the price of the war, but we are trying to force companies reaching extra profit in war and war. The otherwise irresponsible left, which calls himself responsible, has always sabotaged the Hungarian people, has always been taken away from them, and they are not now in favour of the people and the reduction of the rent, but are protecting the banks and the multinationals. Yesterday we voted on the minimum global tax, which in its vote turned out to be the values that the left would like to keep. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important that both the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council have carried out and carried out in time the investigations which they were responsible for the 2023 budget. It was good to hear from both the Court of Auditors and the Budget Council that they considered the budget planning to be sound, and that, in addition to its uncertainties, they showed support for the draft budget law. This is also important because, compared to recent years, both the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office have been in a position every year since the Orbán government took over the budget preparation in 2010 to have been able to give a substantial and preliminary input into the budget planning and have been able to express its views on the current budgets throughout its implementation. I would also like to thank both the Court of Auditors and the Budget Council for the work that has been done, because the result is that Parliament is able to deal with legislative proposals, it is able to give way to legislative proposals that are sound, predictable, predictable and enforceable. Once again, I would like to tell you the most important numbers. So next year the Hungarian economy is expected to grow 4.1 percent, the deficit target is approaching 3.5 percent, and we would also like to reduce inflation to 5.2 percent. Where is Europe's two-digit inflation and up to 20% inflation? ! The best possible indicator is that both Covid and the global crisis will have an increased deficit target of around 73% of the budget bill. I would also like to say that, despite the failed Brussels sanctions policy, high energy prices and rising inflation, our Fidesz-KDNP does not allow the costs of the war to be charged to the Hungarian people, which is why we consider the draft budget to be justified. I would ask the Fidesz Group and all my fellow Members to discuss the proposal in the 30-hour time frame, to debate a lot with the irresponsible opposition and to accept it at the end. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-22-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of DK is Mr László Varju, who is also speaking here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-15	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Now that a lot of people have told me why you would like this budget to be adopted, I would like to say the other side of this, as well as the shadows that you and my fellow Member have just described as irresponsible. And I will say that this is the responsible attitude, because what you are saying and what you are doing to the Hungarian people and Hungary with this budget is extremely harmful, and I think that this should not be supported. Let me start by summing up what the Democratic Coalition thinks about this budget, also in the form that it is your budget for 2023, the Orbán package with tax increases, a budget that reduces people's benefits and cuts budget expenditure. That's how they try to restore the imbalance you created by building false illusions. They cheated people and took back everything that people thought was theirs for a few months. Next year's budget proves what the Democratic Coalition had predicted before the April elections: if Viktor Orbán remains Prime Minister, brutal cuts will come. You've denied it hand and foot in the election campaign, but now we see it's the truth. The evidence in front of us is called the budget of 2023. This budget is the budget for tax increases and austerity, so it is the austerity Orbán package itself. Before I go into your budget of austerity, it doesn't hurt to clarify what led to this. In the first round of thought, I also call for an analysis by the National Bank of Hungary, which highlights that the sources of extensive economic growth have run out, the end of the era of cheap energy and abundant labour. [[10.10]] You understand what that means, don't you? All their words about the work-based society here in this Parliament were wrong. The success of your many-spoken investors means only that low wage and labour-related workers are thrown to billionaires. But the Hungarians noticed that [[Dr. János Harghitai: And they voted so.]] And emigrated from the country. Therefore, you have decided not only to remove new skin from rich settlement bonds, but to bring in tens of thousands of Vietnamese, Filipino, Mongolian workers, who are otherwise forced to work for minimum wage for 12 hours, these jobs are not controlled, they are sealed in container cities, for example, Kisvárda. While the Czech Republic, Estonia, Slovenia are on the right track towards quality-based competitiveness, Hungary continues to compete on a cost-based basis for investors. Viktor Orbán and Péter Szijjártó sell out our future for buttons. In competitiveness, we have already reached the 18th place among European countries. They have a huge responsibility for this, because seven years of unbroken international economic activity have created an environment where the net minimum wage is 350 euros in Hungary, thus introducing Hungary into the trap of middle income countries. This is your responsibility. The real problem is that you know exactly what you're doing, and you understand what you're doing, but that's not enough, and you're continuing with this budget. There is no institutional development, because then they should act against corruption. By the way, without strengthening the entrepreneurial spirit and creating the conditions for a knowledge-based economy, their convergence programme is not worth as much as the paper on which it may be printed. Moreover, the irresponsible nature of their fear of losing power results in the formation of a twin deficit, which is significant and lasting and entails a reduction in household savings. That's why what they did was so wrong. They are completely wrong when the Orbán government does not take any steps outside the austerity of the retail and small business sector. We've become a country of imbalances and unsustainableness. Based on this, what would you call the government that deliberately misdirected the country with its policy? Why does the Orbán system feel the need to resort to meat-cutting restrictions? Just for the record, I'd like to give you some examples: record-priced euros, weak forints. The euro is 400 forints, even when it has better days, because it is above it. You may remember that in 2008, when a euro cost HUF 274, Viktor Orbán literally said: .The Prime Minister's exchange is the solution to the forint crisis. If you still think so, I'd like to send a message to the Prime Minister. Good-bye. And don't tell me that the war is the cause of this, because there is no other European currency that is beyond such a weakening as the Hungarian forint. The Polish złoty, the Croatian kuna, the Czech crown, thank you very much, are well, only the Hungarian forint lies on its deathbed, thanks to you. I am just reminding you: in 2010, one euro was worth 25.4 Czech kroner, but 24.2 kroner in June 2022. The same for the Croatian Kuna: 7,25 kunas had to be paid for one euro in 2010, 7.5 in June 2022. We can only add this, since in 2010 one euro cost 266 HUF, and now it was 402 HUF in June. But let's go on, the weakest forint in Hungarian history has many consequences. 25 per cent food record inflation: one pound of bread costs 600 forints, one kilo of tomatoes can be bought under a thousand forints, but the price of butter, cheese, dry pasta, pastries, peppers, cucumber is rising at a rapid pace, and there are at least three dozen other basic foods. It is also thanks to you that today a basic shopping is a serious financial test for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. They're the ones they won't say a word about, just the people who are very close to you, but we'll talk about this later. But there's more, because the fuel prices are here. I'll be reminiscing with you again. In 2008, a scandal was made of the cost of 300 forints a litre of fuel. I suppose the Prime Minister's exchange was also seen as the best solution; well, it went well. You are now trying to make it a significant government performance to fill the wells for 480 HUF. This is pathetic, and it shows very well the damage that has been done to this country. Perhaps you should ask in the national consultation that people prefer to refuel for 480 forints or 300 forints, and then be proud of themselves. Let's move on to public debt. Record government debt: HUF 21 000 billion in 2010 and HUF 43 000 billion in 2022. During this period, between 2010 and 2022, an additional EUR 50 billion was spent, essentially HUF 20 000 billion, and I had not yet talked about nationalising the pension savings of HUF 3000 billion. All of this is what you had in place to bring Hungary, not to the wrong path, but to the path of development. We are at 76 per cent of public debt, after you take the loans one by one and hang them around the neck of Hungarian families. The Ministry of Finance report is in our hands, the first quarter; the government's debt increased by HUF 2000 billion in the first quarter alone. Let's go back to the record-weak HUF one more time. I would like to point out that you have taken on foreign exchange loans during deliberate forint weakenings, with a share of 23 percent, i.e. about a quarter of the total government debt. This is what you have said never to have a single euro. It was proclaimed years ago, and they do the opposite. If you didn't do any harm to this country today, this debt would continue to increase because of the falling forint. Weak government has a weak forint. Or don't you think so, fellow Members? This is called a debt trap in which you push Hungary. And it's still not over. One of the most painful items, the issue of EU money, is the EU money that you cannot draw because you have made a corrupt banana republic out of our country. Only the Restoration Fund has HUF 6000 billion of EU money, which we do not receive because of government theft, and we have not yet discussed the sources of the next EU development cycle. You stole until you stopped Brussels, no more money for the fidesz oligarchs. It's too bad the country misses this money, not just the extra-profit-addicted fidesz oligarchs. This is precisely why you decided that next year the Orbán package will be moaning, and in 2023 the budget of austerity will choke the Hungarian families. But let's add: during the period of the Fidesz government, the budgetary processes have become almost completely opaque, and Parliament's controlling role cannot prevail, the guiding nature of the budget that determines economic policy. More than twenty of my letters to the Minister of Finance, written earlier, remained unanswered because, by the way, they were unable to present the details. The adoption of annual budgets in the previous spring, i.e. internationally and earlier in Hungary, about half a year earlier than usual, does not increase, but reduces, unlike declarations. My fellow Member's statement... is exactly the opposite of what you just mentioned. In an economically irrational way, the government has already submitted the next budget in spring, without even accounting for 2021, had to introduce a separate austerity package for 2022, and on this basis it will create a set of paper for 2023, which will otherwise be overruled and modified several times by the government because it has its own competence. [[10.20]] Perhaps this year, too, it exceeds the fact that nearly a hundred amendments have been made in this way. Your spending in 2021 has not yet been accounted for, as I said, and your ongoing disaster-related work in 22 is difficult. I have just mentioned that for this disaster work, a debt increase of HUF 2000 billion has already been carried out. I will start with my detailed criticism by clarifying that you do not save any forints in this budget on your own, and you only want to make people pay the price of your failed economic policy. What did they promise? That the government budget will be reduced by 10 percent. What's in this budget? Cost increase. Fidesz MEPs, you want to spend 11 percent more on bureaucracy than you already have. The same is true of state propaganda: pay more than 10 percent of the budget of MTVA. , 109 700 million forints. So there will also be money to spread government lying, MTVA will also work with more money, although it is undoubtedly one of my favourite areas, where for example, the forger Dániel Papp spends his days and spends more than 100 000 million forints of Hungarian people's money next year. Spreading your lies, excluding or excluding the opposition from public media is the function of this money. But before I go any deeper, let me get this straight. There'll be money for bureaucracy, undersecretaries, relatives, pals, even more than before. And when you say there are no restrictions, you talk about your own life. Yes, there will be no restrictions on the Fidesz elite, there will be government luxury payments, there will be helicoptering and yachting, lobster, goose liver on the table, it will remain on your table and not on the table of Hungarian families. Perhaps the more depressing thing now is that so - called religious expenses increase by 18 percent. I suppose that was what it was all about, to establish this, it was necessary to describe the issue asked by Fidesz home-made to Fidesz in his speech before the agenda with a lot of lies. It's good to know that, according to your own declaration, the situation is so bad that only prayer can help. Now that I have seen that you have left yourselves out of your austerity package, let's talk about those who have actually imposed these austerity measures, because they like to talk a lot about them, the Hungarian families. The Orbán package, which increases household rent, will be paid by the Hungarian families; thanks to your austerity measures, it will increase the overhead of families. After everyone has been encouraged and expected to have a credit card or an account, they will increase the bank costs and the insurance fee that people and families will pay. Do they also cost the price of medicines that are consumed by those who eat them? People and families. They'll pay for it. The Internet tax will be introduced as an increase in overhead, communications, phone expenses will be more expensive because of your additional taxes, these will be paid by people, families. Each flight was ordered to pay each passenger, so it will be paid by the people. Márton Nagy, the Minister of Economic Affairs, who announced restrictions, forgot to deny that Fidesz was after people's money, he literally said that people had a lot of money left in the epidemic. So you know perfectly well that a austerity package that increases household spending is being pushed down the throats of Hungarian families to make people pay for the economic policy that the Fidesz government has failed, the government's actions over the past 12 years. I myself, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, challenge myself to consider the savings of Hungarian families, the family reserves that are hard to save as extra profit. Shame on you for touching people's pockets by talking about extra profit. If you did not represent yourself and the luxury elite of Fidesz, but the Hungarian families, then this would all be the other way around: families would not get restrictions, but, for example, tax cuts. I recommend the DK faction's proposal that the VAT on basic foods and a series of other products should be abolished by the end of the year, with a zero percentage and a permanent 5% from next January. If you're really looking for extra profit, I'd like to offer you some fidesz oligarchs who have become a billionaire in public money, got billions of public money under Covid, and pretty much no income that can't be called an extra profit. Yeah, well, maybe the company's gone now, maybe that's why they can't find it. If you're really looking for extra profit, I'd recommend you pay attention to the tax-free casinos owned by Fidesz billionaires. Somehow they managed to leave them out of the Orbán package, even though they were in a monopoly position at the same time and released their taxes during the epidemic and even gave them state aid even when their employees were laid off. If there is any such thing as extra profit, they have it, but you want to cut down on families, and this is not just for special taxes, but also for the entire budget. There is also a restriction on Hungarian health care, which is already in a state of death. Even though you know that inflation will be at least 10 percent, you won't even increase the amount of money spent on health care by 4 percent. This is significantly below the 5.3 per cent average in the EU and 7 per cent in the EU. With public health spending falling below 4 per cent of GDP, they have reached the lowest level for 26 years. This means that there is still a lower level, you will continue to reduce the Hungarian health care by a quarter of a century. The situation is also colored by the fact that 67-69 percent of healthcare expenditure in Hungary comes from state resources, which is 4 percentage points lower than the European Union and 8 percentage points lower than the average of other Visegrád countries. That basically means that what the state system doesn't cover is being replaced by people in their own pockets. I'll translate: you'll make health pay by cutting public health, and you'll expect people to treat you as a private provider. Whoever gets the money will be able to get better, who doesn't have the money, won't get better. I don't even dare think about what would happen here if Viktor Orbán hadn't said things like health care couldn't be a business. We see the same destruction in public education. You want to spend only 3.4 percent of GDP on education, and this is far below the EU average. We are missing education systems that beat Hungarian education back and forth in the PISA surveys, and otherwise do not need to be transformed or modernised. This is the recipe for permanent and secure degradation, and it is not enough for Hungarian education to be no worse if it is not better. Hungarian children will be light-years away from their European counterparts, and they will be uncompetitive in Europe even when they receive their certificate. No one has ever harmed Hungarian children in this country as much as you have. We don't have to go to war with the teachers, we don't have to abolish the right to strike, we have to raise wages, we have to offer a decent career model and we have to modernise the curriculum. Of course, a austerity budget will never be able to do that. As you've heard from me, the budget is also a value choice, and it's obvious that everything is more important to you than the knowledge of our children, the health of our people. After that, you should never again quote Dezső Szabó's sentence, that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. [[10.30]] But not only in health care or education, we see dramatic austerity, but also in pensions. It is a shame and a shame that the minimum pension amount of HUF 28 500 will not change next year, so it has remained unchanged for 14 years. Do you know what 28 500 forints is enough for? A medium-sized grocery shopping, not a grocery shopping that can be eaten for a month, because that's far from enough for a single person. At present, nearly 18,000 pensioners receive this many pensions, and they are not helping anything, and they know that nearly a million people live on pensions below HUF 136 thousand. Further listings can be made, since almost 30,000 pensioners live between 28 500 and 50,000 forints a month. This is a humiliatingly low allowance, and you refuse to deal with it. This is a scandal in itself, but the low minimum pension also artificially keeps the benefits that are linked to this. This is why elderly people's benefits, child care allowance, care fees or public health care may be raised separately, so you are not only making cuts on the elderly through weak forints or pensions, but also in a number of other forms. The pensions were separated from wages 12 years ago, so today there is a difference between wages and rising pensions. According to some calculations, you have taken 1.2 million forints from every pensioner over the last 12 years, and this money is still missing even more. This is well shown by the fact that we spent 10 percent of GDP on pensions before 2010; next year, only 8.3 percent of this will be needed, which is what they are spending. We need more, but you, like I said, don't deal with it. You have taken away the honour of the work, so that wages and pensions will be reduced, and then you will carry out an increase in wages and cuts on pensioners. As if it were not enough for them to receive, with 25 percent food inflation, a only 5 percent pension increase, a fifth of what they should have received only because of the deterioration of money. The budget of Viktor Orbán and his government is budget cuts in 2023 and the budget of the Orbán package, which takes more money out of the pockets of Hungarian families than ever before and leaves more than the fidesz oligarchs. Next year's budget proves what the Democratic Coalition knew before the elections in April, and it is well anticipated that if Viktor Orbán remains Prime Minister, brutal cuts will come and this is in the budget. Even though you denied it at the time, we were right, which is why you do not protect the weakest, which is why you abandon the pensioners, so you do not deal with the problems of education and health, the budget for austerity, which is in this way an irresponsible and failed budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-22-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai, who is also speaking on the stand. We'll wait for Congressman to wake up. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, it's the end of the world if what we've just heard is true from Congressman Varju, who was a state secretary of the outgoing socialist governments. Now, while I was listening to his speech, I came up with some of the sentences of Andas Simor, the then central bank president. He put it this way: From the autumn of 2008 it became virtually impossible to finance the Hungarian budget in their currencies at a longer maturity. This is where we have to think today, this is the period of state failure, when socialist governments have navigated the country to a state failure, and these governments have a prominent Secretary of State for Congress, so I think that from this point of view what we have heard here is very questionable. That government did everything in its time, even before the bankruptcy of the state, to silence the tragic situation of the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy, even before the European institutions, when the data of the convergence programme at that time were virtually falsified to hide the reality so that they could win elections. Until now, this was a success in 2006, but the state failure sobered up Hungarian public opinion, swept away the socialist government, and has since brought us two thirds. Obviously, this is not independent of the performance of the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy. Mihály Varga in his expo said that his 13th budget will be submitted to Parliament today. Yes, it is worth looking back at these 13 years, and even though I referred to the end of the socialist governance crisis until 2008-2009, because when we are discussing a budget, it is in fact not only about the processes of the given budget year, but also about the economic flow that the Orbán government has experienced since 2010 since it took over governance, and it is, of course, a year's budget window. But let us first look at the circumstances of the referral in a very specific way. For eight years, the Orbán government has continued its practice of adopting the budget much earlier than the budget will enter into force. This has always been the subject of criticism, and so far there has never been an opposition speaker who has opposed this in itself, but it has always been the subject of criticism. I think that this practice is right, and life has confirmed it, because it means predictability and planning for economic operators, so this practice, I think, should continue in the future. We received useful assistance, as always from the Fiscal Council, as early as 3 June, their opinion on the budget submitted was published on their website, and we also received a standard, easy-to-understand, well-understood material from the State Audit Office. I also liked the solution chosen by the President of the State Audit Office to give a more comprehensive look at the Hungarian budget, the difficulties of the European and the world economy, and then the colleague tells us the narrow number issues that are obviously always presented to Members by a State Audit Office. If we reach back by 2010, because we should reach back, that's what the Minister of Finance did when he said his exposé here, then we can conclude that no matter how much we want to avoid crisis situations, they always reach us. This is the third situation we've been in since 2010. It all began with what the socialist governments had created, embedded in the financial crisis that reached the global economy in 2008-2009, and practically swept away the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget. At the time, an extremely large and fast-built IMF loan literally saved the Hungarian economy from bankruptcy. When we got out of that economic situation and thought we were somewhere, we were hit by the unprecedented health crisis, Covid, but its obvious economic effects affected the budget, and they still affect the budget today, because I think we're not over this either, I'm afraid we're gonna meet him again in the fall, maybe the impact won't be as strong as the first and second waves. So the impact on the economy, on the Hungarian budget, will no longer be as much on the possible reappearance of Covid as we have experienced. The Covid epidemic, I think, has been handled successfully, and when we thought that, now we're somewhere, that's when what no one could have expected happened, the war happened. [[10.40]] What I think is a bigger problem than war is the European administration of war, the sanctions policy, which undermines the positions of the Hungarian budget and not only the positions of the Hungarian budget, but also the positions of the entire European economy. But these are all items that we do not have so much influence on; for war, I think there is nothing, for sanctions policy, but we cannot avoid the negative effects of sanctions policy. At the most, when something fatal happens in this policy, we can reduce these difficulties by taking action by the Orbán government, and think of the Hungarian response to the oil embargo, the oil embargo, which has been reflected in European politics. But another threat to sanctioning policy is ahead of us, perhaps gas-related issues, which could affect the Hungarian budget even more severely. So if we simply have to acknowledge that there are, or will always be, crises outside of our will, then the only question is what state these crises are in for us. We must always pursue a budgetary and economic policy, says the past 13 years of governance experience of the Orbán government, so that we can either prevent these crises or mitigate their negative effects. This is what the Socialist Government was unable to do in 2008-2009, because the economic policy of the time, as I put it, just repeat myself, swept away the Hungarian economy and budgetary policy at that time. We had to get up from here. From then on, the civilian government is doing something completely different, as we put it, creating a work-based economy, achieving what I didn't believe was one million more jobs in this country than 3.7 million employees, that's what we called a work-based economy. Ten years from now, we can say that we have been able to achieve this. Basically, we have achieved it by completely transforming the budgetary thinking we have had. I want to refer to tax policy here, in personal income tax, we have changed the two-key taxation and made it one-key, we have moderated these burdens, and we have taxed the citizens of the country, the income owners, instead. If I make a comparison between the period then, i.e. the end of 2010 and the period 2022, I can actually talk about the following figures. There is a negative increase of 6.6 percent in 2010, i.e. a shrinkage in the country, an increase of 7.1 percent in 2022. Congressman Varju, do you feel the big difference in numbers? Or if I say that the unemployment rate in 2010 is 11.7 per cent, in 2022 3.6 per cent, we can practically say that we have reached full employment. As I mentioned earlier, 3.8 million employees in 2010 and 4.7 million employees in 2022. The tax burden on companies in that period is 55 percent, our period, so at the end of 22 32 percent. I was talking about the one-key personal income tax that we inherited from the socialists, the two keys, 36 percent and the smaller key were 18 percent. All these numbers in themselves contradict what Congressman Varju has said here. Then comes the Covid crisis, and the Covid crisis is even more difficult for the Hungarian economy, but there we are already in a situation where we need to think not about doing ourselves out of nothing, but about dealing with the Covid crisis by setting a goal there to preserve, trying to preserve the results that had already been achieved by the Hungarian economy. We knew well that Covid was tearing up production chains, and therefore jobs are at risk, and this is obviously a problem for families, so the Orbán government has conducted an economic policy to safeguard these jobs. When private investment is obviously reduced due to market failure, the state has in an incredible way started to encourage investments to preserve the performance of the Hungarian economy during the crisis. I note here that it is perfectly understandable that, at this time, because of the results of the war and the sanctions policy and the prolonged difficulties it has experienced, it does not want to cancel these public investments, which the government has forced up to now, but only wants to do them at a later date. It's a rational move from the government. So I can say today that, compared to the situation in 2008, the budget is now thinking about preserving jobs, maintaining the family support system and keeping the benefits. If we look at the economic prospects of the budget at the end of the year, we can say that at the end of 2021 Hungarian growth was 7.1 percent, unemployment was 3.6 percent and employment was 4.7 million. On these foundations we were able to spend HUF 3592 billion on family support expenditure in 2021. This is a uniquely high figure of GDP in the European Union. So I can say that we feel that we are somewhere, but war and sanctions policy are obviously more difficult than ever for the Hungarian budget. As I put it, we have no direct influence on the war, there is a certain amount of sanctions policy, and I have set an example of our response to the oil embargo, which was partly accepted by the European Community. Obviously, the presenters of the Hungarian budget know that the rate of growth that has been produced by the country so far, this increase of 7.1 percent, cannot be maintained. It can't be held because we are counting on this year in 22 and so this year, the growth will be only 4.7 percent, and we think that this will continue to decrease, so the budget provided will count by 4.1. But it is also a very nice number, obviously well above the EU growth average. What are the pillars of this growth? Inside demand. Consumption, we think, will reach 4.3 percent. Our long-term goals are encouraged by the excellent number of investment rates. With an investment rate of 27 per cent, I don't know when this country could have calculated, and the budget expects that if the State is to back up its own investments by pushing them forward, pushing them out as a result of the investment of families and the private sector, which, of course, has the incentive processes of the budget, this investment rate may rise to 28 per cent. This is unprecedentedly high in Europe as well. We are calculating the increase in real earnings in many employees, and in the medium term we can also calculate that we will ensure growth in the long term through efficiency-enhancing innovation developments. The budget of 23 is forced to calculate with what has always been typical of the Orbán governments to have a strict fiscal policy, and one aspect of strict fiscal policy is that the deficit target that we are planning in the budget will be kept with fire and iron. [[10.50]] This was true every budget year, the planned deficit target has always been maintained by the Orbán governments, this deficit target is now 3.5 percent of the budget for the 23rd budget. We believe that inflation will decrease to 5.2 percent in 23rd, and, as a result, public debt is now on a declining path, but this downward trend will continue, with 73.8 percent of public debt being achieved. The prudent budget planner also calculates reserves, only the general reserve reaches 0.25 percent of GDP, 170 billion. This budget clearly senses that there is a geopolitical reorganization in the world. I could also say that the world order in Yalta, which has been with us since World War II, has failed or seems to be broken, that is quite certain; as a result of this and the war, we are under threat of a global energy crisis in the coming years, which we do not see yet, but more and more competent analysts say that the world will also meet with a global food crisis. Not only do all these countries pose a threat to their physical security, because there is a war going on with us, it threatens our physical security in itself, but to overshadow the living conditions of families, it makes the financial situation of families more difficult, that is for sure, and this budget must therefore respond to this. And if you look at the budget or you follow the budget debate, there are two ways to react, there are clearly visible ways: this is the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which is planned by this budget with HUF 670 billion in revenue, and the Hungarian Defence Fund, which is planned for HUF 842 billion. Obviously, the Rezségvédelmi Fejlesztény is needed so that, as we say, Hungarian families do not pay the price of the war, although I would add that families are also involved in the whole, because the Hungarian budget pays these prices, which Hungarian families do not directly encounter. So we cannot create a situation where the Hungarian budget is already independent of the war situation, but we would like to maintain the position that families have maintained in direct payments, so the Rezségvédelmi Fund will ensure that the burden on families does not increase in terms of overhead. Obviously, this requires revenue. It's possible to say fancy passwords here, as we've just heard from Congressman Varju. Obviously, we are generating these revenues by taking away and regrouping the total extra revenue into the budget in sectors which, even in this war, are enriched not because of their better performance, but because of their situation, these extra revenues, some of them, are not included in the budget, and all of this is temporarily, because we are planning these expenses for two years. The other is the Defense Fund: 842 billion. This is really the novuma of this budget, because thinking about family policy has always been typical of the Orbán government, and we are now trying to protect these families, but there is a huge shift in defence spending. It would be expected that a NATO member country would spend 2% of its GDP on defence expenditure. No country has done this, least of all, Germany. I am referring to Germany because the Germans have decided to take this road in the future and, if you will, they will arm themselves, and there are even sounds that Germany will have nuclear weapons. This is a whole new phenomenon in Europe. In Germany, they thought of everything but the fact that they're going to be armed again. They will. The Hungarian government is forced to set off on this path, and it is forced to increase defence spending. For the record, we have done so before, but with the number that this budget now envisages, we are already reaching 2% of GDP. And I also hope that the Hungarian government will not only buy assets, but also, as we did at some point in the German automotive industry, that German knowledge, technology, money and Hungarian diligence, the factories are created here, and in Hungary, all the major German car manufacturers have production units, and we will be able to do this in the field of military expenditure. If the world is already armed, if this is already inevitable, Hungary can benefit from this new industry that is to be created in the long term. Those who observe the economic processes also see that this already has tangible results in Hungary, and I think that this will even increase in the coming period. We're going to spend 1375 billion on defence spending. This represents a 50 percent increase compared to 2010. We are spending 3225 billion on family support this year. This also represents a surplus of 450 billion compared to last year's very high level of expenditure. We can spend 4900 billion on pensioners, which is the most important thing for pensioners. Of course, these figures include the 370 billion that the payout of the 13th month pension in 2023 will mean for pensioners. We are spending 965 billion on law enforcement expenditure, and I note here that this is twice as much as in 2010. 2,670 billion for health, 2378 billion for education. The expenditure and revenue of municipalities are always a debate in the House during the adoption of the budget. As a fact, the Hungarian budget provides 968, 8 billion dollars for the operation of the municipalities. This, by the way, is a 10.9 percent increase compared to last year. At 2013 hours, we will continue the task financing support scheme that was then put on track by the Budget Act. Of course, municipalities will not farm from this 968 billion, but from much more than that: they farm from 3697 billion. Their business tax revenue increases significantly, some of which is paid into the Solidarity Fund. If, in this way, towards the end of what I have to say, I want the main priority areas to be summarised in this House, then I say that family support is still the most important area of this budget, the budget of 23; it is not by accident, is the Rehabilitation Fund; it is the protection of pensioners in every way. When I was talking about family support, I can simply say that the very rich system of family protection experienced by Hungarian families is included in the budget for 2023. Reinforced security: Think of spending on the Defense Fund. High employment remains a priority. Let us maintain this high level of employment, and the budget for next year is even further, I think, with an increase in employment of 0.3 percent, this budget is calculating with increasing incomes. The continuation of career models is necessary in all areas; improvements in health and development, particularly in the field of higher education. I have mentioned that the government will postpone public investments that have already been decided under duress, but it will finance current investments. This is what the Investment Fund is for, which is scheduled to provide the resources for these improvements as they apply for expenditure, and the Investment Agency also has a fund that will continue to finance other types of expenditure. [[11.00]] There's obviously a pause in the state's development. This is necessary to move our budget towards a balance. This is what I said that I would consider to be completely natural, but we will go through these difficult years, so I would ask you to help me, Mr. Secretary, to think about 2026 now, when the country is facing an unprecedented memory political event about the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Mohács, and in these difficult times we will also have the opportunity to prepare for planning, because the 500th anniversary can only be ruined now if we do not start planning this series of programmes in time. There would be no need for construction resources before 2024 anyway. By then, we may be living in a happier period in the economy and in Hungarian fiscal policy. I think that the budget is eligible; the Christian Democratic Group will obviously vote in favour of this. I do not expect any statements of opposition support, but if someone takes himself a little seriously, it does not hit the tone in this budget debate, as Congressman Varju did, although he had the right. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-22-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the notary of the Parliament, who is also speaking here on the stand. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-19	Mr President, Dear House, The budget in front of us is a kind of "carpe diem" - budget, the budget of the moment, which accounts for a lot of extra income, puts a lot of extra face on the Hungarian people, but it does not typically invest in the future, but is also trying to guarantee its current survival in a political sense. On the other hand, I would like to outline the programme of prosperity in the homeland and how this budget could be amended in the spirit of starting a family here, having a child, how to manage safely in its own homeland. Accordingly, I would like to shed some light on the government's statistical magic and talk about how real family protection could be achieved; to shed some light on the negative treatment of multinational companies and the possibility of benefiting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, housing and labour market issues. In the beginning, we have been talking about a bad tradition of budget planning for years, and my lead speaker from KDNP missed it, and I regret it, and it was not a good idea to plan during the year, and it was also revealed last year, Mr. Secretary, because if you look at the HUF-euro rate that was guessed during the year, and then where this HUF-euro rate ended up when the first day of the planned budget came, you will see that the difference between the two is ten forints. So it's impossible to plan in the way you did. In fact, without a record, this is extremely difficult. By one example of statistical magic, let me uncover it. The package you have submitted is a five to six percent inflation rate, quite nonsense! And here one of the pro-government colleagues said that there are tens of percent inflation, 10-20 percent in Western Europe. This is probably because Hungary is not unique from this point of view, but if we look at how KSH measures inflation, we will find very interesting things even in an analysis in 2021. The inflation measurement includes the hifitower with a CD player; it is included in the Dictionary paperbinding. Welcome to the 21st. It's a century! Anyone who rotates the paper-bound Dictionary and buys it in bulk probably doesn't upload the inflation data, but they measure the price change of the writetable DVD. Thus, it is quite amazing to measure inflation, while, if the Government of Hungary were to plan the budget responsibly, it would look at the basket of items typically consumed by basic foods, families raising children, and it would see that the increase in prices is, without exception, above 10 percent, where there are 20-30 percent for certain product products. And the same statistical example reveals the entire attitude of the government. In last year's budget debate, I mentioned that in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg the data of the KSH should not be fired at the residential forum, which is about a half-million-dollar average wage, because it is unlikely that it would be of great interest and would not trigger a great ovation. The fact is that these figures remind me of onionous fever dreams is that some 1.7 million Hungarian workers are simply left out of the statistics, since they do not measure the Hungarian national economy with less than five employees, typically micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but I would like to tell you that these people, these small companies, are carrying the Hungarian national economy on their backs. Multi-enterprises are not the majority of jobs. They may provide jobs with a better background and often higher paying, in return they will receive generous subsidies from this government, but two thirds of the jobs are still provided by ordinary heroes, Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises without which a successful national economy cannot be imagined. And while a draft budget is being drawn up here based on the price changes of the writeable DVD and the paper-binding small dictionary, they do not talk about how these Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises could not only benefit and be kept alive; for example, how to protect them from world market prices that we all want to protect them from. That is not what this draft budget is about. The average wage statistics and prognosis do not include 1.7 million Hungarian workers carrying the country on their backs. And sustainability issues are basically lacking in budget planning, which is why I say that we are talking about the budget of the moment. I am very pleased that the issue of sustainability already covers the protection of the created environment in the Fidesz-KDNP universe, I think it is a positive development. On the opposing side there were cynical sounds about it, I disagree with them. Let us deal with these questions. But what I see is that the sustainability issue, the dimension of demography, is still only sometimes, with insufficient weight and only words in government policy and budget planning. And now, when not only the number of living births breaks historical negative records, there are not so few Hungarians in written history, but also the fertility index, to which this government is fondly referring, unfortunately it has started to decline again, then we should talk about it, and this should be done in budgetary planning. And I'm gonna say again, who's against demographics, I think he's a traitor. This is a classified case of treason, because we must not root against our own country ever and nothing. But we also need to say that it is not enough to talk about this issue, and it must be supported by proper budget planning. There was some confusion between Fidesz and KDNP colleagues. There were some speakers who saw 300 billion less in the following year for family support than they do now. I would like to remind you that, as long as the amount of family support is included in the programme of 40, which is basically the pension-related expenditure, while the total amount of COS is calculated as the amount of items such as the child's child benefit, which I supported at the time, cannot be completely laundered for the picture of the benefit of net child rearing and childcare. Typically, we can start from what is subjective, what comes after wages, family allowances and others, as well as family tax incentives and associates, and in the other pocket, the EU record is typically shown by 27 percent VAT. Let's see what's going on with the people on the subject. In this budget, too, there are 300 billion family allowances, which are practically frozen over a decade's horizon. Meanwhile, inflation evaporated half of its value. As a right-wing man, I'm not a fan of unconditional increases. I say that, with the introduction of an institution called the family card, with which only basic food and child-rearing articles can be purchased, the family allowance should be doubled, not unconditionally, in a way that can be used exclusively in the child-bearing dimension, but also in terms of the child's housing, including educational and cultural, other costs, the family card is suitable for this. I will be very curious about the government's position on this, otherwise not so new idea, because I brought this up about ten years ago. We also see that inflation monitoring is not possible in the form of wage-related forms of child education, where appropriate in the form of family tax incentives. Is it a perfectly clear question to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő that the government is willing to make the system of family support a follow-up to inflation? This has been a debate between us for years. I know you're not making the final decision, but I think if we take this seriously, we need to talk about it. [[11.10]] We see that, while the amount of the right to the subject has been frozen, the wage is either due to inflation or not even more, on the other hand, with a brutal burden, the 27 percent VAT affects all dimensions of child rearing. In Hungary, diapers, baby food and children's clothing are the hardest to tax in the EU. What we see is that it would be very easy to change this situation. We have seen what this government expects from waiting for VAT. We can see that it is about 30 percent higher than in previous periods; it wants to collect much more than a thousand billion more of this. We do not ask for much, this plus is collected, so not with the other home, but with 10% of the amount collected in the plus, of this 10% we would like to permanently reduce the VAT content of all child raising articles, in such a way that we also guarantee a decrease in prices. If all we can do with it is to break the price boom dynamics in the market for child - rearing products, we have greatly benefited families. In addition, we would like to achieve a priority support for a network of children with the greatest problems with special educational needs, not taken from elsewhere, but plus one percent of the amount collected. Once again, we are asking for 1 percent of the additional VAT income for children in difficulty in Hungary. Anyone who says no to that, I don't know what to say. If we take the protection of families and support for childbearing seriously, this 10+1 percent should be given to those affected. We also see that in the midst of the loss of the social safety net last year, I demanded a triple shield for Hungarian families, children's educators. The first step of the 3rd shield was carried out with civilians, opposition, and the government was also open: the eviction moratorium lasted about a year and a half, but there was a break. What we see now is that there is no openness in the government to continue this moratorium, and we have received the first warning that house evacuations will be launched without accommodation, in a way involving families, including children's educators. So this is the first pillar of a triple defense shield: declare that we want an eviction moratorium until these mass problems are resolved. Our second demand was to put the credit moratorium in order so that banks would not be able to unilaterally play with the maturity without, in the end, families facing undue extra burdens. We have now come to the conclusion that the financial system in the form of extra tax is affected by the government and I am in favour of this, and I am criticising the methodology of this, not the idea itself, but on the other hand, it allows the same banks concerned to recover, withdraw the amounts involved, say, by playing one-sidedly with the maturity. The third and perhaps most important pillar of this triple shield is the cutting down, repairing and restoring legality of the amazing, hideous excesses of the implementation system in this entire so-called market. It's very difficult to say it's a market because it's a market in the eyes of entrepreneurs. I don't see the barcode, I see the man behind it, and I see that during the toughest crisis months, the 33 percent and 50 percent bans were applied to small pensioners, minimum wage earners, children's educators and family members, too. If that was the case, and in the order of tens of thousands, how can you talk about protecting families? I'd like to address one more question to the government. Are you willing to finally break your pact with the EBRD, where you have otherwise committed to the banking system not to enter into the legal dimension concerned in the interests of customers in order to remedy the situation of the victims and thus to harm banks citing them? The government has agreed not to deal with this. I ask why and for how long. We also see, returning to VAT for one word, that, indeed, by means of the VAT on child - rearing articles, an average child - rearing family pays more into the budget than it receives in the form of a family allowance. So this indicator turned a year or two ago. Shouldn't you be wondering if this VAT is justified? The same dimension emerged between us during the debate surrounding the global minimum tax. We also see that this is indeed the government, although it is now fightingly involved in the idea of a global minimum tax, and I have no problem with this inclusion if it achieves public burdens at home, but it does not do so. There is a gap between VAT revenue and corporate tax income expectations. In the form of VAT, families and companies pay a lot of money into the budget, but in terms of corporate tax, this government is very modest, very timid and does not want to carry out public burdens. The government itself admitted yesterday that it provided tax haven status for multinational companies in Hungary. It is a shame and a shame for you to have this competitive advantage, because we see that for you the low wages of Hungarians, the flexible working conditions and, by the way, the multi-business situation or climate of tax havens are the three main competitive advantages you want to benefit from. And I'm saying it's a semi-circular status. Hungary should not be placed on such a low shelf. We see that the conscious weakening of the forint also favours the exporting multinational companies concerned, and now, when we plan a budget in the middle of the year, I hope that I will not be right, but I think that today, again, the HUF/euro exchange rate is more favourable than it will be in six months. I wish I wasn't right, but that's what happened in the previous period. At 260 forints, you made very strong statements about weak people and weak forints, and now in 395 or sometimes around 400, of course, these statements have disappeared, and they are quoted by opponents. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not possible to plan consciously and accurately if the number of primers, inflation, the exchange rate for HUF/euro or the number of economic growth is not right. Another sentence on the expected GDP data. If the multi-company companies here are doing very well and then untaxed to take their profits out of the country and do not participate in public burdens, this will be a hell of a spin on GDP data. I'm asking if it's in the national interest. So this government could move towards a real development index. At least one annex should give us the position of Hungarian companies, of your Hungarian employees, and of the situation they are in, and the situation they are in because of the expected indicator changes. In the meantime, we see that the government is doing another completely unjustified thing about the dimension of multi-company companies: it is unilaterally granting grants to multi-company companies with a hundred-billion-dollar order of magnitude, among which there is one that has taken a thousand times the amount of support received out of Hungary in the form of dividends. Why should companies who carry out multiples of this from tax forints be supported, often without tax, often taxed from Hungary? What's the point? Anyone who knows a little about the functioning of these global networks knows that there is no need to operate with tax rates, not necessarily with grants if one wants to pursue a fair economic policy. You should protect your own employees. So, for once, the Hungarian employee should be chosen against the multinational, renegotiating all the strategic contracts, because we have read them all one by one. There's two things we didn't find in there. We did not find at least a conscious increase in the Hungarian wages allowed by productivity data, the catch-up of the wage Union concept in your contracts, and we did not find any protection of employees' interests in it. On the other hand, we had to pay attention to a very, very harmful phenomenon, and this very harmful phenomenon peaked last year in the form of a government decree, because they realized that there was a shortage of workers, and they did not really do anything about the forced exodus of hundreds of thousands. Demography fronts are at least rhetorically dealt with, unfortunately the numbers are not yet producing the desired results, but they have started importing hundreds of thousands of organized labour force from third worlds and third countries. The relief of labour imports during an emergency was essentially extended forever by a new decision. So, by avoiding or substantially facilitating the previous licensing procedure, you can be in a position to actually bring in the workforce from Vietnam, Kazakhstan, Mongolia and third countries in bulk without control. We must say that, in itself, to tolerate this situation would be to give up the national interest. It is necessary to examine how and how, in the hope of prosperity in the homeland, we can attract as many of our countrymen as possible, who want to thrive here, how to make as many of the inactive people active as possible with more conscious re-training programs, but as right-wing people, I reject the desire to ensure sustainability from third countries through mass and organised labour imports in Hungary. [[11.20]] That's nonsense, you can't do that. And a list of the professions in question has also been published, where the labour force would be organized, and there will be many dedicated professions from the butcher through the bartender, where I find it unthinkable that there would be no domestic labour if it were to be properly paid if proper vocational training were available, if a suitable housing programme were to join this. And let me have a few words on the issue of housing, because we see that the most important pillar of the family support system could be a national, state-based rental program whose concept has been put down several times, right, under the name of the "Our Castle" programme, this has already come before the House many times, but we see that since 2010, Fidesz-KDNP has tolerated a market, the housing market, where there is a brutal supply shortage. There are very few new-built real estates, but 40,000 should be built every year to exchange real-estate assets every hundred years, there were years when it was 8,000 new-built, and now we're in the vicinity of 20,000, which is a much better state. But there is a similar supply shortage in the rental market, in the rental market, and if we look at the minimum wage proposal you made and find it with a metropolitan rent fee, then the final result will be an untraceable situation for a family-founding Hungarian youth. So we see that we do have work to do here. I've mentioned the extra-VAT demands. Not much, with 20% of these, could a national rental scheme be launched with this amendment being submitted in the budgetary debate, of course, and in the long term it would be important to be able to pay a much more favourable rate than market prices, to rent properties that are also suitable for the establishment of a family. If by doing so only a few thousand, tens of thousands of young Hungarians receive, see and feel the opportunity to thrive at home, in their homeland, not migrate out of coercion, with the sense of better wages and inability to obtain a single home abroad, then we have made a huge leap forward, the taxpayers of the future can stay in Hungary, the Hungarian children can be born at home. After all, you know that if a child is born in the Benelux states or Germany in a Hungarian family, there will be socialization, there will be very, very little chance of a Hungarian person living here who can build this country in every respect in the Carpathian Basin. There is nothing wrong with a young person going out, seeing the world, gaining experience, and then, richly, returning here, but if a child is born out in the first place, very difficult, often inaccessible situations arise, and, well, we see, based on the vast majority of cases, that family will not necessarily spend their lives in Hungary, and I would like to submit everything to the programme of prosperity in the homeland, including all budgetary decisions. That is why I call on the Government of Hungary to transform this into a budget for future building instead of the budget of the moment, where there is much more for real family and child protection and housing programmes. At last, let go of the hands of the multinationals and banks, stand on the side of the Hungarian families! And I know this sentence must be weird for you at a time of special taxes, when in the media, the faucet is what's going on with you and the banks, the different airlines, your associates, but just look at one item, and we'll see what we're thinking right now. Financial transaction tax. Did the government throw you out on the banking system? He threw it out. Is it a big sum? Yeah, over 200 billion. Did the banks pass it down to the last penny? Yeah. If there's anyone in this room who can argue with this statement, please come forward or press a button during the day, I'll be watching the whole debate, and I'll follow it if you can prove to me that this pass-on has not happened. This has so happened that the banks concerned have even sent a letter to small business operators that they will collect the amount of the financial transaction levy for months, and, well, we can see that not only urban legends have been going on in this area, but also that these transfers have been made in a proven and demonstrable way with regard to the bank tax. You can impose a lot of extra taxes, but if, in the end, Hungarian families, the Hungarian taxpayers, assume these burdens, then perhaps we can say that true family protection has not been fully implemented. So I call on you to be much braver about these questions. It could be real family protection, a real housing programme, and a reattachment of the social safety net, which could contribute to the program of prosperity in the homeland as such as a triple pillar. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-22-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The Momentum Group indicated that their group's position was presented by three of its representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr András Fekete-Győr. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, There are opposition-sensory voters, and there are journalists working in independent media who ask me why, in this two-thirds parliament, when we are debating laws in quotes, the Momentum faction makes use of legislative proposals. Well, that's because that's what you do, because that's what we do. Our job is to make an alternative to you, against the political culture that believes in the means of defeat, against the culture of persuasion, so against you, an alternative with a patriotic and progressive spirit. The Hungarian budget law, perhaps we can all say, is one of the most important bill of the year. In this regard, I would like to present to you the position of the Momentum, the new political generation. Firstly, I would like to say that the Members of the Momentum do not vote in favour of the Orbán package, we do not vote in favour of the Fidesz budget for price increases and poverty. The Prime Minister has been saying for 15 years that the policy of austerity is wrong, wrong, guilty, no matter how big the crisis says Viktor Orbán, we do not need to raise taxes, because we cannot leave anyone on the trenches. And yet, after 12 years of governance, when there really is a problem, and not only because of your irresponsible spending on elections in Hungary, but in all Europe, there is a real problem, you are putting down a gigantic austerity package. Viktor Orbán is considered to be a visionary in your party, a man who you believe has an idea of what Hungary will be like in 5, 15, don't give, in 30 years. However, from this budget, which you have put on the table, it is not clear that your Prime Minister, your party president, has no idea where Hungary should be in 5, 15 or 30 years' time. All he wants to do is survive your party, which follows from this budget, staying in power, literally at any cost. You have fought against austerity while you have introduced the harshest restrictions or one of the harshest restrictions in the history of Hungary over the past 33 years. Hungary is a serious and large country, but in a global sense it is a small country. We don't have inexhaustible natural resources, we don't have big companies, we don't have dollar-like national currency, and we certainly don't have that. The only way for Hungary to rise in the long term is to develop high-quality education, digital and language skills, and to improve the health of Hungarian people, so that we can live and enjoy life as long as possible. I mean, my fellow Members, I think that you should invest in people, in your fellow countrymen, in yourself, and when we talk about you, then you like to invest in yourself, but I am talking about knowledge, I am talking about living, and I am talking about health, and we have been waiting for you for over 12 years. All research shows that education is the best way to promote economic growth. In successful countries, there is a high number of skilled people, well-functioning countries are sacrificing to education, so the Momentum would immediately increase the salary of all teachers by 50 percent. This, fellow Members, would cost HUF 250 billion. We are not talking in the air, but only from the availability fee for the motorway and road networks, the sum of 380 billion could be paid to teachers who are responsible for the knowledge and training of our children and on whom their responsibility rests. [[11.30]] Compared to this, in your austerity budget, it's not about education development, teacher wage increases. Let's talk about health care. Medical-preventive health spending will increase by only 1.9 percent with inflation of 5 percent, i.e. the real value of healthcare expenditure will decrease. After two years of Covid, Europe's worst cancer statistics and deaths due to chronic diseases, the Orbán government, so you decide to cut the money for health care. I'll be damned. Every year 30,000 people die in Hungary, my fellow Members, because healthcare is of poor quality in Hungary. And I'm not saying that. I'm talking about a government organ, a government organ under your control, the AEEK in its report a few years ago. Unfortunately, this situation has not changed since then, and it is a shame. There would be a 30 percent immediate wage increase for health professionals. This, fellow Members, would cost 120 billion forints, the Paks II. With the amount of the 150 billion capital increase foreseen in Zrt., we would have plenty of money from the budget. Then it is not relevant at budgetary level, but it is symbolic that, while you cannot afford to raise the salary of teachers and health workers, the salary of the Prime Minister is still doubled, while the profits of the Orbán companies are skyrocketing. Speaking of Orbán companies, you will raise taxes on grocery stores, energy companies, airline companies, telecommunications companies, increase food, increase travel, increase phone calls; only one thing remains intact, and this is the Orbán company empire. Now I would like to turn to the Minister of Finance's representative. Can't you count in the Treasury Department? Are they also asking for extra profit in loss-making sectors, while they do not see the ten billion-dollar profits of companies owned by Viktor Orbán's friends and strómans, which employ a few dozen people? Can't you think of touching the profits of companies registered to Lőrinc Mészáros? But they call it a tax fraud, abuse of catataxation, and they have been threatening small entrepreneurs in Hungary for months, from professional translators to hairdressers? Don't you at the Ministry of Finance notice that there are private equity funds? Or is it illegal to tax them in the world of Viktor Orbán? What is the reason why Opus Global, which makes a profit of HUF 41.6 billion, did not receive an extra profit tax, but because of Covid lost airlines and the rural community? What kind of budget is it where Dolomit Kft. is not Orbán's. They're taxing a billionaire's profits. They're taxing a worker who's packing dolomite, who'd buy a bun at the store, how's he holding up? What kind of thing is that? ! Dear Parliament, Over the past few minutes, I have given examples of how the Fidesz budget of price increases and poverty will live up to the future. I stress that the problem is not saving money, but saving on education, the social sphere and health care, so that you can continue to ensure the extra profit of the government. Of course, you'll be able to afford another ministerial yachting. Teachers, university instructors, nurses and civil servants will get what they've got. Even more dangerous is the fact that the country is placed in a negative spiral similar to 2009-10. In fact, the austerity cuts down consumption, investment, and thus economic growth itself, leading to declining public revenues, which may require further cuts. For this to happen, the Orbán government would have to cut off its own sacred cows and touch its own extra profit, so the Orbán companies. There are a number of cost items where public spending can be reduced, ranging from construction investments to motorway availability fees to the Investment Fund. We need to raise taxes on Orbán companies, fellow Members. And this money could be spent by offering Hungary a growing future in the crisis. For example, it could be immediately increased by 50 percent for all teachers, 30 percent for all health professionals, and 20 percent for firefighters, policemen, and our fellow countrymen in the social sector. Health care could be improved by remote diagnostics, remote surveillance systems, digital information provision. There are also 100,000 apartments per year for energy modernisation. This would cost 300 billion forints, my fellow Members, which could be carried out through the 200 billion-dollar Investment Fund at the Ministry of Finance and the extraordinary government measures planned for the 170 billion. Moreover, this would be a profitable investment for Hungary in the long term. These proposals were submitted by the Momentum Group to Parliament, among other things. We do not promise irresponsiblely, we have always marked where we would take the money that we would spend on education, digitalization, health care, energy modernisation, raising wages for nurses, teachers, public servants, social workers. I believe that this is the responsible policy, fellow Members. If these proposals were accepted and accepted, the possibility of a slow but more secure rise here in Hungary will open up in the crisis rather than a permanent downfall. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-22-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The group's position will continue, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Lords and Wives of the Archbishop! I imagine that there is a government meeting at the Carmelite monastery, and they read the news: 400 HUF, two figures inflation, teacher strike, 300 police officers in one week, and health services in ruins, and then someone raises their hands and says that there is a solution that has been lying right in front of us all this time: let us rename ministers as chief ministers. Bravo! Well, how come no one ever thought of that before? I don't understand. I hope that you do not wish to reinstate serfdom. But speaking of health care, let me just say a few words about that. We're 32 years after the change of regime, governments come and go, but something's always the same. Health has never been a priority in our country for some reason in the last 32 years. In 2016, nearly 30,000 deaths could have been avoided by more effective public health and prevention interventions. A further 16,000 deaths could have been prevented by more effective and timely healthcare. In the last 20 years, roughly 1 million Hungarians have lost their lives in such a way that they could have been saved. Of these twenty years, you have given the government for 12 years, fellow Members of the Fidesz-KDNP. That's 60 percent. This is 600,000 lost Hungarians, 600,000 grieving families. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how much life expectancy is expected at birth in Hungary today? I'll help you: 75.7 years; 72.3 years if you're a man. So I've got about 40 years left of my earthly career, just because I was born in a country where governments at all times don't care about people's health, where the government that calls itself a national doesn't care about the health of the nation. On the other hand, the life expectancy at birth in the West, which you often considered to be declining, is on average 80.4 years, and 77.5. Well, where's the much-spoken national solidarity at this hour? I'm asking you. Why do Hungarians deserve shorter lives than the French or Italians? [[11.40]] After that, we wonder how the Hungarians are losing weight? A Hungarian man retires at 65. Seven years left to enjoy his retirement after a lifetime of work. Is that okay? I'm asking you. Put your hands on your hearts, my honourable pro-government colleagues, and answer the question: when did you last use public health? John's Hospital looks like a zombie horror movie set. Not long ago, I was assigned to the John for blood work. I was somewhat surprised to find that the money I paid was enough to put my two ampoules of blood in my hand and ask me to go to the lab that's two buildings away, because there's no one to carry my blood. You've heard that I've flown my own blood around John's Hospital because there's no one to carry it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Do you think this is a normal procedure? Do you think this is a normal operating order? Do you think this is a working health care? Don't get me wrong, it's not the staff at John's Hospital that's responsible for this, ladies and gentlemen, it's you. You, who have followed the tradition of your predecessors and have given a great deal of attention to the health of our country and the health of Hungarian people. I am sorry to see that the current system invests money in the past instead of the future, instead of the people in visual investment. At the same time, according to the Chairman of the Hospital Association, HUF 600 billion is missing from Hungarian health care. I do not dispute that an impressive building can be more beautiful than, say, the ruins of the former Archduke's Palace of Joseph. However, I also claim that if I have to choose to die between beautiful buildings in an otherwise manageable disease, because I do not receive the right medical care, or for a few years these investments will not be built, but we will settle the situation of Hungarian health care, which has been regretted by the Hungarian governments for 32 years, then it is clear that I am voting for the latter. You would increase the cost of curative-preventive benefits by 6.2 percent by 2023 compared to this year, but most of the increase and HUF 102.5 billion are part of the targets. It's a black box right now, and we don't know what the government's up to, but it's gonna be enough to raise next year's medical wages. But how are you planning to cover the increase in nurse's wages? In addition to this 102.5 billion, everything else, such as general medical care, dental care, protective care, rescue, outpatient care, outpatient care, inpatient care, so everything that a normal person thinks of during health care will have a total increase of HUF 28.9 billion. This is virtually nothing, only a 1.9 percent increase, i.e. far below expected inflation, which, according to the government's optimistic expectations, will be above 5 percent next year. It follows, therefore, that the deterioration of service standards is inevitable. The budget presented to us fits perfectly into the line that we already know from the budget of the last three decades, and this budget is a budget of poverty: it reduces not only the middle class, but the vast majority of Hungarian households. Speaking of middle class, no government can give up on helping the middle class, since we all know that this country is actually on their shoulders. You continue to roll on the health problem, perhaps it is not a coincidence that Sándor Pintér was recruited under the Minister of the Interior or Mr. Supposedly, the Minister of Interior is waiting for him to fail this task at the end of the cycle at the age of 74 at 78 and to say that we are not losing so many Hungarians a year because of the government's fault, but one person's responsibility, provided, of course, that the Minister of Interior lives more than the average Hungarian would live with the suspicion that he does not go to the SZK. In the Momentum's budget amendment proposal, we propose to spend more than 150 billion extra resources on health care: to raise wages for health professionals, to create digital health care, to obtain antiallergic injections for all kindergarten, kindergarten and school institutions, and to improve health in Budapest. It is a human focus that is lacking in the budget you have presented. It is quite simply nonsense that in exchange for the organisation of the Athletic World Championship, the Budapest was able to fight itself, as part of which Gábor Havasi managed to reduce the waiting lists of CT and MR scans, led by my partner, Gábor Havasi Momentum. You were willing to spend taxpayers' forints on taxpayers' health on the condition that there was consensus behind the organisation of a sporting event. When will we finally have a consensus behind health care? When will there finally be consensus that the health of Hungarians is the most important? Instead of overpriced prestige constructions, for example, more resources should be devoted to health care. At last, the Hungarian people must be at the heart of the Hungarian budget, and the budget should serve the growth of the community. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-22-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Dávid Bedő will continue the keynote speech of the Momentum. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, This budget proves that you did not have to face real difficulties in a long time. In the midst of the unprecedented economic recovery of the last decade, its abundance of money and the seemingly infinite EU funds, they have never really been forced to put together a well-thought-out, clear and disciplined budget, one that has clear priorities and goals, something that can be felt in every forint that is designed with the spirit to promote the well-being and growth of Hungarian people. You guys are sloppy, tired and out of practice, or maybe you've never really been in on it. In the budget you put together, it's only clear about the extra taxes and restrictions, because they're so big that you can see them from the moon. All other smearings, misconceptions, aimless and soulless juggling of numbers, the sole purpose of which is to avoid an even more serious economic crisis. However, if, at some point, there is certainly a need for clear targets, we must tell you what to spend on this country's scarce money, what to do, if we cannot be certain of the multiplicity of EU funds at your fault, what to spend the little that is left after the tax revenues of the country on the threshold of the economic crisis have been distributed as part of their electoral campaign. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If you're a lad at night, be a lad by day. If you guys have ruined the country's savings, and in the big partying you've messed with our most important ally, then at least take responsibility for the missing billions and put together a budget in which the focus is not on grating, but on ensuring the well-being, health and future of the people. Momentum has become used to not only criticizing, but also providing solutions. That is why we have put together a package of proposals for you to give a clear direction to your confusing budget. We are calling for the creation of three guarantee funds to address the three main problems that are currently affecting people: their precarious livelihoods, their precarious health and their uncertain future. The first is the welfare fund, the source of which has been clearly marked in our budget amendments. This 750 billion-dollar fund would protect Hungarian people who were vulnerable and defenceless in the face of the economic crisis by the government's 12-year policy. As part of the welfare fund, the employees of police, firefighters and the social sphere would receive an immediate 20% wage increase, and this would not yet be a clear wage arrangement that this government has long owed them. This 20% increase would protect those who serve our nation every day from immediate dangers of speeding inflation. We would also use the welfare fund to provide one-off social support to families in need and the unemployed to compensate for the runaway price increase and to provide small and medium-sized enterprises with development resources that they have not recently had the opportunity to receive in the absence of EU recovery funds. Until the government can stop inflation itself, it is responsible for reducing the increased expenditure of Hungarian people, because we should not deceive anyone, this inflation is caused only in a smaller part by the war in the neighbourhood, this record inflation is largely the fault of your failed, wasteful and steal-based economic policy. In the Momentum, we feel that the person who caused it is primarily responsible for solving a problem. [[11.50]] The cost of the welfare fund of 750 billion is only three and a half Puskás stadiums, no more than you have beaten to stadiums and grandiose sports facilities in recent years. This may not be a large amount of money for Hungarian families to feel safe in the midst of a runaway inflation. The second fund, proposed to set up, is the health fund. During the past two years of epidemics, you have appalled the issue of health care as if you were no longer interested in one of the fundamental tasks of the state. On the one hand, the health fund developed by the Momentum includes an immediate 30% wage increase for health professionals, because if we do not stop their departure from health care, then Hungarian patients will soon be welcomed by empty clinics and hospitals. The health fund is also a guarantee to radically accelerate the digitalisation of health. With the urgent deployment of telediagnostic and remote surveillance systems, people should travel less to receive quality care even from the comfort of their homes, and it would also be possible to use the basis for a really small batch of life-saving anti-allergic injections for every nursery, kindergarten and school. What is particularly shocking is that this requires only 140 billion forints. That's how much the health fund for the Momentum costs. This is only twice the amount the government spent on the World Hunting Exhibition last year. Perhaps it is more necessary to maintain the functioning of health care than to support the government's hobby. Our third proposal is the future-protecting fund, which aims to do something for the country's long-term development, even this scarce budget of 2023, because inflation here, crisis there, the future of the Hungarian nation is always the first responsibility of the Hungarian government, at least that is what we say in the Momentum. On the one hand, the future protection fund would prevent the total loss of Hungarian education, which you have been shamelessly neglecting in the last 12 years, and put it back on the path of development. We need to give the teachers an immediate 50 percent wage increase, we need to settle the salaries of university teachers and we need to start the hiring programme of young teachers who are starting their careers. The Klebelsberg Service Apartment program would provide a lifeline for beginner teachers who would like to teach Hungarian students out of vocation, but the ridiculous teacher's salary will be completely lost by housing costs. But not only education, but also climate protection is about the future. It may not be a coincidence that this has also been completely dismantled by the governments of the last three cycles. Therefore, Momentum's proposal is to devote significant resources from the future protection fund to the energy modernisation of the Hungarian people's homes and the renovation of municipal rentals. The green-residual reduction is the real reduction in the overhead. And it would also come from this fund where every developed country in Europe is miles ahead of us to improve rail transport. The Momentum will not only provide money for the renovation and expansion of the main railway lines, but also for the extension of the sidelines. In fact, along the railway lines and in neglected small settlements, we propose the launch of a national field development programme. We have calculated the transfer of HUF 680 billion to the future fund, which will make all these goals feasible. It may seem like a big sum at first, but the thing is, it's not much more money than you spent on government propaganda in the previous term. You know what's really shocking? That Momentum experts could easily find the funds for our three guarantee funds. For the welfare, health and future protection fund, our experts have easily found out where they can be transferred from in the last week's budget. That wasn't hard, because they'd have to waste less money on public spectacles, competition sports, propaganda, or one of your favorite money-sucking projects, the infinite Paks II. It would be good for you to finally understand: because of your irresponsible governance, we are going to have to spend a very short period of years, and from now on we will only be able to spend the country's money on what serves the well-being, health and future of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-06-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The MSZP Group has also indicated that their group's position will be presented by two. First, I give the floor to Mr. Bertalan Tóth. I'm gonna wait for him to turn up on the stand because he's gonna say his speech from here. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Uncertainty is the most founding word, which is the budget and the period before us. The Fidesz government has brought us a budget of uncertainty. The geopolitical situation is uncertain and the outcome of the rule of law procedure is uncertain. Access to EU catching-up resources is uncertain and therefore all corner numbers placed in the budget are uncertain. What I'm sure is brutal inflation, a series of cuts and cuts started by the Fidesz government. The latter, on the other hand, undermine the safety of livelihoods. There is uncertainty among pensioners, underpaid educators and social workers, families, in essence, at nine tenths of society. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I go into the details, let's look at the circumstances that affect and unsure the design. Everything shows that the world and Europe in it are facing difficult years. With Putin's senseless war, the aggressor Russia is now threatening not only the countries of the European Community, but it has put Transcarpathian Hungarians in immediate danger of life. The effects of this war, whatever the Fidesz people are trying to believe, we all feel it together with the Ukrainian people who are suffering, because as a result of the war, food shortages, lack of raw materials, redundancies, unemployment, increased costs, poverty can develop in the countries of the region and hunger in the African countries that need Ukrainian grain imports. The resulting dissatisfaction can lead to further local conflicts, wars, humanitarian crises that need to be dealt with. We could say that, despite the many difficulties, Hungary is safe, and as a member of the European Union, it will be easier to cope with the difficulties with the other states. However, Hungary's situation is particularly difficult. On the one hand, because, in recent years, the Orbán government has associated one of Europe's largest rate of deterioration and one of its lowest competitiveness with high public debt and government deficits. Government debt is higher than in 2010 after the crisis. At the beginning of the year, the 13th month's pension and the tax refund had long since been taken away by inflation, carried away by the brutal beauty of the shops. 450,000 old people live on less than the minimum living pension, one in five Hungarian children is born in poverty. Hundreds of thousands of families live in housing poverty, and they have no chance of breaking out of poverty. That is one of the reasons why we are in a difficult situation. According to Eurostat's latest statement, Hungary is the second poorest country in the European Union in terms of income and GDP per capita. We are also in a difficult situation because Fidesz has gradually dismantled the rule of law and democracy in Hungary over the past 12 years, turning its back on EU values. And our allies are now satisfied with the centrally organized theft of EU funds for catching up. So that is where we are now, if there is no rule of law, if there is no improvement in the corruption situation, there is no EU money. If there is no EU money, there is no economic growth. If there is no economic growth, there will be no catch-up. Then it's poverty and detachment. The Orbán government should seek compromises with the EU at least on the issue of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the fight against corruption, as it is in our interest to bring EU money and to reduce corruption. Unfortunately, however, we do not see any change in this, and therefore our access to EU funds is uncertain. We can see that Minister Navracsics is trying, and he has even supported us in raising the wages of teachers, but we see that he is fighting a windmill within the Fidesz. Ladies and gentlemen, So you have just put the budget of uncertainty, the budget of uncertainty. I don't think you believe the figures on which the plan is based, such as 5.2 percent inflation, the EUR 377. [[12.00]] But it is clear that again in its proportions there will be less money for education, health and social expenditure, because the Orbán government is now taking it away from families, young people, pensioners, which it favored from November to February. He collects a lot more taxes as prices increase. In the meantime, however, not only is he looting but he also distributes it to his minions and to those who already have many. Of course, what we are discussing may not be anything, since the budget for 2021 has also been revised every four days, in total 85 times. What's in this budget is just a bluff and uncertainty. If that were accepted, it would push the whole country, workers, pensioners, small businessmen, families, almost everyone into financial uncertainty. According to the MSZP, this budget should not be adopted, it should not be implemented, because it would be a crime against the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, We Socialists and Social Democrats believe in a just and solidarityal society, where the state gives everyone a chance to rise, where there is a strong social network, a guarantee of livelihood. In Deák's words, where not the rich are many, but where the poor are few. Our primary goal, as Socialists and Social Democrats, is to improve the standard of living of people who are paid, guaranteeing the safety of livelihoods for all. This requires fair taxation, which contributes to the achievement of public goals in line with the principle of justice. With regard to redistribution, i.e. budget, the most important thing is to create a chance for social democrats, because this is the primary task of the state, giving everyone a chance to make a safe living, access to high-quality education and health care. In today's situation, a social democratic government would put together the following principles in Hungary's budget. No one should be poor because he is sick, and no one should be sick because he is poor. A social democratic government would guarantee all Hungarian citizens high-quality GP care, screening tests, appropriate specialist care and justified hospital service. To do so, it would increase the budget for health care so that the opportunities for growing and expanding healing are accessible and that doctors, nurses and other health workers can make a decent living. We would gradually raise public health expenditure to the EU average. A social democratic government would increase the wages of all health workers in a comprehensive and fair manner by expressing their appreciation and enabling them to make a decent living. The salary of healthcare professionals would reach the EU average in purchasing power by 2024. We would increase the funding of GP practices in order to provide doctors with an increased personal allowance. The basic wages and allowances of nurses, assistants and other healthcare workers would be increased by 50 percent, and general medical practitioners would also be covered by the additional salary of their employees. However, the Fidesz and the Orbán government are opposed to these efforts, which, unfortunately, can also be seen from the budget that has been put before us. The aim of a social democratic government would also be to ensure that education serves both individual and community objectives and to reduce educational inequalities and social selection. As Albert Szent-Györgyi put it, the future will be like today's school. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, A Social Democratic Government would increase the public education budget to 6-6.5% of GDP in order to reduce under-financing and serious efficiency problems in parallel. It considers it necessary not to make any difference in the funding of public education institutions. A social democratic government would introduce a system of wages in education that would encourage the choice of teaching careers; a basic wage and bonus system that would provide an intellectual way of life for young educators. We consider it appropriate to catch up with teachers' wages for the average salary of graduates. The Social Democratic Government would assign to the minimum wage the teachers' wage and the recognition of quality work would once again be part of the teacher's promotion system. We would also increase budget support for higher education to 1 percent of GDP. We would introduce a salary that would allow the provision of quality instructors' supplies. However, the Fidesz and the Orbán government do not agree with these efforts, because this is not apparent from the budget. We Social Democrats would introduce an immediate correction for pensioners today, because respect and respect for the elderly are one of the most important things besides words. This should also be expressed in a tangible way. A social democratic government would consider it appropriate for the retirement age to be flexible downwards. It would reduce the current huge differences in pension determination by restoring the ceiling and increasing the rate of degression for actions after 2022. It would also initiate a minimum full-age pension from 2023 to reach at least 50% of the net minimum wage for that year. It would make up for the lower pensions previously laid down for this amount. A lower full-age pension could not be fixed later. A Social Democratic Government would introduce from January 2023 a mixed indexation of the annual pension increase, which would take into account, in addition to inflation, the increase in net earnings. However, in order to catch up on low pensions, everyone would receive an increase corresponding to inflation in proportion to their pension for a transitional period from 2023, the above part, i.e. the amount due on the basis of wage increases, would be distributed equally to pensioners. Thus, each pensioner would be entitled to maintain the real value of his pension, i.e. his previous consumption, but with the same amount of economic growth, those with a low pension would receive a percentage increase above the average. However, the Fidesz and the Orbán governments look down on the elderly and oppose proposals that increase their standard of living and guarantee a safe living. A social democratic government would guarantee a minimum social livelihood for everyone. It would radically increase maternity support for children. Family benefits on the subject would be doubled by the family allowance, child, child. The tax relief for children would remain, but its amount would not increase. We would introduce an additional family allowance for child support through tax incentives as an additional family allowance for each family entitled to tax relief to receive child-by-child support. Those actively involved in job search would receive 60% of their wages, but at least a minimum of minimum income support, which would be paid for nine months. However, the Fidesz and the Orbán government leave most of society on the side of the road. A social democratic government would help to start an independent adult life, to reduce intra-generational and intergenerational wealth inequalities, and to introduce the institution of minimum heritage. The state would collect savings for young people in savings accounts, which could be used by every young person over 18 years of age. On the one hand, the minimum heritage could be spent on housing, rent, rent, purchase of new housing, and on the other hand funding for higher education or other forms of adult education. However, young people are not important to the Fidesz and the Orbán government. A social democratic government would make sure no one gets cold. It would introduce a wide-ranging price system and launch a broad energy efficiency and housing renewal support programme, which would follow both sustainability and social aspects. As part of this, it would support the modernisation of the insulation of buildings, the replacement of stoves, which are often heated with coal, wood and garbage. These measures could significantly reduce the overhead costs of poor households, as well as the serious health-damaging internal and outdoor air pollution. The programme would encourage the use of renewable energy in the population, even for the poorest households. However, the Fidesz and the Orbán governments are interested in the use of Russian oil and gas as much as possible. A social democratic government would introduce a fair wage policy, a minimum wage would be exempt, and a tax of less than one-and-a-half times the minimum wage would be charged, so that the worker would bring more money home. [[12.10]] We would like to take the initiative to maximize wage differences within companies, and we are still blocking unrealistically high management salaries. The company managers' bonus would not exceed 20% of their basic salary, and the share of the management salary exceeding 10 times the minimum wage would not be deducted from the company's tax base as a cost. And we would create a system in which some of the profits of companies would be distributed equally among current employees as a profit share. In the public sector, we would develop sectoral professional pay schemes that reward the professional values of a given area, thereby encouraging higher performance. The Fidesz and the Orbán government, however, serve the leaders of the multinationals and, in other words, only prioritise their own salary. A social democratic government would restore the freedom of local communities, local governments. It would initiate a restructuring of the local business tax system, which provides a large part of municipal tax revenues, to encourage businesses to achieve higher added value and increase local government's own revenue. Totally municipal revenue would be the motor vehicle tax again. 20 per cent of the excise duty collected on fuel would be charged to the municipalities, which should be distributed among them in proportion to the road network they manage and translated into roads. The revenue of each municipality would be 20 percent of the personal income tax generated in its administrative area, because the tasks to be performed are proportional to the number of souls. The Social Democratic Government would radically transform the municipal budget system because there is no autonomy without money. Local government expenditure would reach around 11 per cent in line with the tasks to be carried out by the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, What Fidesz presented as a budget for next year would only bring austerity and uncertainty to the Hungarian people, although there would be another way to ensure safety of life and the safety of livelihoods. We MSZs say it's time for the government to start acting for the good of the people. We've done most of this work. We are putting forward concrete proposals for the well-being of the Hungarian people before Parliament, and all we need from you is cooperation. Think about it and vote for our future together, Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2022-06-22-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The position of the MSZP Group, as I said, will also be presented by Mr Zoltán Vajda from here on the platform. We're gonna wait for him to wake up. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-29	Dear Parliament, As Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I looked forward to the submission of the bill on the budget for 2023. It is now decided what is the government's top priority and how it intends to spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money. It will also be decided that everything is really as beautiful and good as Fidesz claims, or we can talk about austerity. The numbers are talkative, and they never lie, although sometimes we may feel that the Ministry of Finance is doing their best to speak as little as possible. And you also have a paper on this, as analysts say that Hungarian is one of the least transparent budgets of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the overall picture, however, it became quite rapid to see that the outline of a brutal austerity package was drawn up in the budget, even though the proposal was based on hurraoptimist assumptions, so much so that the Budget Council had to give open criticism to the draft in a way which was not typical of it. According to the council, a smaller constellation of wonders has to come together in the world in order to achieve a realistic 4.1 percent increase in GDP. The Fiscal Council also urged the Government to reach an agreement with the European Commission, because Hungary needs EUR 40 billion for Hungary more than ever before. In addition, it can be seen from the Council's document that the Ministry of Finance submitted the draft to the Council in a very conflicted form, because it was almost dozens of times missing detailed data, supporting individual figures. Dear Parliament, The government expects an average wage increase of 11,6 per cent in the competition sector, while only 5.5 per cent in the public sector, it can only promise a 5.2 per cent increase for pensioners. Where is this compared to the two-figure, brutal price increases in stores? in particular, that this increase may be even more in the case of food prices. So the government wants to save money again on people, on families, because, after the campaign, you can see that all of this, which was given to people mainly on credit, is being taken back. What's this if it's not austerity? It is also clear that the Fidesz government is still not helping those who already lack it. Many do not know how basic food will be bought from week to week next year. So this is the budget of insecurity. But if you have to take it away from people, the government won't hold back. In the budget of insecurity, there is only one thing that is certain: brutal austerity. They want to recover drasticly more of the tax and tax revenues that people face. You squeeze in more of any taxes that employees and pensioners pay, but you give back almost nothing. The government itself has provided evidence of this by not telling us for years how much it spends on welfare expenditure. The truth, of course, cannot be hidden, because however much prosperity they lie to the eyes of the increasingly poor, Fidest is easier to catch than the lame dog, because the numbers of the budget show the truth. Next year, only 23,6 percent of GDP will have a positive cost of living, which is a decrease compared to 24,6 percent this year. Do you know how much welfare spending was in 2010 during the economic crisis, during the work of the MSZP government? I'll tell you, 31.1 percent. So you will also cut back on all segments of welfare expenditure, as you will spend 37% of GDP on education, 14 percent on health care and 31 percent less on pensions next year than we did in 2010. Why don't you give an example when you mention the past, that almost a third of you spend less on welfare expenses than the MSZP did in 2010 to help the needy Hungarian families? At a time when the world was struggling with the biggest economic crisis of the eighty years before. What, on the other hand, is today under the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP, in a period of economic recovery worldwide? The majority of social benefits remain unchanged in the following year. Not a single forint has raised the amount of family allowance, child and child since they came to government, as the minimum pension remained humiliatingly low. Since then, these amounts have been reduced to a fraction due to inflation, the deterioration of the forint and the rise in food prices. How did Orbán say it in 2014? [[Sic!]] I quote: "The loss of money steals money from people's pockets, as the benefits of people living on wages and pensions are less and less valuable. If all of this was true then, it's ten times true now. Why don't you mention that? Or were they only so brave when they were oppositionists? Why aren't they doing anything about it when they're in government? Dear House, In the budget of insecurity, you write in black and white that you expect fewer children to be born. This is clearly seen, since they want to give less for maternity support, come on, come on, and even for nursery construction. It's written here, it's the Fidesz government's plan. The one-off maternity allowance for childbirth is reduced by 12 percent; it is less money, so it is less children. So, despite all the family protection plans, it's not family support. Apart from the Fidesn, everyone can see that this is the plan to let families down. Well, how should Hungarian families plan a future like this? ! This uncertainty? But for a positive example, you don't have to go too far. For example, Austria, which was not so long ago considered a crisis lab, receives aid equivalent to HUF 100,000 for all its inhabitants because of the price increases. The last time you referred to Austria was when you doubled your Prime Minister's salary, saying that he made too little money compared to the Austrian Chancellor. Even then, I didn't understand the connection. A nurse, a fireman, a policeman, a public servant, a salesman, a factory worker, a small contractor, wouldn't you make a little money compared to your Austrian colleague? [[12.20]] Yes, you can. They just can't double their salary with a pen stroke, no matter how much I deserve it. Therefore, we say that we should not only adjust the double salary of the Prime Minister to the Austrian situation, but also to the support of the people. The Fidesz government should not only ensure the well-being of Orbán, but also ensure the well-being of the Hungarian people. This is why the MSZP has developed a Life Safety Package in the form of a proposal amending the budget in order to really protect Hungarian families from slippage. And please don't tell me there's no money for this. We're experiencing a luxury we've never seen in every close-to-government tightrope that's never been seen in this country. The financial resources of this package can therefore be solved, among other things, from billions collected from fidesz oligarchs. But somehow, the Fidesz-KDNP is always thinking about a solution that only those actors involved in the crisis should contribute to the resolution of the opposition. But believe me, this will not be enough to address the situation if opposition parties and local authorities are to be sabotaged. In the current crisis, therefore, all fidesz oligarchs or, if you prefer, national capital classes should contribute to crisis management. Just one example: the 12 largest construction companies of the fidesz oligarchs had a turnover of HUF 1021 billion and HUF 1 million in 2021, with a large majority of public funds. The mining company of the Prime Minister's father achieved HUF 1.8 billion in taxes, which was again distributed: HUF 1800 million! I was taken out of the company. Well, what's extra profit if it's not? ! But somehow, they always stay out of the special taxes. It is clear, then, that there could be a tax on fidesz oligarchs. For 12 years, Fidesz billionaires have been richer with public and EU money. And then I didn't even talk about the Fidesz proposal in 2006, when they wanted to slim down state expenditure, to reduce the salaries of ministers, State Secretarys and State Secretarys to the 2002 level. Moreover, a proposal also made in 2006 would have taken some of the government members' salaries away as a punishment when the budget deficit was lost. Where are these suggestions today? ! But there is also another leg of collateral, namely: EU funds. Yes, I am talking about the subsidies for Hungary, which have been put at risk by the massive corruption. The richer countries of Europe can no longer stand to see these funds from the Hungarian budget landed directly in the private pockets of the national capital class, the fidesz oligarchs. We are talking about EUR 40 billion, my fellow members of the Government. Forty billion euros, 16 000 billion forints, 16 million forints! You're playing a quarter of GDP. Every Hungarian household could receive HUF 4 million from the Union if you didn't steal it. Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I will add my campaign proposal to the budget. I am initiating a zero-percent reduction of the VAT on public transport from the current 27 percent. This concerns everyone who uses the flights of MÁV, Volán, BKK, for example. This is possible under EU rules. Those who train, bus, tram, metro today in Hungary, last year they used ca. Forty-one billion forints of VAT were paid to the state. This is slightly more than half of the total VAT revenue for 2021. Why do we need zero-percent VAT in public transport? For example, a monthly pass from 9500 HUF to 7500 HUF in Budapest would cost only 6 thousand instead of 7700 in Miskolc. For example, a train ticket from Győr to Budapest would be about 650 HUF cheaper. With zero-percent VAT, it would be significantly cheaper for public transport users to get from one place to another, to work, to school, to the doctor, because many people have trouble paying the cost of travel at today's prices. Making public transport cheaper is good for everyone, and the cost of zero-percent VAT is almost rounding difference in the country's budget. Dear House, Finally, to sum up what has been said so far: it is quite clear that this budget will push the country's half in financial uncertainty, workers, pensioners, small businesses, families, almost everyone. Therefore, according to the MSZP, this budget should not be implemented, because it would be a crime against the whole country. But there is a solution: the MSZP's safety package brings relief to the budget of insecurity. These measures are measures to help families in real need that already exist in other countries. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Even Fidesz agreed with some of his proposals when he was opposition. So please support our amendments to the benefit of the people instead of the fidesz oligarchs. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-22-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr László Toroczkai is the lead speaker of the group of our countries. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. Come to the stand, because you have been informed that you will speak from there, and I will wait for you to rise. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Once again, the Hungarian Movement would like to be clear and clear, and I would also like to state right at the beginning of my speech that we are rejecting this budget, because this budget is again free after the budget of the multinationals, Endre Ady: the budget of the great lords with pig heads, the budget of the global corporations, and not the Hungarian people, not the Hungarian people, not the Hungarian nation's budget. It is sad to see from this budget that Fidesz still does not want to change the failed economic policy practice we have experienced here in Hungary for decades. Now, in the decades after the embezzled regime change after communism, it has been made very clear whether they were Balliberal governments or Fidesz-led governments, that here, in Hungary, economic policy is imagined not to build a Hungarian national economy, instead the multinationals can come and open the borders. In the past, they wanted to open the borders only to investment, to foreign capital, and now we see that they want to open the borders to the foreign, cheap labour force as well. We reject this and therefore cannot accept this budget in the first place. But then let's look at some specific figures about what I'm talking about when I say that this budget is a multi-annual budget. Yesterday I spoke about the global minimum tax, and we also saw that in this case we were able to support the government's ambition and the Hungarian veto because the first pillar that would have been applied to digital giant companies and technology companies was outdated, even though I said in my speech yesterday that, for example, Google's total income was four times as high as the total annual income of Hungarian public finances, so that everyone could see what we were talking about, what numbers, what amounts we were talking about. However, in the case of Facebook, which is very popular in Hungary and can seriously influence politics, they have twice as much revenue as the entire Hungarian state, the entire Hungarian public finances. So as long as these multinationals, these global corporations, benefit from the Government of Hungary and Hungary, we cannot support anything. If the Hungarian government opposes these, then you can expect to be able to support such proposals as a constructive opposition. But let us see that in this case, not only by reading through the budget, we see that again they are not included, let us say, the global giant tech companies, the Hungarian government is not trying to impose taxes on them in some way in national jurisdiction, but we see that they are limited in some way, but we see... let us look at some of the multinationals that are well-known in Hungary in addition to the above-mentioned digital multinationals, for whom it seems that the Hungarian government, at least this budget, wants to make discounts. It is here, isn't it, the Audi, which we have just learned from today's news that he wants to build another unit in the city of Győr. Audi is a very good, ectant example of what I said yesterday in my speech that there are a number of multinational global large companies operating in Hungary who are minus if we look at them from the point of view of taxes and public burdens. In the case of Audi, it can be said that in 2020 it simply exported 1800 billion forints from Hungary, bringing its capital down to the level of an average Hungarian company. But they're not the only ones we can talk about. Here, let's say the other flagship, the government, likes to refer to the Mercedes. [[12.30]] Mercedes, therefore, made a profit of €40 million in 2020 as early as the year when the crisis began to unfold, in the course of Covid's failed actions. This increased to EUR 67.5 million in 2021, when the crisis got worse. So it became more profitable, and Mercedes also made more profits in euros, while many Hungarian companies, many Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, were destroyed in Hungary, while Mercedes continued to increase its profits, and its profits grew very seriously. What is much more serious and shows the same thing as in the case of Audi, is that this increased profit was also fully exported to the parent company in Germany by Mercedes. This is not the support of the Hungarian national economy, when, let us say, we want to support the multinationals. On the other hand, we see, for example, that food prices have risen by 18.5 percent. This is not much to be said here in Parliament, because everyone, who is now listening to this speech in their own pocket, perceives it on their own wallet and experiences that if they go into the shop today, they will have to take a lot more money to buy, say, dinner or lunch. The reason for this is not only that the government still does not show a way to build a Hungarian national economy, but there are other reasons for this, for example, that when we look at the budget, we see that inflation estimates are too optimistic. The government's counting 5.4 percent, this budget is counting. Well, we know we have to think at least double the 5.4 percent right now. Obviously, this also has world policy and internal policy reasons, economic reasons why inflation is so high. But one thing is certain, this budget is probably deliberately more optimistic than what is real. So if inflation is not treated in accordance with reality, then it is a pity to talk about this budget, because then it turns out very, very much that what the government communicates in such a way as to say that there is more money for health or education to just highlight two of these important areas of expertise, then we see that there is actually less. Not to mention law enforcement, because there, if we don't watch inflation, the police will still be in a much worse situation, for example. As long as we cannot reassure the public from the point of view of public security, it is not possible to talk about how to live better, because if a person is robbed or broken into his house or, let's say, beaten to death, then obviously, even if he had more money in his pocket, his life in Hungary will not be better. So we are talking about very, very important areas, and let us take a few examples of this, too, so that we do not just talk in the air. Let's say we look at health care. In the case of health care, the government is very proud to communicate that there is 4 percent more access to health care, well, in fact, because of inflation, this means that much less if we expect, say, 10 percent inflation, then much less. In May, let's say, core inflation was more than 12 percent, to be exact 12.2 percent. So it is certain that in this case, too, we are saying that, in fact, the government will spend much less on health on the basis of the draft budget ahead. Speaking of health care and highly underpaid health workers, let me highlight two more figures. It was we, the Hungarian Movement, who, in recent years, have been able to present an alternative to the one sitting here at that time, that the Hungarian Movement did not sit here in Parliament, at least we didn't have a faction against all the parties, and we were the only ones who could make some alternative proposals, and now we can say that we were right about a lot of things after a few years, and maybe you can say that we were right about a lot of things. No matter what kind of debate we are having here in Parliament, people know very well that for example, vaccination has worked, vaccination has not worked, what side effects have become, what the coronal virus has caused, and the otherwise failed economic measures that Parliament has taken here in recent years. And what we can see is that the government didn't learn from this either, because, for example, the majority of the government planned HUF 18.5 billion for a vaccine factory, while HUF 7.7 billion for an epidemic treatment. We would be very curious, obviously we suspect that the 18,5 billion forints vaccine factory is, let's say, not about vaccination against monkeypox. I do not know if I would still like to produce the Chinese vaccine in Hungary now, after it can be seen that, by the way, many of the professors in the official mainstream media, whether in connection with the vaccination of the flock, or even about the fact that they said they might remember this earlier, said Professor Merkely, announced on billboards that the vaccination would stop the spread of the coronal virus. We know that they all proved to be lies, they were all wrong. If the government wants to produce the same vaccine about the 100 times mutated crown virus in Hungary, it is safe to say that the HUF 18,5 billion has already been thrown out of the window. Compared to this, the government plans HUF 7.7 billion for an epidemic treatment in the age of bioweapons. Well, this shows what amazing errors there are in the budget, and the fact that healthcare, where Hungary has spent much less than a number of other countries, whether in the region or in the Czech Republic, in this case even a specific reduction, is quite amazing and obviously unacceptable. Let's look at another area that's been in public for years. In addition to health care, there is the situation of education. The fact that in the case of education, we know that a beginner educator earns HUF 160,000 net, otherwise this is half the average wage of a graduate, it is also outrageous and unacceptable, and obviously this is not a way to talk about normal education, nor to talk about normal teaching. While, unfortunately, more and more anti-social children, this is probably due to subcultural reasons; it would also have been the task of Roma politicians in parliament, whether in the benches, fractions of Balliberal parties or in the Fidesz faction. Well, we do not see their ideas in the budget, for example, how many forints would be spent in the Roma or Gypsy community, for example, to catch up with children or not to act antisocially, to destroy education; or how, for example, they could be segmented, given special education by special educators engaged in these tasks only. The fact that we also see an awful lot of money, billions, for so-called gypsy municipalities and politicians is again considered to be the money thrown out of the window, but instead we should change the education policy. What we could have supported was that if the government had spent money on special education and special educators, we would not have wasted public money on the salaries of Roma or Gypsy politicians or on their various corruption cases. Remaining in education, we see that once again, the government could triumphantly announce that it was spending nine percent more on education. Once again, if we count inflation in a realistic way and not this 5.4 percent, very, too optimistic estimate, which the government is counting on in the budget, then we see that it actually spends less on education, but at least it doesn't spend any more because it doesn't want to spend any more. However, I just said that the 160,000 HUF teacher's wage is obviously totally unacceptable, an immediate increase in wages, not only in health care but also in education. And then let me highlight another very old branch: it seems that despite our efforts to engage constructively in certain national issues, the government is not interested in it at all, the governing parties are not interested in the proposals that are particularly important to Hungarians. After all, we have been saying for years that it is shocking that the government spends up to HUF 30 billion on the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, while it is actually a hidden migration, as they come to Hungary under the Stipendium Hungaricum programme, we are talking mainly about young people from African and South Asian countries, who then stay here either in Hungary or in other Member States of the European Union, but they rarely go back to Africa or, I don't know, Sri Lanka. And even though we have been asking the government for years to cancel this scholarship program and give it to Hungarian students, so spend it on Hungarian education, spend it on the support of Hungarian students either within the Trianon borders or outside the Trianon borders, but on Hungarian young people, Hungarian education. [[12.40]] So, of course, although we are not surprised, the government has not heard our proposal, nor does it support this, nor does it increase the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme by HUF 3.5 billion. Neither does the government care that in recent years they have failed regularly and have been caught in quotes from students from Nigeria, who, for example, were captured by the Hungarian authorities, by the police, during, say, the Sziget Festival during drug sales. Well, these are the kind of students we import into Hungary. We also find this unacceptable, no hidden or no hidden migration to be supported by the Hungarian Movement. I've just mentioned law enforcement, which could be linked to migration. The fact that we also expect them to risk their lives for our safety is outrageous for law enforcement workers to pay a police salary of HUF 160,000. Even though we are ringing the alarm bells, I personally told you, who personally experiences living on a farm near the southern border, that there is a huge need for more policemen in Hungary, or even for the return of the border guards, we do not see this in this draft budget. So the Hungarian government still doesn't want to think in the border guard despite the fact that it would be a great job in border areas, and that those living in our area would probably take this job with more knowledge and perhaps a different attitude than those cops who didn't. Whoever is brought from Borsod or Veszprém County to Szeged in Röszk, Morahalom or Asotthalom, he did not take this. He should take care of public safety in Veszprém County, Borsod County or Budapest, as there is a huge need for more police officers here in the capital. The border should be protected by border guards, but the government does not consider border guards in the draft budget. He still wants to carry out this life-threatening task with the police, which is increasingly a military task. I've spoken here in Parliament about this, and I've even made a video of it, I don't care how many more times the TSA will complain to the police or the Ministry of the Interior, we will continue to protect the border and help the police to protect the border. I also showed in video that there are heavily armed migrants at the border now, including police radio traffic, at home on my YouTube channel, that the reality of which is not spoken publicly, and when we see a machine rifle, of course this would not be a police task, but a military task. So we should at least meet a budget proposal for a militarized border guard, but we do not see it. On the other hand, they still want to provide police officers with border protection, not just a solution to public security, and HUF 4.8 billion less planned for law enforcement. This is totally unacceptable, and to be honest, I don't even know what you're expecting, because you're telling me a lot of times that the migratory pressure is increasing, the situation hasn't been resolved. Because of the low wages and salaries in Hungary, this does not mean that they will be workers in Hungary, as they are going towards Germany, Austria and other countries in a better economic situation. But it is also a public security problem throughout Hungary, especially for those living along the southern border, and it is also an economic problem. Speaking of economic problems and migration, I've been looking for the numbers in the budget that you want to compensate for, for example, farmers whose work is being destroyed by these migrants. I do not see any reserves of this kind; as far as emergency reserves are concerned, in the current global economic situation, we can safely say that they will be for someone else. There's gonna be so many problems you're gonna have to solve. Speaking of farmers, the price of food has increased by 18.5 percent, I have just mentioned this, and I have also said that this is the budget of the multinationals, the big lords with pig heads, and not the Hungarian budget. Let me add: I have been complained to by farmers about the fact that buying-in prices have either not changed or are even lower, for example, in the case of potatoes, a lot of people are experiencing this these days. Then who swallows the difference that Hungarians encounter when they go shopping, mostly in hypermarkets? Who swallows it? Once again, the multi, once again, the merchant you are, following the proposal of the Hungarian Movement, that I should say something positive after all this negative, is now being hit by special taxes. We have also said that we support this if it is not passed on to Hungarian consumers. In the present case, if the Hungarian farmer receives less or even the same amount and the purchase price does not change, yet we buy it in hypermarkets for more, then we use the suspicion that he will pass on the multi-tax to the Hungarian buyer. We also consider this unacceptable. With regard to the global minimum tax, I have also said that we continue to urge casinos to be hit by a special tax, all the more so, because casinos could pass this special tax on to a much smaller circle, much harder than airlines that I am not normally obliged to protect, but were more in the loss-making sectors during the Covid dictatorship. So I don't understand, I said this yesterday, and the debate between the Hungarian government and the manager of Ryanair is entertaining and, in some places, in an insatiable style. So we can also suggest areas such as casinos that could be taxed, but they are once again out of the special tax scheme as a fidesz concession. Obviously, we can't accept that. To mention something positive after all these negatives, let me say that we are pleased to see the direction in the draft budget, at least at the communication level, that the government wants to maintain family support measures. However, once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government is expecting a very optimistic estimate of inflation and, in fact, these family support measures, which, in many cases, do not reach those who deserve it, we have to expect a decrease precisely because of inflation. I'll give you a simple example. After three children, the family tax relief is 99 thousand forints. This should, in fact, be 234 thousand forints in real terms today. This is how much the situation has changed in Hungary since then, in fact this is also a reduction. We would like to make another very important proposal. In order to be three or four children, we need the first child, which is why we recommend that the government support the first child immediately in the future. We would also like to say that we are fully in favour of all traditional values, and we are not only in favour of them, but we are also fighting against those who want to destroy and eliminate traditional values, including the institution of the family. But the unfortunate reality of the government and the budget should also be taken into account that a lot of single parents are raising their children, and they should also be given much more priority support, because they may not be in such a situation of their own volition. That's what we're asking the government to do. I still need to talk about the employees of the state sector and the municipalities. I need a lot of stuff, but I won't be able to make it in half an hour. However, as a practicing mayor, I felt and experienced that the municipalities have been very underfunded in Hungary for many years. Honestly, sometimes I don't even understand how they can work at all, especially small settlements, where big local tax revenues can't be expected. We also needed all our creativity when I led the local government so that we could carry out our mandatory tasks at all. Compared to this, this budget again shows that the government does not want to deal with this, and does not want to solve the issues of the funding of municipalities. However, the government should, in particular, think about small settlements, and should also think that they will not be able to carry out their duties with such wages, with such salaries, and that we can not only think of municipal workers, but also of government officials, government commissioners and apologies to the staff of the Archbishop. The government offices and municipalities will eventually have operational problems, and they will not be able to carry out their duties. [[12.50]] There is basically a labour shortage in Hungary, but with such wages and such salaries there is nothing surprising about this, so we also object to this. In return, it may still belong to families to think that in Hungary, while Fidesz has been proclaiming and communicating for a very long time that the government of families, while a woman with a large family, can expect a 20 percent lower pension in Hungary today. We would also like to change that we do, that if someone retires, who has raised more children, and this was a very useful task for society, this is also rewarded or rewarded by the Hungarian state, because it is a cardinal question of how our demographic and demographic situation develops. That's what we miss about the budget. And then how do I say something for the rest of my few minutes that I do, then how would our country's movement imagine the future: we have a programme on this, the Virradat program, which includes, for example, the food crisis, as we have just mentioned. With the help of serious studies in the Virradat programme, and with the help of farmers otherwise practicing, we have created a programme that is the Hungarian food industry, for example, but let me stress this: it is about rebuilding the Hungarian food industry. At the time, when we calculated this, we saw that it would be possible to rebuild a functioning food industry with a large amount of revenue to the Hungarian state from approximately HUF 3000, up to HUF 4000 billion. Obviously, in addition to such inflation, the increase in construction and investment prices may have increased its price, but when we count the highest VAT in the world here in Hungary, when VAT is 27 percent, this should have been found a long time ago. We do not see any such complex concept of re-establishing the national economy in relation to the budget. As I began, I will conclude by continuing to see the government drifting with the flow, drifting with ever more tragic global economic and global political events, and not seeing in the budget that it wants to transfer funds to build a revolutionary national economy that does involve state intervention. We do need to push back the multinationals, and we do need to see that when a multi-group is lured here, even now, in the debate on the global minimum tax, we also said that when they want to attract multinationals to Hungary, it could only work by promoting multi-national production and, in addition, by supporting Hungarian businesses. We do not currently see this from the budget, which is why we reject the draft budget, and that is why we expect the government to finally do something for the Hungarians and do something for the Hungarian national economy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2022-06-22-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. [[Bence of Turdai rises to speak.]] Stay where you are, because otherwise, Congressman, you're here to tell me that you're here. [[Intercoms.]] So you don't need it here. I need the card. [[Tordai Bence: Can I go?]] Let's do it. Thank you very much. I apologize for this interlude, but this was necessary in so far as the leader of the Group of Dialogue Group indicated that he was present, so his card should be placed in his own voting machine. [[Bence Tordai enters the speaker's stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Dialogue Group also indicated that their group's position was presented by two of their speakers. First, I give the floor to the leader of the group of Bence Tordai. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The Orbán government must be very desperate because they can see that the house of cards that has been built in recent years is falling on them. But not only will the house of cards fall on them, but on all of us, because we are all going to be hit by the amazing size of the restriction that they put in the Orbán package. Lajos Bokros would lick his ten fingers, as Fidesz is preparing for a 7 percent GDP austerity in the next year and a half. More than HUF 4000 billion is being withdrawn from Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian municipalities, or taxes are being raised, yet again taxes that affect businesses, local governments and Hungarian families. Orbán is therefore packing, although not because he would buy his hat and want to leave, although it would be a demand, but because he sees that his popular policy so far can no longer be kept, and he packed a brutal package that will really hurt all Hungarians. Except for the fidesz oligarchs. 'Cause there was one thing they were taking care of when they were planning the cutbacks, and it was that the Butcher Lawrence didn't happen to take part in the extra charges. This is how the Orbáns imagined social justice. But they also made sure that people didn't care too much about the Orbán package, that they didn't care too much about the Fidesz restrictions, so they threw in some thick rubber bones. It is now possible to meditate on the fact that they really express their affection for feudalism or Horthy era when they want to vote for a county instead of a county, and instead of a government commissioner, they will be a high priest in Hungary. We understand the absurdity of this matter, all the more so, because even a few years ago, Fidesz-KDNP itself voted off the motions for this matter, they did not include it in their granite-solid Fundamental Law, the one-party fabric that József Szájer tagged on the plane on his iPad. So, you guys didn't think this was a joke before, you guys were trying to make a joke about this Archbishop thing, and now you're trying to get the attention off that meat-crushing austerity package that's now known to the general public as the Orbán package. Of course, they are also trying to present a budget in a less transparent way, and we have managed to fall below the level of Rwanda in budgetary transparency. Our deep respect is for Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, who is forced to give his face to this professional shame. I am very sorry, because Mr Secretary of State has been involved in the preparation of budgets for quite some time, and personally it must be very unpleasant to experience the fact that they have fallen so low and that political aspects dominate so much. [[Peter Benő Banai says no to his head.]] But what would we expect when, for example, this year's budget, no one knows what it looks like? After many dozen amendments, there is simply no place where the Hungarian government would publish the structure in which the Hungarian taxpayers spend their money, how much they spend this year. You can't see that. They rewrite it over and over again. The institution of the spring budget has failed, especially in a period of such serious crises, but you cannot admit your error, you cannot correct, you cannot re-establish or re-enter a better practice, and you can plan a budget with as much data, facts and knowledge as possible, so that we can at least be more reliable and secure in our knowledge of the economic outlook for next year. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Fidesz's economic policy and fiscal policy seem to have failed, even though it is still too optimistic, so the reality will be much cuter than that. Just a small example: next year, they expect HUF 2000 billion of EU money to flow into Hungary. I don't know, you have noticed that the European Union has recognised that Hungary is not a rule of law, there is a rule of law proceeding against the Orbán government, and until this is soothingly concluded, they will not give thousands of billion forints or EU taxpayers' money to Hungary. Once again, the Hungarian people, local governments and businesses are paying their dues, but you have irresponsiblely planned this amount for the future 2000 billion and almost this magnitude of revenue into the budget this year. Now there are two options. One of them is that they either get better, Viktor Orbán is suddenly a good guy, and he not only promises everything, as he has done so far, but also fulfills it, we join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, stop robbing public funds, clogging fidesz politicians and stromanos and oligarchs with public funds, and they are finally pursuing a policy of public law, respectfully and purely managing public funds, or there is no public money coming. I understand that while you are playing your little games and trying to blackmail the Union, part of this blackmail is that the minimum global tax, which has been supported so far, is now suddenly vetoed. We understand precisely that, after no new professional arguments were raised, Fidesz was very proud, even the Ministry of Finance issued a special statement on what a great agreement has finally been achieved in the case of the fair taxation of the global minimum tax, i.e. the largest global companies; it was not a professional turnaround, it was not a change of substance, but it was used only to extort Hungarian people's money for themselves. [[13.00]] But it is also a very optimistic budget when it says that the euro will cost an average of HUF 377 next year. This is a joke, fellow Members. We would also like EUR 377 very much, it would be very good if the Hungarian economy were strong, if the competitiveness of Hungarian companies in the export markets were not ensured by continuously devaluing the forint, but, well, there is no improvement in competitiveness, no increase in productivity, which is no wonder, because they do not invest in Hungarian society, people, grey stock, knowledge, there is nothing to improve competitiveness, so Hungarian competitiveness and productivity are shamefully low. By weakening the forint, they can only make Hungarian companies stand up to the external markets. Only on the other side is the price paid by Hungarian consumers, people, when they buy the consumer goods that are imported to a large extent. It's called inflation. The reason the prices have also run so fast is because it is extremely weak and the forint is constantly weakening, and people are making people pay for their economic policy that is causing the crisis. And these people, I don't think they're gonna laugh very well when you try to deceive them that the euro is now 400 forints, but next year, 377 is gonna be a joke! They are obviously preparing to rewrite these figures even this year, so the budget is based on completely unrealistic foundations. Economic growth above 4 percent is also an unrealistic basis, while the Hungarian economy is preparing to enter the ground with a nose. It is worth preparing for a stagflation period, when prices are racing, you have no intention of stopping the release of prices, because by inflectioning people's incomes they will try to balance the budget in a few years. But while inflation is on the move, the economic performance will deteriorate precisely because of the unpredictable nature of inflation. The economy will slow down, jobs and jobs will be lost. There will be no growth of over 4 percent, stagflation, dear colleagues, and this is not the type of non-growth proposed by the greens, which is about considering the actual needs to be met, the real desires and needs of people, so that the economy does not satisfy the artificially created needs that lead to nothing but the destruction of the Earth, the eradication of human civilization, and, of course, the production of certain status symbols. You are not thinking of this type of non-growth, because it is even worth thinking together about how to switch to an economy that respects our ecological limitations and meets the needs of society and meets the real needs of people. This should be the objective of subjecting the functioning of the economy. But, no, you guys are all about chasing profit and GDP, but it's not going too well either. Hungary is the second poorest Member State in the European Union. If we are not looking at GDP, which is a completely false figure, then if we want to talk about people's standard of living or find out something, but the actual individual consumption, the money that people can spend in the store, then we see that not only Slovakia, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovenia, but Romania have also stepped by us, the Baltic States have long since passed, and we are competing with Bulgaria for the last place. Hungary has become the second poorest Member State in the EU. And in this slippery, critical economic situation, there comes this incredible harsh austerity, the Orbán package. So I understand your desperation, you have every reason, we don't envy you, but we'd like to ask you not to make people pay the price of your failed economic policy, because for now they're preparing to stop paying taxes for fidesz oligarchs and international giant companies, but they do. They are prepared to tax the wealth, the private assets, the tens and hundreds of billions, and the consumption of small people will remain the world record. They are preparing for the super-rich to continue living their world, and indeed, people are paying the price for your crisis budget and economic policy. On the other hand, the Dialogue would like to see a green Hungary, and we are presenting package of fiscal amendments that lay the foundations for this fair, solidarity-based, safe green Hungary, which outlines its outlines. We believe that human dignity is the starting point; we believe that safety of life belongs to everyone; we believe that there really is no way to leave anyone on the side of the road, and therefore this year, as in previous years, we are submitting the basic income budget. We show that we can rearrange thousands of billions, not just you, except that we have the rich paying, and the poor are in a much better income situation, unlike your system. We will also present the budgetary amendments showing how green Hungary will be sustainable in both socio-economic and ecological terms, how to invest, not in concrete and steel, but in human knowledge, social systems and the programme of restoration and preservation of the environment, and even to transform the economy into a more sustainable way of working. This is what the Green-Hungary programme and budget package are all about. This is part of the basic income, which guarantees security of life, and this is part of the hundreds of billion-dollar green development, primarily the greening of households and, secondly, the greening of the economy, which is covered, paid by the rich, paid by the global multi-enterprises in our scenario, and which is why we recommend this to you kindly, because we can see where the resources are, how a fairer, more solidarity-based budget can be made, how to involve those who can bear the public burdens and how to protect those who have already found the burden of the Orbán package to be too difficult. So we call on everyone, including the pro-government colleagues, to create this green Hungary. Accept our proposals, not to oppress those who already have a hard life, but to pay the rich, and to get more support from public sector workers, low-income people, hard-lived families, the elderly, the sick and everyone who needs it. And exactly what changes we plan to make, and that will be discussed by Szabó Timea, co-president of the Dialogue. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-22-34	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, another lead speaker in the Group of Dialogue, who also wishes to give her speech on the pulpitus. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-35	Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said here, the budget for 2023, i.e. next year, is the budget for austerity. There is a thousands of billions of HUF Orbán package in front of us right now, which is the biggest restriction of the last 30 years, and which will bring the greatest suffering for the Hungarian people over the last 30 years, i.e. the change of regime. You and Viktor Orbán in Fidesz know this very well, but they do not say that we should pull our own belts then; they do not say that it is good, so we have been winners of this non-government for 12 years, this misguided economic policy, but they want to hurt people now. They are not reducing their own salary as proposed by the Dialogue, but they are raising Viktor Orbán's salary, they are raising Viktor Orbán's salary from HUF 1.5 million to HUF 3.5 million a month when teachers, health workers and social workers are not getting a raise this year, and this is exactly what we see in the budget next year. With the Orbán package, Fidesz wants to make people pay for the crisis. The budget of 2023 will therefore, let us say it, bring the biggest livelihood, housing and food crisis between Viktor Orbán and Fidesz for the Hungarian people. But let's look at the details. It was very interesting to listen to Minister Mihály Varga this morning, who said that again this year the wages of workers in the public sector have increased greatly. Well, let me disprove that for you now, and let's see, I always carry the pay signs you've published. [[He's showing me a document.]] the social pay billboard, the health pay billboard and the education pay billboard. [[13.10]] Let's look at the wage bill of health workers once again, based on the wage bill published by the government, how much a beginner nurse earns today. A beginner without a diploma brings home 170 thousand forints net, but also a non-graduate nurse after 30 years of employment, i.e. after working a life, takes home a net of 190 thousand forints. This is your payroll. A graduate beginner brings home 220,000 and 310,000 forints after 30 years. By the way, the starting wage is not the most outrageous and we see the same in the fields of education and the social sphere, but the difference between the starting wage and a 30-year employment relationship is 30 thousand forints. If you work 30 years in the public sector, you will receive 30,000 forints more today than you received as a starting educator or health worker. If we look at the social sector payroll, it's even worse. So we're talking about daycare workers and workers who care for our elderly parents, a starting net salary of HUF 150,000, after 30 years 180, with a diploma of HUF 200,000, after 30 years, forint 260 thousand. After a worked life, a man working in an elderly home brings home 260,000 forints. That's what Antal Rogán spends on a weekend! That's what you submitted because there's no wage increase in next year's budget. Now, this is the big family support program you guys have been performing in today's budget debate. How many times have we heard about the family support system? I'm just wondering who exactly is being helped by this family support system other than your families. We know that Judit Varga, for example, happily recorded 10 million forints of CSOK on his holiday home, completely illegal. We do not see very much that other families have been helped by the governance of the last 12 years or by the amounts in the budget for next year. Teachers also bring home 240,000 forints while the schools are emptying out. Mihály Varga mentioned the medical staff separately. He emphasized how much more money residents bring home. But, interestingly enough, he didn't even dare mention the therapists for a reason. From the pay signs I have read, it is clear that it is so embarrassing, so outrageous, that there has been no increase in wages and how there will be no increase in wages next year, that he can no longer say it. Mihály Varga said this morning that health expenses were quadrupled. Let's take a look at this. This year, some were set aside for wage increases, but nothing next year, it is quite clear. According to the KSH data, in 2010, 7.4% of healthcare was spent in proportion to GDP, while in 2021 only 6.3 percent of GDP was spent. So it's actually reduced! When an economy grows, there is a need to spend more on health care, education, social spending and no less. You have to spend it on people. When we talk about health expenses and social expenditure, we talk about honoring the people who live here. But that's not what you did. You raised your own salary and raised Viktor Orbán's salary. By the way, the EU average is 7 percent, but what is even more outrageous than this 6.3 percent public spending, is that what the state is actually paying, so what we are not paying out of pocket, is reduced from 5 to 4.3 percent. So the state spends 4.3 percent of GDP on health care, which is one of the lowest in the European Union. So don't tell me how much health expenditure has increased in the last year and how much it will rise next year because it's not true. We know that private health has been strengthened, that your friends have been outsourced private health care, but the problem is, in a crisis, those who are now accustomed to private health care won't be able to pay for it either. They're gonna go back to state care, and the system's gonna be even more overwhelmed than it is right now. And the problem, my fellow Members, is that this will affect you, because you can now go on a diagnostic examination of your large salary into private health, but if it turns out you have cancer, if it turns out you have some very serious heart problem, and you no longer treat it in private health, then you can go abroad because public care will not be able to provide it. The 30-40 million forints it costs may be too much for your pockets, let alone for the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people stay here with waiting lists that meant 25 thousand more people in March 2020 and 41,000 people in September 2021. 41,000 people are waiting to be examined in Hungary today. The situation in the field of education is not better either. But one more thing for the health issue: in 2020, 17,000 workers went from the health area. Think about what that means. Change this budget because there's going to be a disaster in health care here. And then a few words about education. You talk about how big wage increases have been in education as well. But they forget to say that in education, wage increases are tied to the minimum wage level of 2014. Compared to this, there was a 10% wage increase, while a 50% wage increase would be needed immediately in education. We know that there are over 2,000 teachers missing from the system. You can joke about that, you can't take this seriously, but we know your kids go to private school, private school. I know a minister whose kid goes to a private kindergarten in private school. I'm not gonna give you names because it's their personal business. But that's not the problem. It's the fact that you guys are ruining education and then taking your own kids into your own hands. Yeah, well, my kid doesn't have to go through that dirty word, I don't know what kind of education system he's in. The child of the Hungarian man who can't afford it will go there. That's why you guys are very mean with the government of the last 12 years, and what you've done with next year's budget. And then Sándor Pintér, in a private briefing, says a wage increase? There won't be a raise. You'll be lucky if there's no withdrawal. I don't know what wage increases you're talking about in Fidesz and the government, because Sándor Pintér said the opposite, and that there will be order in education and schools. I'm reporting there's order in the schools, but there's no teacher in the schools. And that's the biggest problem. Mihály Varga said that there was a 5% wage increase in law enforcement agencies, and how refreshing it was when the price of bread increased by 40 percent. And you know it. So they ignore the Hungarian people. They're putting a livelihood crisis around people's neck that they haven't seen in the last 30 years. And then László Parragh, the Fidesz president of the Industry Chamber, says it's okay because the police and firemen will be driven by adrenaline. Well, push your adrenaline, cut your own salary, and value your teachers, health workers, social workers and law enforcement workers. Once again, you are bringing the biggest livelihood, housing and food crisis in the last thirty years with the Orbán package and with this budget proposal from 2023. Let's take another look at the housing. Apartment prices in Hungary have increased by 90 percent, i.e. almost double in the last ten years, but so have the prices of the apartments, and they have done nothing about it. There was no rental program, there was no help given to Hungarian people. Let's take a look at the area of social services. In 2010, 22 per cent of GDP was paid and 18 per cent in 2021. So it's reduced, too. The family allowance has not increased since 2010. People with disabilities, whom we watch with their families, affect 2 million people in Hungary. They're not helping them either. Only one third of people with disabilities receive any kind of financial or in-kind benefits in Hungary. This is not a support programme for families; while we see that next year's budget has earmarked lots for 16.5 billion MotoGPs. Well, this is really important. Or 100 billion for government communication; for MTVA again 110 billion forints; for Paks II, in which not even a hoe was cut, 150 billion for railway development, which we know is the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, 200 billion forints. That's not what you're spending it on. It's not about spending money on Chinese investors, and it's not about stealing money, it's about giving it to the people. [[13.20]] On the other hand, the Dialogue proposes, on the one hand, that we strongly reject the Orbán package, that we strongly reject this austerity budget for 2023. You don't have to save money, you have to pay the rich and help the people. The Dialogue suggests that the so-called extra-profit tax... we know that people are being beaten down by multi-company companies, because we already see the comic dialogue that takes place between, for example, Márton Nagy and Ryanair. We see that the food chains, the travel multinationals, are also putting this on Hungarian people; it is not the multinationals who pay for it, it is the people. But if you're going to have the multinationals pay for it or the big companies, then you're going to charge this extra profit to casinos and casinos, and you're going to charge it to your construction multi-businesses, which you've been filling with billions of dollars in the last 12 years. We need to reduce the salary of you and the ministers by 20%, which we just submitted on behalf of the Dialogue, to introduce the Tiborcz tax, to tax luxury yachts, private jets and the richest, the 60 Puszta estates. It is not for you, once again, to help, but for the Hungarian people! With this money, which we save, we have to spend on wage increases in the public sector, the wage increase that has not been seen since 2010. In addition, start a rental program, because today's young Hungarians have no place to live. There's a housing crisis, there's energy poverty, people who don't heat gas, they can't heat in winter, there's going to be poverty and there's going to be poverty in North-East Hungary that we haven't seen in the last 30 years. They're the ones who need help. In 2010, you promised an energy efficiency, renovation programme, promised to increase by 10 percent a year, or to renovate 10 percent of all housing stocks. Compared to this, this money was stolen, redirected to public buildings, and even redirected to tobacco companies. It's not for them to help, it's for the apartments to be renovated so we can achieve a real 70 percent reduction. To sum up once again, this budget of 2023 is the budget for austerity, the budget for the Orbán package. Instead, the Dialogue recommends paying the rich, helping the people, the workers, the fallen and the poor. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, Momentum and LMP.]]
u2022-06-22-36	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, who also wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-22-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2023 budget is an important budget, in many ways more important than any budget for the last 12 years. There may be no dispute between the government and the opposition that we now have to adopt a law that will determine the country's most important year in the middle of a serious crisis. In addition, in our view, we are talking about a crisis because we are living in times of crisis, which is not a small swing, not a glitch within the system, but after which nothing will be the same. We are at the beginning of a new period, and this budget should prove that the government has recognised everything and prepared the country for what awaits us. Unfortunately, on the basis of the draft before us, we can say that this is not the case, it is not so. The sole purpose of the government is to deny change, to make itself and the voters believe that the world will be as it was next year at the latest. He's not just trying to freeze the price of certain products, he's trying to freeze everything. This budget proves that the government looks to the past instead of to the future, and all such great reorganizations will be won by those countries who quickly recognize what the new world will be like. However, the Hungarian government's faith in its own perfection is too strong to deal with small things like changes in the world. Our opposition has raised us to be modest. However, we would do an experiment to understand what changes are taking place in the world and what the biggest challenges facing Hungary are, because we, as opposed to the government, want to find solutions to problems and not desperately look for solutions to posters. [[János Halász: Oh, my God!]] If we approach from the problems, then we can identify three major problems that the budget for next year will have to answer. The first is the question of justice. Today, our daily life is determined by a crisis, and unfortunately, there is a good chance that it will remain with us for a while longer. This crisis was not primarily caused by the government, although it obviously added its share to the runaway inflation by distributing electoral money. But if the government is only partly responsible for the reasons, the answer is entirely his responsibility. It is his responsibility, because a crisis is always an extra burden for a society, and it is the government's responsibility to bear the extra burden. It is not written in stone that it is necessary to fight as a lion to keep Hungary a tax haven for foreign corporations even in the middle of such a crisis, while we are without saying that the monthly wages of civil servants will be taken away by inflation. This shouldn't be the case, it's the result of the government's decisions. This budget is unfairly dividing the burden, but it is easy to change that, and it should simply be adopted by another budget. Although the document we are discussing now contains more numbers, there is actually a very clear social and economic vision behind the numbers. However, if we accept the instructions given by Viktor Orbán to Fidesz's policy and not look at what they say, but look at what they are doing, it is quite clear that the current governing party is a committed believer in neoliberal economic policy, and in this belief they have not been shaken by the current crisis. For 12 years, Fidesz has been working to make large foreign companies feel as comfortable as possible in our country, they almost do not have to take part in public burdens, because the minimum corporate tax they pay will be refunded with a little exaggeration in the form of tax incentives. However, employees' rights have been consciously wiped out by the Hungarian government almost to the last straw in the last 12 years, so everything is given to exploitation. However, the biggest problem is that there is no foreign multinational in the field of exploitation of workers that can reach even close to the Hungarian government. Today, the government is clearly the worst employer in Hungary, and this dubious triumph has been more confident in the circumstances of the current crisis. In the last campaign, Fidesz flashed the mirage that, at any level, he felt responsible for his own employees, but after the elections, it quickly turned out that this was just a trick, because, in fact, in line with a normal neoliberal government, every forint spent on public wages was considered a waste of money. It is no coincidence that it has already been announced that while war is being waged against the global minimum tax to prevent the tax evasion of multinational companies, tens of thousands of people are about to be fired from the public sector. In fact, it is a terrible government, which, of course, is trying to completely occupy and dominate every part of the state and act like a party of state, but still, it is truly convinced that the state is an extremely bad thing, the smaller, the better. This is an unfair budget, my fellow Members, and it could not be anything else, because neoliberalism does not believe that the state can do justice, and it entrusts all of this to the market. We think very differently about that. Our conviction is that the state's job is not to strengthen social differences, but to try to make them disappear. We do not think it is right that, either from the reduction of the overhead or from the petrol stop at nominal level, there will be a much higher share of the upper ten thousand people who are heating the pool and fueling the SUV than those who really need it. We believe that the state must set a positive example in the labour market, not give lessons to multi-enterprises for exploitation. We think that public employees should be paid much better, because the state will only be able to provide better services if the employee is paid. [[13.30]] We do not think that it is the right way for the state to turn Hungary into a tax haven, and in the process it will completely destroy the state, because a country will come a little further east, which will undertake to give even less money to the teacher, even less to deal with the care crisis, it will run an even worse health system, but it will bring the corporate tax down to 8 percent, and it will give more tax incentives to the multinationals. And then these companies will suddenly appear as if they weren't there, and we'll be left out of business, because we won't have competitive knowledge because of the education that we've lost in tax competition, because of the disintegration of health care, and we won't be able to take part in the labour market anyway, because everyone at home is going to care for their sick or elderly relatives instead of the government that's going to go into tax competition. A crisis is always the easiest country to survive, where the hardest ones don't get on the streets, where the loans don't fall, where, of course, everyone pulls their belts, but nobody loses their pants. To do so, we need to spread the costs of the crisis evenly. That is exactly what our amendments will aim for, a fairer crisis management. A crisis management where capital does not overtake people, where the profits of large companies are no more important than the livelihood of civil servants for a moment, a country where it is not clear that the more socially useful work is done, the less it earns, where the government does not provide the most support for the most able, but for those who need it the most. Dear House, In this context, we will propose that the wages of civil servants will automatically increase at least by the rate of inflation next year, because we find it totally unacceptable that the public sector is often paid below HUF 200,000, and we do not consider it normal that a beginner educator earns half as much as a store loader. Believe me, we are not dealing with the latter, we are very happy that the market wages have started to rise, but we find it completely abnormal that public wages do not follow this at any level. We now consider it an insulting category that, while the status of civil servant is synonymous with bad salary, even in such a crisis, the government is abandoning its own employees completely. Lower salaries could be compensated with greater certainty, at least saying that public employees are less vulnerable to crises than on the market. But this is not the case in Hungary. The Hungarian government has done nothing, and on the basis of the budget, it will do nothing to ensure that state workers are paid. In practice, we find that a month's wages for workers have been taken away by inflation. We've talked about 13 months' salary before, but at the moment, we're talking about 11 months' wages for 12 months' work. We will propose that next year we increase the wages of all civil servants by at least the rate of inflation, not just next year, but let us say that, like pensions, civil servants' wages always maintain their real value. Let us say that the state cares and listens to its own employees, and sees not only an opportunity in such a crisis to fire a few tens of thousands more, and a few tens of thousands of others to change professions as far as possible. Moreover, this is also a responsible proposal for the budget. At any time inflation increases, the government's financial scope will automatically increase, for example, teachers, social workers or civil servants will pay much more VAT. Inflation makes the government richer and people poorer. The government would have plenty of money to protect its own employees, and you would recognise that in the budget, when only HUF 1600 billion of additional revenue is expected at the level of VAT revenue. In addition, inflation is usually, and is, deliberately underdesigned every year to increase their so-called margin of manoeuvre. The only thing missing is political will for the state to return this extra profit to those who have been harmed by inflation. Of course, wage increases to compensate for inflation are just the beginning. The public sector's wage situation needs to be corrected, and this is not a task that must or may be postponed due to the crisis. For one thing, we've been putting it off for at least 12 years. On the other hand, this is the step that needs to be taken even more in such a crisis, because remember that the fairer a society operates, the easier it will be to survive such a crisis, and the more we pay our civil servants, the better the state will work, the better health care, social care, education, the better the country will ultimately work. It's hard to imagine a better investment than that. We will propose that next year we pay around HUF 600 billion in public sector wages, end completely unjustified wage differences, end payments below HUF 200,000. You have to pay the teachers, the social workers, the health workers, the public servants, because they run this country. But if you're gonna pass, you're gonna have to say "bet," so let's be honest about collateral. We believe in solidarity, we believe in a just society, and that is why we believe in a progressive tax system. We believe that those who earn more must take on more of the public burden in their proportions. Fidesz believes in progressive division, which means that those who earn more get more from the state. At last, if we go in a direction that requires a more proportionate contribution from the larger earners, we may get to the point that, for the first time in 12 years, differences will not increase, but decrease. And, yes, we believe that, especially in the case of large assets, there is a need for property taxes. We understand that Fidesz believes in the opposite, and would like to use the state's money to make as much private assets as possible, but we would rather ask the owners of large private assets to take a greater share of the joint. Just as we're going to ask the biggest companies for a bigger contribution, because as we said, profit can never get ahead of you. And not just some arbitraryly selected companies, but everyone. We would ask for a greater contribution from car manufacturers, the companies of large capital, called national capital, which are growing in the form of mushrooms, in short: we would eliminate the nature of Hungary's tax havens. We would trace back and set the upper corporate tax rate at 25 percent, thus increasing the revenue of the state by hundreds of billions of HUF. Greater profits should be a higher tax and this principle must be enforced. It is not possible, Mr Secretary of State, that Audi will pay a profit tax of less than 1 percent for hundreds of billion forints. It is not possible, Mr Secretary of State, that Richter will pay a profit tax of 0.03 per cent on the profits of nearly HUF 200 billion. So after 140 billion forints of profit, he doesn't even pay the price of an apartment in Budapest in a profit tax. Nor can it be more that MOL's profit before tax is lower than it was after tax. Thus, after tax and this must be included in a quotation mark, it has a higher profit than before tax. Fidesz wants to hide the problem of the care crisis, we want to face it and get to the solution, because in our view it is not possible to settle this with so much that it is the responsibility of the family to care for elderly patients. Because, of course, the family has a responsibility, but these people have paid taxes all their lives to ensure that the state will take care of them if they are unable to do so themselves, and this state, as a bad fraud, now does not keep its word, and this will affect the labour market after a while, because there will be no one to work if everyone at home is caring for relatives in accordance with their family duty. The crisis of care has developed over many years and cannot be resolved overnight. However, we expect us to take a step in the right direction as early as 2023, so we would change the budget for next year in such a way that, on the one hand, as I said earlier, there should be money to pay social workers, in the context of general public wage planning, and on the other hand, the home care fee should be increased. [[13.40]] If people are already doing the job of the state, then at least the state should acknowledge this work. This costs approximately HUF 40 billion, and we would take the money from public media support of HUF 109 billion and government propaganda for symbolic reasons. We need public media, but I'm sure it's not like that, and it's definitely not that much. And in the crisis of care, action is needed, please respectfully, not propaganda. In fact, inflation and the social crisis that goes hand in hand with it are a result. The underlying reason for Fidesz's economic policy is the energy crisis. We already know the answer to Fidesz. Fidesz's answer is the official price, the biggest problem is that it can't stay forever. This isn't about a temporary outburst. The period of cheap energy is over. The winners of the next period will not be those where raiders and scouters will put their hands on some of the supply of natural gas on sale. With this skill, the solution to the problem can only be delayed, i.e. it is with great confidence that you will be left behind in the competition. The winners of the future will be those who are able to produce the necessary energy in the most sustainable way possible and use the energy produced as efficiently as possible. In this respect, Hungary is one of the driving forces throughout the European Union, which is no wonder, of course, because we have been going in the wrong direction in the last decade, with increasing speed and greater confidence. We're heating the street with Russian gas, while we're almost the most dependent on energy exports. We could grow a lot of it ourselves, but we buy it expensive, and then we throw it out the window. This is the government's energy strategy based on the last 12 years. The failure of a decade can no longer be compensated, but there is still a possibility that the mistakes of the past will not be the sins of the future. We don't expect them to say out loud that we were wrong, that we didn't see the woods from the tree. We do not expect a confession, only that they should finally act, and since it is difficult to move from denial to green solutions suddenly, so we have also prepared concrete proposals, the greening could start in the next year's budget if there was a will. We would be the first to launch a construction insulation program of HUF 300 billion a year, which has only an advantage. First of all, it reduces energy demand because it is simply necessary to buy less Russian natural gas or American shale gas, and secondly, it is a real reduction in the cost of electricity, as it significantly reduces household expenditure. In addition, we would distribute this money on a social basis, compared to the last 12 years, not the richest, but the poorest would get it first. Moreover, the building insulation programme creates jobs while significantly reducing air pollution. The only one who really has a business interest in using fossil energy is the one who says no. It is regrettable that the Hungarian government and its economic hinterland belong to this category. In our view, it makes more sense to spend on building insulation than to heat the pools of the Buda villas with reduced prices of overhead. We would not be able to maintain the reduction of the costs above the average consumption. The amount thus saved would be spent on a permanent reduction in overhead, i.e. building insulation. If we use less energy, it is progress, but it is better to produce as much of that little as possible at home. Therefore, in our view, it is not necessary to prohibit and tax the deployment of renewable energies, but to support them. We do not see this happening in next year's budget, although due to under-planned inflation, higher VAT revenues and HUF 150 billion for Paks II investment could be spent on this project for HUF 300 billion a year. Project Paks II failed. This nuclear power plant will never be built, but to deny it in despair, it spends a few hundred billion a year. The period of cheap fuel is over, and Fidesz can only cover this temporarily. We do not want to take mobility away from people, but rather to give them the means to implement it in a sustainable and efficient way, and to accept that the future is not for the car, but for public transport. We need to use the crisis to speed up this transition, and the more people we move from car to train, bus, metro, the more we succeed, the better we prepared Hungary for the transition. In view of the energy crisis, we recommend that the single, nationally available HUF 5 000 air-conditioning lease for all public transport means be available throughout the year. This is a cheap, sustainable and accessible alternative for everyone. And the cost of all this will be well covered if we transfer the non-green air traffic tax here. If we spend less next year on the motorways of the Fidesz Moon Station, and, as I said earlier, we raise the upper rate of corporate tax and collect more taxes from, for example, the multinationals that are filling our country more and more, then we have the source. In addition to the social crisis and the energy crisis, the third major crisis that we are facing is the food crisis. There comes a world where the more self-sufficient a country, the safer it is, and even though we are an agricultural country, it is still the case that a significant part of Hungarian families are healthy, quality and Hungarian food simply priceless, mainly because most of the state subsidies spent on it are in the pockets of various agricultural barons. In the first step, the state must make less money on basic food in the middle of such a food crisis. It is not okay for the state to raise money because of the increased VAT revenues, while hundreds of thousands of people have become unattainable luxury products for tomatoes and peppers. Therefore, the VAT on basic foods must be reduced, the waste of state land must be stopped, while next year's budget will amount to HUF 300 billion. Finally, we need to get to the point where we tax the agricultural barons, and we really support small and local farmers. Unfortunately, the budget you have submitted does the opposite. Last but not least, in the eyes of Fidesz, the green surface is only an opportunity to make money. The forest, the lake, nature is just a set for another hotel or tourist investment, from which the economic hinterland can fill its pockets. You want to look in green areas, we'd rather spend it. In our view, it would take some HUF 150 billion next year to carry out the expropriations necessary for the green-area moratorium, to re-own our most important natural values, such as the coastal lanes of our larger lakes. You do not intend to do this, because the environmental institution system has been abolished in recent years in order to turn natural value into profit without any more attention. As I said at the beginning, an important budget could be the budget for next year, since it would be necessary to respond at the same time to the social crisis, the energy crisis and the climate crisis that led to the inflation crisis. It is a trying task, but it is sad to say that, in the light of next year's budget proposal, we will not be able to jump on it, and we will not even see any partial success. This is the budget of change, the only goal of which is to preserve the past in Hungary as a permanent exhibition. Fidesz simply eliminates the challenges ahead of us from its own reality, offering unchangeability, while responding quickly to the new situation in order to succeed. This budget is unfair, because the additional burden of the crisis is mostly borne by earners living below the average, while large companies and the richest in the country are barely involved in public burdens. This budget does not even attempt to solve the crisis of care. This budget is the final proof that if there is a green policy, it is the opposite of the current government's policy, since it does not spend on greening even in the middle of the fossil energy crisis. Overall, this budget does not want to solve Hungary's problems, but tries to cover them up and cover them. In our view, we needed a budget that would make our country fairer, more self-sufficient and more sustainable. The government's proposal is inadequate. However, we are trying to prove that, during the negotiation of the proposal, a budget could have been created under the current circumstances, capable of solving the three above tasks at the same time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the lines of LMP and DK.]] [[13.50]]
u2022-06-22-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Now the speaker invited by the committee representing Hungarian minorities will present the Committee's position within a total of 20 minutes' time frame. I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a representative of nationality, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-22-39	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/152. über den ungarischen Haushalt für Jahr 2023 im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere.???]] [[???Wie es schon gewöhnt ist, wenn es gesagt werden kann, fange ich wieder meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt: „Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt beleidigen.”???]] Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the T/152 on the central budget for 2023. Bill No. 1 concerning the parts of the legislation concerning the needs of the nationalities. My comment to the draft budget law, if you can say so, has now traditionally started with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which reads in Hungarian as follows:, The tolerance can only mark a temporary state, which should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. So acceptance is not enough; only acceptance is an insult in itself. We want more, we expect more: recognition. Our ancestors' lives have provided a sufficient basis for recognition, and we are still working for it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. Therefore, allow me to start with my comments on the draft central budget law for 2023 for the last eight years, with a look back for the last two cycles. I do this because in the new Parliament there are factions and many Members who did not participate in the work of Parliament in previous cycles, so I think it is important that they receive a comprehensive information on the 13 nationalities native to Hungary. So let us look back at the situation in which the nationalities living in Hungary were in the beginning of the first minority parliamentary term, i.e. in 2014, in what and how we have been able to move forward in the last eight years, where we are, what goals we have, what tasks we have to solve to achieve them. Without due review and knowledge of all of this, it is not possible to give a realistic assessment of the past years or of the national needs relating to the central budget for 2023, to address them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. (László Földi in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. András Aradski.) More than eight years ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that this first minority Parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament a great deal more than twenty years ago, so we have to eliminate decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be marked as to the conditions under which nationalities living in Hungary have been forced to live and operate for decades. Just as an example and as a reminder: 1. The so-called NMZ frameworks available for the operational support of national minority civil society organisations to support national cultural programmes from 2002 to 2014 have not changed for 12 years and only covered a fraction of the incoming needs of 10-15 percent. 2. The annual budget for the native language student camps was so low compared to the needs that it was practically pointless to apply. On the basis of a minority child, the tender framework at that time was sufficient for two dumplings of ice cream a day. 3. On average, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments was HUF 222 thousand per year, corresponding to HUF 14 500 per month net. 4. Economic, financial and administrative costs of national minority self-governments continued to increase without increasing subsidies, with changes in public finance legislation and various legal requirements. In summary, it should be said that until 2013, the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a deplorable state, and this is still a very fine expression of the actual situation at the time. However, from 2013 onwards, there have been very positive changes that have been encouraging. On the one hand, the most important and positive change in 2013 from a nationality point of view was, without a doubt, a significant increase in the support of the national minority public education institutions maintained by the national authorities and became normative. On the other hand, by re-establishing the capacity of local minority self-governments to take over and establish institutions, legal opportunities have been opened for the development of national cultural and educational autonomy. With the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation was granted to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which opened up new opportunities and a new period for us. The first serious result of Parliament's representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by raising the previously less than HUF 4 billion and the unchanged funding framework for a decade and a half by HUF 2 billion and more than 50 percent. In the last eight years, despite the absence of an increase in support in the crisis caused by the pandemic in 2021, we have been able to achieve substantial improvements in the following areas. 1. The operating and cultural support funding framework of national minority NGOs, which was 110-110 million forints, we were able to increase it to 500 and 700 million forints, i.e. about five and a half times. 2. In 2014, we were able to raise the 30 million forints, or more than 13 times more than 400 million forints. I would add that we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated the mother tongue student camps as a top priority, and even this 13-folded framework covers only part of objective, realistic needs, still only about 30-40 percent. 3. We have increased the overall operating support of local minority self-governments by fourfold, the so-called task-based differentiated support framework, by two and a half times. 4. In 2015, 2017, 2019 and 2022, we were able to substantially increase the support of national minority authorities and the institutions maintained by national minority media and national minority authorities, and thus to address the most pressing financing problems of the operation. [[14.00]] 5. We have been able to set up and provide a complementary framework for national minority support in areas such as support for national theatres, support for the maintenance and ownership of national minority public education institutions maintained by local ethnic authorities, or the opening of a framework for investment, renewal and participation of national minority public education and cultural institutions operating in the maintenance of national minority self-governments and associations. (Daniel Z. Carpathian in the notary seat) Replaced by Bakos Bernadett.) 6. Last but not least, what we consider to be of particular importance for our national minority future is the results of the national education programme. I am pleased to report that, as the first point of the national minority educator programme developed in autumn 2016, in order to better appreciate national minority educators, we have increased the minority teacher bonus from 10 to 15 per cent on 1 January 2018, from 15 to 30 per cent on 1 January 2019 and, finally, from 30 to 40 per cent on 1 January 2020. Thus, in two years, with three amendments, we have increased four times the nationality allowance for national minority teachers who teach and raise at least 50 percent of their committed time in ethnic languages. At the same time, as of 1 January 2020, we introduced two lower levels, i.e. after the three-time increase, a lower bonus category of 25 per cent and 10 per cent for those who had not previously received a nationality allowance. Thus, all ethnic educators now receive a nationality allowance, and in addition, differentiatedly, in proportion to their work in education and education in the language of nationality. I think it is important to emphasise that all ethnic teachers of all nationalities, regardless of the maintenance of the national minority allowance, have received it, and that the wage coverage of the national minority bonus increase was not to be managed under another framework, so to speak, but received it as a budgetary surplus each year, and will continue to be received in the future. As a result, the increase in national minority allowances has already provided and will ensure an additional income of nearly HUF 3.5 billion for some 4 000 ethnic teachers from 2021 onwards, and will continue to be available in subsequent years. As the second very important point of the minority educator programme, we have launched the minority educator scholarship in order to increase the number of national educators. From 1 September 2018, only 87 students from the first year of national education were contracted, and from 1 September 2019 we had received a scholarship from the first year of the kindergarten teacher I-III.-, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher. And I am pleased to say that this year, on September 1st, the German education of children and children will be launched for the first time in Baja. In addition, for the seven nationalities concerned, the full implementation and settlement of the scholarships are carried out by the German Educational and Methodology Centre of Hungary, so we do not burden the state apparatus. As a third point, at the same time, we have made serious efforts towards training universities and colleges in order not only to increase the number of ethnic teachers, but also to improve the quality of the education of national minority teachers, in particular the significant development of ethnic language competences. We are at the very beginning of this work, and I will discuss this in more detail on Friday. Even during the general debate of the 2017 Central Budget Act, and every year since then, I have continued my contribution at this point by saying that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited positive changes, we believe that this is a moment where we must, and do so now, all the problems that are undoubtedly still in existence, stress aside and unreservedly thank you. On behalf of the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, I would like to thank the government again, of course, because all decisions were theirs, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, each former and present Member of Parliament, has been given nationality support over the last eight years, with which the 2014 grant of less than HUF 4 billion increased to nearly 24 billion, i.e. six times the year 2022. I would also like to thank you for the fact that the affairs and presentations of indigenous nationalities in Hungary have been removed from the daily parliamentary political battles as a kind of unwritten house rule, and in the last eight years, all the proposals submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities have essentially been adopted unanimously by Parliament. Thank you very much, and may God keep this good habit. At the same time, these results and increases in support must be dealt with and evaluated in place, in addition to the specific figures, with a full overview of the situation of nationalities in Hungary. On the one hand, who looks only at the figures and percentages of the very positive changes in national minority support in recent years, and knows only these, you see, it is only right that the nationalities living in Hungary have received a significant increase in support compared to the general increase in the budget in recent years, and in this respect they are undoubtedly right, and I can only confirm that. On the other hand, who sees it comprehensively, he knows in his historical depth the situation of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, the whole process, the content behind the numbers, how deep we started, the extent to which we have the duties of maintaining our mother tongue, identity, traditions, giving them to our children, or more so today, to the extent that we are in the last hour, the gross assimilation that has been going on for seven or eight decades, he also knows that the last eight years have been enough to hold on, to receive faith again, and to start with a new impetus on that path, to launch long-term programmes that we hope will ensure the survival of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary and the survival of our nationality. Seven or eight decades of serious omissions, sins, consequences of which cannot be compensated by the good results of seven or eight years, and it takes several decades to do so. The reconciliation, mutual understanding of these two views and opinions, and the establishment of an appropriate consensus, have also been a feature of the process of reconciliation of national needs for 2019, 2020, 2022 and the current draft central fiscal laws of 2023. It is important to mention that, while in the years 2014-2019, the Ministry of Human Resources chapter included the support of 13 indigenous nationalities, in the Central Budget Act 2020 Roma grants were transferred to the Chapter of the Ministry of Interior and the other 12 nationalities have since been listed in section XI of the Prime Minister's Office. That is why, of course, all 13 nationalities still belong to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, but we still need to talk about the Roma separately, because we find their data elsewhere in the budget. In the Central Budget Act 2021-2022 it was even clear that a significant part of the support of the 12 nationalities was transferred to XLVII. Chapter I, Economic Fund 2.1.7,., Supporting Nationalities Institutions for Investment, Renewal, Application Self-Promotion, which is T/152. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 has already been implemented. Directly on the central budget for 2023, T/152. However, I will discuss more in my speech tomorrow about the legislative proposal No.3 on the issue of ethnic change in this regard. In the meantime, thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[14.10]]
u2022-06-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before the two-minute speeches take place, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State, Ministry of Finance. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-22-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to some of the suggestions made following the keynote speeches, to some of the statements that marked the comments and keynote opinions. It has been said several times in previous years that the budget reflects a set of values, which is what has been said in the debate, and I fully agree with that. Since 2010, the government has emphasized the priority of work and family in its social policy and economic policy, including budgeting. He never allowed any of this, no matter whether it was a problem or a good time or a bad time, and he would not allow it when drawing up the budget for 2023. I think that this choice of values has also brought results in economic policy. We often talk about the fact that today there are a million more people working than many ten years ago, and we can also talk about the increase in wages. In addition, the expansion of family support, I hope, has contributed to more children today than ten years earlier. Not enough, but I repeat, more children are being taken, more children are being born in proportions than ten years ago. From this approach, I find it difficult to interpret, for example, the words of Mr Zoltán Vajda, Mr President, that next year's budget is a plan to abandon families. I find it difficult to interpret Mr András Fekete-Győr's opinion that next year's budget is a budget for poverty. Both family support is increasing and we expect that, in addition to the problems caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, we will maintain a high level of employment and expect wages to increase in the national economy. But speaking of values, allow me to make a parentheses statement. It was peculiar to me that MEP László Varju and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát spoke one by one. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that he is a traitor, who opposes or speaks against demographic measures. I remembered the steps we saw before 2010: when there was a problem, family support was narrowed down. It was also peculiar that MEP László Varju mentioned the increase in religious support as a negative. I would like to ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát what his opinion is on this issue with a double cross in the party's logo. Closed parentheses, allow me to return to the main motives of next year's draft budget law. It has also been said that, in addition to the principles and the presentation of values, what is the challenge that the government is responding to. It was surprising to me when Congressman Dávid Bedő said that the government did not have to face difficulties. Well, two years ago, it was a Covid crisis that resulted in a fall twice the size of the 2008-09 crisis at global level. So from this point of view, I think that economic policy has results in times of crisis, and in the current situation, when the effects of war are undoubtedly around the world, whether it is inflation, energy price increases or other effects, the government must respond to this challenge. How do you react? Base values do not allow us to talk about the surpluses in different areas, and it tries to finance additional burdens by curbing public investment or introducing additional taxes by means of additional taxes. I cannot interpret the opinion expressed by virtually all opposition speakers on this measure that it would be an unprecedented brutal austerity. Member László Varju has said this several times, practically all the speakers. With all due respect, I ask everyone to give us a concrete measure in the proposal for a budget law for next year, in which we are talking about reducing the benefits of families. And forgive me, but I find it difficult to interpret these words from speakers who know that there was a period when the 13th month's pension or the 13th month's wage was abolished, or they know that there was a time when a former government decided to reduce the VAT and then raised it immediately after a few months. So, yes, these steps, which I mentioned, pensions, wage cuts, family support cuts, I think can be regarded as austerity. I repeat, there is no such proposal in the draft next year or in the tax rules. What's with the extra income then? On the one hand, they're special taxes. I do not want to bore the Honourable Parliament for a long time, let me say, with regard to the banking sector, a specific sequence of figures. About a year ago, the interest rate on a one-week deposit in the central bank was 0.75 percent. It then increased to 0.9 percent at the end of June. This interest shall be paid on the amounts deposited by the commercial banks at the central bank. Today it's more than 7 percent. So if, on an annual basis and the central bank discloses these data, we calculate the amount of HUF 10 000 billion held by commercial banks at the central bank, and not by 7 percent, just by 5 percent, this is HUF 500 billion in revenue. I repeat, a year ago, this interest rate was below 1 percent. The government's proposal is that greater inflation caused by war, the resulting increase in central bank base interest rates seen all over the world, plus an increase in deposit rates, commercial banks should pay part of the central budget. I do not want to create an anti-bank climate, because in every country there is a need for a viable, well-functioning banking system in a market economy. Well, in the budget, extra expenses and the financing of family support are not financed by austerity, but by such additional revenues! Where do we see additional income? General sales tax. Why? Because, in addition to the high level of employment, real earnings continue to grow this year, despite high inflation. Average wages may rise above 16 per cent, and higher income results in higher consumption, i.e. VAT, yes, additional income. So to the challenges, I think, the government is responding to a series of measures that protects the results so far and sustains economic growth, as it involves revenue in the financing of public expenditure that does not make it impossible for businesses. The situation in the energy sector is broadly the same. The tax on airlines has been raised by many. Here the magnitudes have to be seen, however, that we expect much less revenue than in the other two sectors, but also here, Mr András Fekete-Győr or Mr László Toroczkai, have been criticised. With respect, I propose that this criticism be given to the German, Austrian, Swedish, UK, US, Canadian or Japanese governments, where they operate with similar taxes, with similar taxes, and with higher rates. So I think that criticizing a tax that operates in many countries of Europe and the world, and, surprisingly, those airlines provide the same in those countries, they are now criticizing a tax in Hungary, which is a little specific. As regards the responses to the crisis, I repeat, I do not see the austerity that many speakers have said. Let's talk, if you don't mind, about macroeconomic numbers. Debt. Congressman László Varju was talking about a debt trap. Mr Bertalan Tóth spoke about the fact that the public debt today is much higher than in 2010. Mr László Varju spoke about the ratio of foreign exchange debt in addition to the level of debt. Let's be realistic. The nominal value of the Hungarian government debt in HUF is, of course, higher than in 2010, and in 2023 the nominal government debt may be higher than in 2022. [[14.20]] But I ask you, who is the better debtor for two individuals? The debtor is in a better position who has a debt of HUF 1 million and his annual income is HUF 2 million; or the better debtor who has a debt of HUF 1.5 million and his annual income is HUF 50 million? I think we can easily answer this question: the debtor is the better debtor who has a higher income than his debt. I therefore respectfully ask Mr President, as former chairman of the Committee on Budgets, that we not only look at nominal debt levels but also at the performance of the economy. And my statement is that, while between 2002 and 2010, there was not a single year when the level of debt would not have increased in proportion to the performance of the economy, none of the years, there was no year between 2011 and 2019 when the debt-to-GDP ratio would not have decreased. In 2020, of course, due to Covid, the debt ratio increased, but already decreased in 2021. As early as 2021, we had a smaller deficit compared to the lack of plans, a lower debt ratio, a completely different situation in many countries in Europe. If the Honourable Parliament adopts next year's draft budget law, we expect that this debt ratio will decrease again next year. As far as the foreign exchange debt ratio is concerned, 23 percent. Congressman, we never said it had to be zero. We have said that we are trying to keep the foreign exchange debt ratio within a range of 25 per cent and we have said that we want to reduce this ratio overall in the long term. However, I would like to say that this foreign exchange debt ratio was also above 50 per cent, so I would ask that from this perspective we evaluate everything we see in the sovereign debt. In the natural case, financing costs are increasing, but please consider how the Italian or German ten-year-old euro yields have turned out. It was a brutal growth. Why? There is war inflation, financing costs are rising everywhere. That is why it is important that we adopt a disciplined budget next year. I was talking about inflation. I was surprised to hear Mr Dávid Bedő's opinion that, I quote, inflation was caused by a wasteful policy of stealing. I would ask Mr President, if that is your opinion, to send it to the governments of Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Poland or Romania, or even not to travel so far, to Bratislava, where we see much higher inflation figures. So in Estonia, for 20 percent inflation, I don't know what kind of opinion it is, what kind of processes there might be. So I think it's clear that the inflation we're facing is war-induced. Energy prices: everyone knows exactly how energy prices evolved as a result of the war. Congressman László Varju recalled exactly how fuel prices turned out, recalling that the fuel price was 300 forints, and now 480, it is absolutely accurate, what Mr.Varju said, but add again the proportions of how the incomes turned out. I would like to inform the Member and the Honourable Parliament that while in 2010 the average net monthly income at that time was slightly over 400 litres of fuel, today it is over 600 litres. So one and a half times as much fuel can be bought as incomes have increased more than prices. How does KSH measure inflation? Mr Dániel Kárpát criticized the measurement of inflation. Criticism can, of course, be formulated, and I ask that this be done towards Eurostat, since the statistical authorities of all states measure inflation in the same way. So no Hungarian tricks can be done with inflation numbers, the government and the Statistical Office do not do that. So I repeat, if someone has a problem measuring inflation, which I do not doubt is that the methodology for measuring should be revised from time to time, they should make criticism to Eurostat. How did we calculate inflation next year? It was said here that this could be higher, and it was also an opinion from Mr Csárdi, Member of the Council, that inflation was deliberately under-planned. The bank's latest inflation prognosis was 5.2 percent, and the central bank's basic objective is to watch over inflation. It is difficult, I add, to say that this task, when external processes determine the evolution of inflation, is only to say that the government number is the same as the last one published by the central bank for 2023. Exchange rate: We have often said that the government does not have an exchange rate target. For this reason, when calculating next year's budget, we looked at the average exchange rate for the period before the submission and, as appropriate, we can manage the impact of the exchange rate change in the implementation of the budget. Among the macroeconomic figures, a number of people criticized our competitiveness and productivity data. Let me tell you factually that we have made substantial progress in the competitiveness ranking published by the last Swiss IMD organisation, as Minister Mihály Varga referred to in the expozee. I must refute Mr Bence Tordai's comment on productivity: the latest fact shows that productivity has increased by 6.4 percent. We hope that this increase will continue this year, and we will expect this in 2023. Last but not least, the evolution of living standards and poverty within macroeconomic processes. Mr András Fekete-Győr said that we have the worst wage statistics in Europe. I promise not to waste any time: from 2013 onwards, net wage changes have substantially exceeded inflation. Let me just say a few songs from the year after 2017! In 2017, inflation, net wage changes, the national average exceeded inflation by 12,9 percent in 2018, net wage growth by more than 10 percent in 2018, broadly the same situation in 2019. In 2020, inflation was 3.3 percent during the crisis, and net wages in Hungary increased by 9.7 percent. This year, we expect that the net wage change is 8.7 percent, we apologize for the 8.7 percent last year, this year we expect that the net wage change may be above 16 percent, and next year's draft represents a net wage change of 10.2 percent compared to 5.2 percent inflation. I am sorry if I bore the Honourable Parliament with numbers, but I think that we can talk about next year's budget only on the basis of factual data or on the basis of concrete assumptions contained in the bill. If you think that our numbers are unrealistic, then tell me why, what is the factor where the government is wrong about drawing up the budget, and about these, I think that a substantive professional debate can be held. Transparency: several people criticized him, Mr Bence Tordai, President Zoltán Vajda, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets. Once again let me be factual: the so-called Open Budget Institute publishes this report, the word "open" and the word "open" relate to the idea of an open society. In fact, I would like to say that this organisation is partly funded by György Soros, and I do not usually refer to it, I repeat: I am factual. And I would also like to be factual in the fact that, in my deep belief, this survey is not an objective survey, it clearly does not cover the Member States of the European Union, it is not true that there is official paper that the most opaque budget in Europe is Hungarian. There is no European Union survey. There is a survey involving a very serious subjective opinion, the data in Hungary is called Budgetary Responsibility Institute Budapest. I suggest you go up to your website and see who gave you orders. I think that, based on the order and the public document, it might be possible to say that the organisation is not necessarily objective. I think that if another NGO or company were asked about the transparency of the Hungarian budget, it would give a completely different opinion, for example, on the question of whether there is a six-month report on budgetary processes. I wouldn't necessarily say that there isn't, because the fact is that we're publishing monthly reports. It's not six months old, it's monthly, and we're also presenting the six-month process. So, to say the least, I am deeply convinced that the opinion that many of the opposition benches have now expressed as criticism is quite subjective. Expenditure areas, hit themes; health care is often on the agenda. [[14.30]] Congressman Ferenc Gelencsér quoted life expectancy data and health numbers at birth. I am sorry that the Member has not spoken of dynamics, so that in recent years all the numbers he has quoted have evolved positively, either in terms of the number of years spent in health or in terms of life expectancy at birth. I also think it is important that, if Mr President considers health care to be important, with which I agree, we should also put on the table that our basic goal should be to ensure that society is as healthy as possible. We also know that the health system is responsible for 10-15 percent of our health. So I think it is appropriate that we speak either as positives about the amendment of the rules on catering, or even about everyday physical education, which is decisive in the fact that we have or do not have cardiovascular problems. Turning to health spending, let me again be factual: in 2023, health spending is increasing by more than a hundred billion compared to 2022. It could be criticized that they could grow more, of course it would be good to spend more in all areas, but the narrative that the government is abandoning health care is simply not factually true. In 2010, the total health expenditure was less than HUF 1200 billion. If the bill was passed before you, it would be around HUF 2670 billion; it would grow from 1200 to 2670. This is more than HUF 1470 billion growth, 123 percent. The cumulative inflation, because inflation was mentioned by several people, is 46.2 per cent up to 2023. Let's look at the other areas, including the increase in educational expenditure. In all figures, factual data show that expenditure is increasing. Within these expenditure increases, many have spoken of wages, Mrs Szabó Timea, and many others have said that the public sector's wages are not rising. Health and education are precisely areas where wages have increased over the past period, and we hope that this increase can continue in the future. Pay-related expenditure in the healthcare sector: In 2010, it was not exactly HUF 270 billion, and in the event of the adoption of the bill before you, it will increase to more than HUF 1086 billion. I repeat: from 270 to 1086, this is a 303 percent increase. Education: I repeat, we are working to increase wages here, but let me be factual. I mentioned cumulative inflation. Compared to 2010, the wage increases launched in the academic year 12/13 were combined with a wage increase of 83 per cent. In addition, the teacher rating system represents an additional expenditure of nearly HUF 70 billion, in addition to the wage increase. Let us not forget that while we know what responses were, during the previous crisis in 2008-09, the wages of teachers also decreased in 2020, when I repeat, the world economy also had a much larger decline compared to 2008-09, the wages of teachers rose by 10 percent, and this year by another 10 percent. We are working to reach an agreement with the European Union. The European Union is open to financing wages. It is not true that wages cannot be financed from EU funds. I hope that this can be a point where we can act together towards the European Union bodies, MEPs in right- and left-wing benches, in order for Hungary to have access to the EU funds it deserves and, for example, to use them for wage measures. Pension: President Bertalan Tóth said that Fidesz despises the elderly. I would like to say, in fact, that the real value of pensions has increased by some 20% in recent years, starting in 2010. Compared to this, the proposals set out in next year's Budget Act are to preserve real value or, of course, to increase inflation by an additional increase, and to pay the 13th month pension in full, and we hope that there will also be a possibility to pay a pension premium. As far as law enforcement is concerned, Congressman László Toroczkai said that police expenditure is falling. I would like to draw the attention of Mr President, Member, to the fact that in 2022 six months' wages were paid to law enforcement workers. The main part of this was included in the budget for the year, 22. Compared to that, it's the decrease he said. So if we take this one-off six-month item out of the benchmark, the law enforcement expenditure will increase. Let me also say here that, compared to 2010, the increase in law enforcement expenditures was more than HUF 500 billion, and police expenditures more than doubled compared to 2010 by 2023, I repeat, if the bill is accepted by the Honourable Parliament. Expenditure of an economic nature. Let me argue with President Toroczkai, as he himself stressed the strengthening of the national industry, strengthening Hungarian-owned companies instead of multinationals, standing on his own feet, and then criticising the establishment of the vaccine factory. I think that the virus and the responses to it have shown that it is appropriate, where possible, to strengthen domestic industry, that transport routes are fragmented, and that large globalised industrial production can sometimes be a disadvantage. Let us not forget that over six million people have taken the vaccine. If, in future, we want to be able to respond to health problems with the products provided by the domestic industry that help us solve the problem, then there is also a justification for strengthening national industry in the field of health, as the Ministry of Finance, after Covid, worked under a health support programme to strengthen the health industry. Energy expenditure. Several have said that the amount for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as set out in next year's draft budget law, is redundant. In my opinion, without nuclear power, there is no sustainable climate policy. When Member Antal Csárdi, Mrs Szabó Timea or others criticize nuclear energy and criticize it on the basis of green criteria, please note that, for example, Germany has launched coal-fired power plants. Please note that one of the ways in which energy independence is created is the existence of its own nuclear power plant. Please note that one way to produce cheap energy is to use nuclear power. So I repeat: I believe that if we consider green aspects to be important, then there is a need for nuclear energy, which gives cheap electricity to the economy and shows a competitiveness issue in this respect. Finally, I will end with energy efficiency and the importance of EU funds. As a criticism, several people have said that the Hungarian Government is arguing with the European Commission on some issues, and therefore there is no agreement on some of the sources of the 2021-27 period. I hope that we can reach a consensus that the resources adopted by Hungary once by the European Parliament and the European Council will actually be available. I hope that we can create a consensus in that, and we will all take action to reach an agreement. The government is working to conclude this agreement, and on this basis we can make use of the resources due to Hungary, so that energy efficiency, financing of the education system or digitalisation can actually be made available to the resources contained in next year's draft budget law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-22-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2022-06-22-43	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to reflect on a few things because you asked for this to happen. Of course, we are in a debate when we talk about the share of education and health in the budget. You always consistently mention the nominal value or number it has increased. [[14.40]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, almost half of the European average is what Hungary spends on health care, and this is with a downward trend. We think that instead of 4 percent, we should spend 7 percent on health care, and then maybe we shouldn't talk about 46,000 deaths. On the other hand, in the same way as education, the share of education below 4 per cent of GDP is unacceptable, especially if the logical difference between us is beyond doubt. You're thinking about a cost-based, cheap labour-based economy. I understand that this could give a lot of people a job. I would add that hundreds of thousands of people fled because they deliberately kept the labour price low. And that's why, I think, in that sense, we're staying in a debate. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to one thing: the fertility rate, which was 1.87 in 1990, is now 1,56, and it has not been growing since last year, since they have been trying to do all this support in a bad way. Apparently, people do not trust you, and so the Hungarian National Bank says that we still have to wait for 17,000 children a year to be born. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-22-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to make a two-minute speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Member István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-22-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Due to the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war and the energy and sanctions policy in Brussels, the most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to maintain the reduction of its costs. Therefore, from the very beginning, it is safe to say that Hungary's budget for 2023 is the budget for public health and defence. It provides all the resources to protect and maintain the results that we have achieved over the past 12 years in cooperation with Hungarian people and in a joint effort. These are the security of the country, the maintenance of the overhead, the family support system, the value of pensions and nearly total employment, and the preservation of jobs. Thus, these are the main objectives of the government and the Fidesz-KDNP in the 2023 budget, which therefore includes two key funds: the Rezségvédelmi Fund, in which HUF 670 billion and the Hungarian Defence Fund, in which HUF 842 billion will be available for the necessary expenditure next year. The main source of income of the funds is the so-called extra-profit taxes. Here we expect greater social involvement and fairer public burdens from those who, as a result of the war, have achieved much higher profits than their planned business profits, so-called extra profit, as a result of the war. I stress that the war in Ukraine is not our war, so Hungarian families cannot bear the main burden of the war crisis that has started in our neighbourhood, no one can make us pay the war price. Dear Parliament, It wasn't always like that. During the crisis management of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, the left was not in the interests of Hungarian families, but in the interests of Brussels and the multinationals. By this time, they allowed Hungarian households to be pawned and driven into yellow check debt by foreign energy suppliers to 100%. During the eight years of Gyurcsány, the price of universal service has been increased fifteen times, the price of gas has increased by 206 percent, three times, and the price of electricity has doubled by 97 percent. As a result, the Hungarians accumulated a debt of HUF 52 billion, and we paid the highest household gas and electricity bills in Europe. At the same time, foreign energy suppliers have driven more than HUF 1300 billion of extra profit out of the country, if they do so, this much was withdrawn from the Hungarian economy. Gyurcsány had the Hungarian families pay the price of the crisis at that time and the extra profit of the multinationals, in addition to patting on the shoulders of Brussels bureaucrats and European Balliberians. This is what the Hungarian left would do today, which is being admitted every day, because standing on the side of the instigators of war is constantly and relentlessly attacking the reduction of the rent. For example, Christmas rushes to Brussels to report his country, his deputies, the rich, MSZP Kata Tüttő and the wealthy pro-Gyurcsány pro-Bősz Anett will provide saving lifestyle advice to Hungarians and Hungarians in Budapest with amazing cynicism. And Márki-Zay and Gyurcsány are called stupidity, stupidity and unsustainable the reduction of the rent, which they believe should be stopped immediately. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We serve Hungary's interests against the Hungarian left, Fidesz-KDNP is on the side of the Hungarian people. That is why we are protecting one of the most important guarantees of family safety, which is why we are fighting to preserve the reduction of household rent at all costs now, even in the midst of a deepening and prolonged war crisis. Despite the continuous and brutal attacks by Brussels, the multinationals and the Hungarian left, we have been maintaining the reduction for ten years. As a result, we have the cheapest access to domestic gas in the EU and the second least we pay for electricity. And even now, when energy prices have risen to the top everywhere, even in a unique way throughout Europe, only us Hungarians are protected by the reduction of electricity. We buy a cubic meter of gas for 115 HUF instead of 565 HUF. The price of electricity per kilowattor is HUF 37 instead of HUF 148. In order to protect and maintain this, we have also established the Rezségvédelmi Fund in our budget for 2023. And it's not gonna be easy and easy, but we're gonna stand by the reduction in household rents that are subject to the law. Dear Parliament, The Trust Fund shall include the expenditure and revenue appropriations necessary to protect the retail economy of the universal service and to compensate for the increase in energy prices. The purpose of the RF spending is to mitigate the effects of a drastic and unpredictable increase in energy prices on the world market, to preserve the results of the reduction in electricity, thereby ensuring affordable and secure energy supply for families. For this purpose, HUF 670 billion will be spent on extra-profit tax payments. We expect 242.3 billion forints from the energy sector. Therefore, we are introducing a 25%-key special tax on the extra profit achieved at the difference between the price of Ural and Brent oil. This revenue line also includes the special tax payable by the outgoings from the KÁT/METÁR system. In addition, the scope of the tax is extended to the producers of bioethanol, starch and starch products, as well as to the companies producing sunflower oil. XLVIII of 1993 on mining Under law, the State shall be entitled to a share, so-called mining fee, of the mineral raw material and geothermal energy extracted. The amount of the mining fee shall be determined by the amount of mineral raw material or geothermal energy extracted, the specific value of each raw material and energy and the percentage of the premium. It's a complicated calculation, but it can be investigated. [[14.50]] The revenue for the mining fee includes both the income payable for the extraction of hydrocarbons and non-carbon inputs. However, a significant part of the mining fee should be paid for the production of natural gas. Given that the world market price for natural gas has increased significantly this year and is projected to remain at a high level in 2023, the revenue from the mining fee would be significant even under unchanged regulatory instruments. Next year's mining fee revenue will amount to HUF 240 billion, which, of course, will have to be paid into this rent fund. With airlines, we started with the example of a large majority of European countries. We expect 30 billion forints from this new tax, of which we will not allow a penny to be transferred to Hungarian passengers. We will achieve this by means of consumer protection, even if there are such aggressive, stupid, or even calmly, rude foreign owners who consider themselves and their airlines to be outside and beyond the laws of Hungary. Finally, the planned revenue of the Renewal Fund from telecommunications tax is HUF 96.4 billion. This increase and the extension of the taxable population, as well as the net turnover-based, band-based telecommunications additional tax introduced from 1 July 2022, is the basis for this increase. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Minister Mihály Varga and his colleagues for presenting us with a budget that will allow the protection and maintenance of household rent cuts, one of the cornerstones of Fidesz-KDNP's policy, to be fiscally sound and financially secure in 2023, even in the midst of an ever-increasing and prolonged war crisis. I would ask you to support the draft budget for 2023 with your votes as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-47	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Fellow Members! The budget for which the debate started in this House today is clearly a budget for brutal austerity and three strikes in Orbán. This budget takes more money from Hungarian families than ever before and leaves more money in the pocket of the fidesz oligarchs than ever before. In a way, this budget has winners, but whatever the propaganda that has been pushed back by billions of public money, these are not the Hungarian families, but the moonyard of Viktor Orbán and the few Fidesz. You have released the hands of Hungarian families, with EUR 400 forints, freed inflation, brutal restrictions, passed-on special taxes and higher price increases than ever before. It is no coincidence that, according to a recent Eurostat survey, Hungarians are the second poorest in the European Union. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I was talking about three strikes in Orbán, so let's go in line. You are responsible for the fact that a joint holiday is now a luxury for the majority of Hungarian families. In the summer of 2022, brutal inflation and restrictions in Orbán and incomprehensible price increases have led to the fact that this summer a week spent in Lake Balaton cost a family of four just as much as if they were on the road, and would be on vacation on the same money on the Croatian or Greek coast. True, there is one difference, however, that in Croatia and Greece, because of the historically weak forints, they would face the fact that their currency is worth much less than the EU families who are on holiday with them. If they come home, they will see that the Orbáns have stolen the Balaton, made it a playground for their oligarchs, and the Hungarian families have already been forced off the shore of Lake Balaton. My colleague László Varju mentioned it, but let me remind you that when there was a euro of 274 forints in 2008, your Prime Minister was right, when he said in opposition that , the Prime Minister's exchange was the solution to the forint crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if the HUF 274 euro was called a forint crisis, what would the EUR 400 be called now? If the HUF 274 euros said that the solution to the forint crisis was the Prime Minister's exchange, what would they say now at the EUR 400? Should we replace the entire government? I'll tell you what, I'd be in. And even though this has been said several times for the war, from the mouth of Szilárd Németh and Minister of State, we can see that the values of the Polish, Czech, Bulgarian, Romanian and Croatian currencies have barely shifted by 0.5 percent compared to the euro, while the value of the forint has deteriorated by 7.5 percent compared to the euro. So whatever you say is not a war emergency, but an inflationary emergency that is not caused by war, but by the government and the Hungarian National Bank, and if something is really dangerous for Hungarian families, it is precisely weak forints and rising inflation. You are responsible for the weakest forint in Hungarian history, my honourable members of the Government. Remember that you said György Matolcsy but I could quote anyone else from the Hungarian National Bank that the central bank does not have an exchange rate target. Well, there is the result of all this, because if the Hungarian central bank does not have an exchange rate target, it means that it does not protect the value of the Hungarian forint, and if the central bank does not protect the forint, then the forint will be devalued. This is so simple, and we are seeing the results of this in practice. Of course, some have benefited from the weakening of the forint. I will tell you that, on the one hand, the Hungarian multinationals, who pay wages in HUF, have benefited from it, so that every year they can make Hungarian workers work cheaper and cheaper. The Hungarian National Bank has benefited, which can spend its profits on its own as a result of the weakening of the forint. That's how he had real estate, sculptures, luxury carpets, and György Matolcsy knows what else he has. Last but not least, the Fidesz entrepreneurs who won EU applications also benefited very well, as the weak forint means that the money they steal is worth more and more every day. So they benefited, while the price of your failed economic policy is again paid by the Hungarian families, the Hungarian families, for whom unfortunately not only the holiday is a luxury, but also the big shopping at the beginning of the month, because the price of food is 20-30, but there are also 40 percent inflation. 600 forints a kilo of white bread, for the same price we get ten eggs and a liter of sunflower oil. And if families find it difficult to pay for it, then they can start to worry about how much your misguided economic policy will increase their loan repayments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If Hungarian families were even important to you, they would stop the food price increase. If Hungarian families were important, they would support the initiative of the Democratic Coalition, reduce the VAT on basic foods to zero percent, and they would not allow it to rise to more than 5 percent from next January. There are enough problems for Hungarian families that shopping has been so expensive, they do not need you to go through their pockets. Once again, food price increases are a problem enough, but you're taxing them extra at the register. But they wouldn't stop here. If the fate of families really mattered to you not only in words, but also in actions, they would give a one-off allowance of at least HUF 100,000 to families raising children, as the Democratic Coalition has also suggested, at least with some pain to compensate for the increase in food, which you did not, by the way, cause. Of course, you will not do this; the budget for next year will not help to solve these problems. No penny is planned to deal with family problems. What's in the budget on the other hand? You will spend more money on your own apparatus, spend more on your own propaganda, increase the salary of the Prime Minister and the ministers, there will be high priestess, there will be counties, and there will be a tax increase. There will be only one thing: help for Hungarian families. [[15.00]] I was talking about three strikes, so let's move on to the third strike, which is the extra profit. That's another lie for you when you say that the extra-profit tax will be paid by companies. Now, I have a very bad news for you, my honourable pro-government colleagues, on the other hand, the cold reality is that the Orbán special tax, called the extra-profit tax, will again be paid by families. Families will have higher repayments, families will have more expensive drugs, more expensive banking, more expensive insurance, more expensive TV and internet subscriptions, and those who have been driven away from this country for the last 12 years and are now trying to get lucky abroad will face the fact that they will be able to visit home more and more expensively. So whatever you are lying to the Hungarian families, it is now clear to everyone that the extra-profit tax is nothing more than the third element of Orbán's brutal austerity package. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Over the past 12 years, you have made Hungary the driving force behind Europe in almost all respects, a country where you want to protect families instead of price stability through invalid referendums on false questions. In addition to all this, we have already talked about this, you are piling up foreign currency debts while we are slowly sweeping the forint on the street. 23 percent of the Hungarian government debt, i.e. more than 5th foreign currency debt. As my colleague Varju said, if you stopped debting the country today, the debt would continue to rise every day. The saddest thing about this is that you know that the Hungarian families will pay the price of everything, but you will not do anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You have often referred back to pre-2010 situations in this debate. Let me conclude my speech with a referral, yes, I would go back to 1990, when your Speaker said that to the budget of the government at that time, to the government that you didn't love very much, but now you see them as your spiritual predecessor. So there is a quote from László Kövér: this proposal does not meet the standard that can be called law. With regard to the draft budget 2023, I absolutely agree with it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-22-48	I welcome my fellow Members, the representatives of the government and those assisting in the meeting. Thank you very much for Mr Barkóczi's contribution and I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-49	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start with a sentence that doesn't sound like the first time, but I think it's important for a budget to have ideas and political aspirations behind the figures. That's obvious, and if that's what we want to talk about, we need to start with that. Our budget, which is on the table, is thinking in an orderly, safe society and in providing the living conditions of the Hungarian people, and it is doing so in a world where there are spectacular crises in Western civilization, a sure sign of all the self-destructive measures we are witnessing. We are thinking in a community-based society, which shows that we intend to strengthen the smallest social-building community, the family, in this difficult situation, and even to support it in the draft budget, despite any conflicting remarks. The family has no alternative in our eyes. This small community also provides the most for the individual: by giving the child the opportunity to become a healthy adult, and for the adult to find understanding, support, and safety here. Today, this small community is quite vulnerable, many believe that it is also in crisis. We believe that, and experience shows that it is not the institution, the family's institution, that we need to look for the symptoms of the crisis in individuals. It is a fact that the family requires support from society and politics, also from the state. These may have been, in short, the ideal aspects behind the figures, but this is also the result of political intentions. Double intention: to strengthen families and improve the demographic situation. The numbers show this spectacularly, and as boring as the numbers are, I have to mention some, it is difficult to overlook. In 2023 there will be HUF 3225 billion in support of families, which is 450 billion more than in the 2022 budget. If someone would now say that inflation is taking this away, we must state the reality that the increase is far above inflation. Let me say another nice number: 2290 billion more support for families now than in 2010. If you ask me what the most important elements of family support are, I would like to mention tax relief in the first place, because this is a work income-related support, which is clearly positive from a social policy point of view, as opposed to aid-related aid, which in turn has a negative impact. In parentheses, we are not talking about aid in a crisis, we are talking about life-style aid. I'd like to add another tax discount, with the exemption of people under the age of 25, which is also an essential support element. Finally, I would like to refer to the home creation programme, which is one of the most important needs of young people, starting families. Allow one more piece of data, which proves that the Hungarian family support system is significant in international comparison, as it accounts for 5 percent of GDP. Then I have to tell you about another area, environmental and nature protection. If you look at the idea behind the budget figures, I apologize, but I'll be a little theoretical when I say that there are two approaches to this issue, one is antropocentric and the other is the ecocentric. Both have a radical and a moderate version. Radical in both cases is inconclusive, because in one case it means that you can do everything you can with the environment, in the other case you can interpret nature's self-esteem by leaving one out of it. Christian thinking takes the relative anthropocentric approach. This means that we are not thinking in a casual response to a current problem, but in a basic human view and attitude, in the respect of the entire created world, in which man is involved, and indeed, because the only creature in the world with personality is the owner of this world to cultivate and preserve it, to preserve it from everything that can damage its original beauty and integrity, even from its own greed, and to enrich it with its creative ability. So that's the basic idea behind the numbers. The main direction of the political effort is to join the common EU environmental and nature objectives. Hungary is able to achieve the agreed EU climate targets. [[15.10]] We have the right to be proud of this ability. I would also like to give an example: since 1990, GDP has grown by reducing CO2 emissions by 32% and energy consumption by 15%. One more figure: Hungary is the sixth best in greenhouse gas emissions per capita in the EU. This shows that we are also able to adopt realistic requirements in this area. But finally, let me make two comments: in order to have a climate neutral economy by 2050, it will take HUF 50 000 billion. I can't do this without support. On the other hand, emission reductions can only be achieved by using nuclear power. In both cases, the grand plan meets reality. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-22-50	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László György Lukács, in the colours of Jobbik.
u2022-06-22-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2023 budget, according to you, is a budget for security and security, made with this focus, and we can conclude that it is unfortunately not a budget for health care. They may have gotten used to me in the previous cycle, and even before I look at the global approach of health care, and I typically say those missing elements and the missing budgetary resources that would really have to be available to a truly XXI in 2023, by reviewing the general government system itself and the whole domestic system. We can talk about modern and effective health care in the first century. After all, Mihály Varga talked about the fact that the budget and budget show that our health care is a modern and efficient health care, and, on the other hand, my fellow Members, it is the reality, and the people who are working in this area, and even those who come here in particular, after the outbreak of the Crown Virus, can say that unfortunately, the Hungarian health system, in comparison with the health of other countries, is not yet modern and, above all, ineffective. In my view, efficiency can be measured by the public health data, by the performance of an effective health care system from the lowest levels to the highest levels of progressivity, whether from GP as a gatekeeper, from home care to the highest clinical treatment. The fact that the length of the years spent in health is very low compared to the European average, the life expectancy in Hungary is very low, and the years of illness have been alarming, so the Hungarian mortality data and, on the one hand, mortality and mortality data all show that very much efficiency capacity has not been used in domestic healthcare, could be built a much more efficient system. Ladies and gentlemen, In this area, to a certain point, what was said about football is true: small money, small football, big money, big football. Health care, if we do not put enough resources into it and it does not have to be poured into it without necks, but if we do not put enough resources into it, the system will not be able to use itself to the point where it provides the most effective and best care, and we are at this level at the moment. It must be acknowledged that over the last 12 years, we have been trying to keep up with the huge backlog of the Hungarian health system, the technological pressure, the constantly evolving technology, the ageing society. In this they were partners in professional organizations. There was a time when governments also showed partnership, and then there were years when there was also insufficient resources. Over the past few years, the coronal virus epidemic has largely re-arranged the entire area's funding, but in the years preceding the coronal virus, there have been good initiatives to involve resources in health so as not to be extra burdened, but to take money from, let's say, the polluters and put it into health, which will help the sector function well and effectively. Compared to this, we are standing there again, and the budget shows that we are facing a 4-percent increase in health expenditure. Given that you consider inflation to be 5 percent, this is essentially a real reduction. One key to what should be noted in this regard is that the need for instruments and all, let's say, the need for instruments for healthcare has been very large, and unfortunately this has been the case in the last three decades, which has been determined from abroad, i.e. the euro/forint exchange rate, and is therefore very exposed not only to the exchange rate change, but also to the inflation phenomenon that has become two-digit inflation for the current period. So the fact that they are planning a 4-percent increase in itself, profanly speaking, will only be eaten by inflation, and then we have not talked about the exchange rate changes between the euro and the forint. It is clear that, on the basis of the current draft, healthcare did not expect it to get a little better, or they would be in one place, but they would move much further back in this funding. However, if we have any obligation as employees of the Hungarian legislation, honourable Members, to have a well-funded, robust public health care system, from its smallest pillar, if any, from our protective services or our home care services to our clinical care. We are all interested in this, and there is only one way to solve this: the solution is to put a budget in which the funding items are fairly included, which, by the way, needs to be reformed, I would add, there are fair proposals for wage increases that should be carried out. And although he has received a promise, and a small promise from the medical staff today, most of all, that he wishes to continue what the government agreed with the Hungarian Medical Chamber, but he did not declare that he would continue to do so in 2023. And to say a bigger problem, the problem is not only the wages of doctors, but also the wages of health professionals, those who stand by the Hungarian bed as nurses, and those of the nation who take two or three extra jobs to ensure their livelihood at all. I have to remind you of a survey from a few years ago, carried out by the Hungarian Health Professional Association in its own circle: the Hungarian nurses standing next to the sick beds are sicker than the ones being nursed. They have tragic data, overworked, polymorbid diseases, all kinds of burdens; that's how they stand by the sickbeds and do their job. It would be possible to relieve them on the basis of both wage and working conditions, but it would also require money, repeated and redirected back to the football metaphor. So it is very difficult to see from it that the trend continues that healthcare workers, especially those working in the field of health care, who are not in the profession, but assistants, professional workers and other care workers, and the institution itself, are also insured by their wage increases in maintaining buildings, institutions and these services. And while we are talking about wage increases, there are very few sectors with state-funded and high levels of public employment such as health care. We are simply talking about 80,000 employees in the case of specialist care workers. This 80 000 workers, due to an increase in the minimum wage, have a surplus of nearly 4 billion, which needs to be replaced now, and if we look at it compared to all other sectors, we need to see that people working for minimum wage are overrepresented in health care. Almost nowhere is there a burden and an extra cost that must be added to, for example, an 80,000 employee population as in health care. This proves that general wages in health care are very high and are very close to the minimum wage, so that workers in the most difficult situations are withdrawn from providing assistance to meaningful improvements and money spent on them. We also didn't talk about it on Monday, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior couldn't give an exact answer about what would happen to hospital debts. It is always a recurring issue that the way in which hospitals are financed in today's world by you and the incoming governments, without looking at the rates and the model of financing healthcare, means that, on the one hand, the waiting lists are growing and, on the other hand, the hospitals are increasing their debts, and these debts are going back every year to HUF 50-60 billion at the end of the year, and you are never planning to pay for this, always earning money at the end of the year and finding a way to pay these fees to hospitals. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, this year will be very different from the previous years: there is no coronal virus epidemic at the level at which it was financed by health institutions. [[15.20]] They will now be confronted with debt that is also hit by inflation and the exchange rate of the euro. It may also be that we will not see a debt of 50-60 billion, but a debt of 100 billion at the end of the year, and it is not included in the draft that somehow the government is prepared to manage this somehow in 2023, and free the health institutions from this burden, because where it otherwise relieves it from this burden, it will help businesses who are suppliers there. And don't look at the multinationals, not the foreign asset suppliers, but, where appropriate, the doctors, the staff workers who are engaged in these hospitals, and in many cases the work they do is paid for 5-6 months. Who expects a Hungarian average family, be it the doctor, be it any nurse or assistant, to receive the salary for the work he has done in five to six months' time and to live on something? So it is not that anyone wants to promote the richness of someone and their suppliers at large foreign and euro exchange rates, but that decent small businesses who are there and maintain health care do not get them either, and wait until the end of the year, or wait until the end of next year to talk to them and receive their debts and the money they lend. It is also possible to stop the program, which is healthy in Budapest. From this budget, it is clear that the emerging trend of institutional and supply reforms in Budapest through the Healthy Budapest programme, where this was very much needed, is that everyone said that while there were rationalizations in the countryside and hospital developments that helped the development of rural care, in Budapest there was a very poorly inherited and almost inoperable system, and that the Healthy Budapest programme would have served precisely to change this, but it also stopped. Then we can talk calmly about what has not changed. There is no change in the money given to the protective services, and there is no change in the money for home care. Let me put a parentheses here. Where's the patient's real recovery and patient's bed? In his home. It's the most expensive thing to take care of someone in a hospital. Home care is significantly more cost-effective. And I'm not talking about home care, which is a social issue. I'm talking about home nursing, when that therapist, that nurse, is visiting the patient in his own home, who eats, bathes, weed, TV, and doesn't use the so-called hotel services that medical institutions normally profit from. If someone looks at the funding model we are using now, it is slowly cheaper to spend a night in Kempinski than in Hungarian hospitals because they encode the patient's stay there. Hospitals are asking for money and fishing for it, so they can maintain themselves on the basis of bad and apologies perverted funding, that after this hotel service, they collect the money for the people inside. They also call most of these patients cotton addicts, so they're sucking up the money. Maintaining this system in this way is insane and leads us into a downward spiral. What else isn't in it? It was said that some kind of reform, some kind of transformation in health care, should come and there should be. Next year's budget shows no signs of this anywhere. There's no way to see what's really in there, but there's a lot of stuff leaking out on your professional side, so you can't even see that you're on the line that the profession suggested, or at least one consulting firm suggested, or that at least you'd be in on the basic care, or that you'd be in charge of the basic care. Who's it gonna be? To put it in style, is it the municipality, the county of the castle, or will it also be performed by the Archbishop as a basic supplier? So, there is a lot missing from this budget proposal, which is not missing, of course, a tax increase. Believe me, I will not shed a single tear for companies who will pay more taxes on the basis of the tax on public health products, but the fact is that the public health product tax will also end up being paid by consumers. These are the sugary soft drinks, the chips, the unhealthy foods that, after their increase in consumption and consumption, collect more than HUF 80 billion on the basis of the public health product tax. This tax is also a recognised and successful tax on an international scale. So what we have to say is that the international profession in health circles sees it as a particularly successful and good innovative solution, and this is one of your calmly saying glory that they have done one of these. But it's not the way they use it. The profession would have expected it, and the idea of its design was that all the revenue from it would be used to support public health objectives. So the budget shows everything, but it certainly does not show that the public health programmes would receive HUF 83 billion in funding. We need all the public health programmes to reach maximum levels, which could be zero tolerance, oncology programme, national alcohol strategy. In Hungary, alcohol consumption is at the forefront of Europe at global and European level, with resulting deaths and related health damage. And we don't spend any of those taxes that we've been collecting for this purpose, and we don't give them to you signed, but we give them somewhere in the big joint, it goes in and out. These funds should be strapped to support the public health objectives. And how can I say that this is not what it is spent on; I was, at the time and then, about HUF 50 billion in tax revenue for this tax revenue, and I asked, say, the less beautiful EMMI, in this question, what was spent on, and they were able to show a programme of about HUF 1 billion in contrast to the 50 billion, that we spent it for these public health purposes. They took the rest and put it all in the joint. Here at the financing point, we have come to a basic item: how can health be financed in a sustainable way? For many years now, it has been a back and forth question with the secretary-general, that it must be clearly seen that if healthcare is not financed from the source, it will in itself be unplanned and inconsistent to fund it only from our tax revenues, because health care is no longer financed on the basis of social security contributions and other contributions, but we will, and we will, place the operating costs on the whole tax. This has proven to be unpredictable and unpredictable in the long term development of health care wherever they operate state-funded healthcare. We can be sure that the technology will not wait for how much the Hungarian government will put there or how much governments will put there, that the ageing society will not be younger, so we have a growing pressure to build on some uncertain tax revenue or general tax revenue and that it will always give the necessary money, it will be unsustainable in the long term. It is necessary to look at the additional possibilities for increasing resources on the source page and how it can be involved in this, even as they have done with the public health product tax, some payers and some public carriers. Let me also say that what is particularly important, and what the government should pay attention to, and we have also tabled a budget amendment, is the issue of rescue, the National Rescue Service. It is a constantly recurring problem that, in the case of heavy stress at the National Rescue Service and the coronal virus epidemic, this has also been pointed out by the need for permanent replacement of devices, continuous improvement, especially in your vision that on-call care for basic health care should be entrusted to emergency services at national level on the basis of the pilot programme in Hajdú-Bihar County. Otherwise, this will be worth consulting with the emergency services, because they have very poor experience that the operation of the basic care unit can or may not be possible. The system is probably more likely to slip together with regular on-call and emergency care and not fulfil the proper function of the basic care. Overall, it can therefore be said that the 2023 budget will not be a health budget. I personally regret this because this is the area where Hungary has a lot to do in addition to health innovation. Hungarian public health data show that we have a lot of delays. We have all had experience in our lives through relatives or our own health about how and how health could be improved. If Hungary could succeed in something with its 10 million-dollar market and public-funded health care, it would be healthcare. It would be a very good size, a very good design and a really good perspective if someone took it seriously to develop health care fairly and set it on a good and long-term path with the right resources. In this there will always be a political consensus on our side, Jobbik has always shown a partnership for both left-wing and pro-government parties to be a political consensus or a smooth consensus, in which we can determine the core in the long term in which we all agree and which ensures the stable functioning of health over political debates in a long, ten-year perspective. [[15.30]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to recommend a few amendments to your attention in the remaining few minutes. Originally, I'm a lawyer, I worked as a lawyer. In the early days, like all lawyers, I worked as a public defender a lot. In recent years, I have been very saddened by the fact that although there was a quick increase, perhaps in 2015 or 2016, where the public defender fee and the legal aid fee were raised to a thousand forints, this increase was stuck. In recent times, we have failed, let's say, on the fee for this service, the legal service paid by the State for the burdened persons in distress or for their legal assistance, so what the State is paying could not be increased. I am asking you, and I would suggest this, and I will propose this to the professional chambers, the bar of lawyers and other legal aid organisations, so that there is a common consensus in this. The past period has shown that there has been a general wage increase everywhere, not only a wage increase, but also an increase in costs, and the fee for which lawyers, candidates for lawyers and other qualified legal aid specialists are currently carrying out their work is no longer helping, but destroying, public confidence in this profession and this work. So I proposed to raise this amount, a fair increase, not a push-up, especially in a difficult time, and people feel the burden of this difficult time in their own pockets. The other thing I'm offering to you is the 40 plus men. It is clear that it is a huge budgetary burden to give men this opportunity. But I am not interested in the burden involved, but in the opportunity for men who, after 40 years of working, can finally enjoy the fruits of their work and have time to work with their families, their children, or, where appropriate, their grandchildren, or to live with their hobbies. We all know even our own family members who, or who did not live in retirement, could not retire because they died, or, by the way, they had to leave their family shortly after retirement for a man, and the family had to say good - bye to him forever. It's a very serious problem for men. If women and women had the right opportunity to do so, then men should also have the opportunity to do so. Let me have another one that might be up to date. In recent days, the extreme drought has shown and demonstrated that Hungary is fighting a very serious battle, especially with various and now more frequent heat waves, especially drought, especially in Hungary, especially in the countryside, with the emergence of styrofoams and outdoor fires. In recent days, I do not think that there has been a county in East Hungary where there has been no more alarm where either local municipal firefighters or professional firefighters should have left. Therefore, we propose that voluntary firefighter associations have an additional priority support, not only because of what we will experience this year and next year, but also a tendency to have voluntary firefighter associations in these, typically small settlements and small communities, performing very serious public work and a shifted function instead of public work, for which support is needed. It is not a one-off grant of 3-4 million forints, which they usually receive, or 400 to 500 thousand forints. In recent years, it has been reported that local government associations have received a grant of 400 thousand forints. Now, with 400 thousand forints of equipment for that job, serious public order work, public safety is also part of the fire safety, so the work they do requires a fair contribution. Allow me to clarify a question concerning the constituency or the Grand Chamber. I have submitted it over the past period, but I think it is particularly important that our debt and especially important work be done for all of us to create memorial sites in memory of families who have been taken to the Hortobágy forced labour camps and of those victims. Perhaps this could help and I am pleased that my fellow Member, who is also a representative of the district, is also a memory and cultural development, if we could find these memorial sites on the one hand and create some sort of memorial place. Not a great sum, 250 million forints were allocated to the great granary memorial sites, which are typically located in the Hortobágy area and in the Grand Kundaras area, in Kunmadaras, Nagyiván and that area. There are still traces of areas where a building or an object created by man indicates that there were places of work camps where families from many other parts of the country were forced to work and were installed here leaving their own home. This is not only the Grand Cunity, but it is the responsibility of all of us that those who visit or want to know the history of their own family should be in a worthy place, and even on a hiking trail they can see what was going on in the Hortobágy forced labor camps. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I recommend to them the proposals for a health amendment, but even the proposals for amendments to the activities of lawyers, with good intentions. These are not unenforceable items in the budget and are even necessary. I suggest you support this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-22-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Kristóf Szatmáry of the Fidesz fraction. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now, almost seven and a half hours after the debate began, as I hear the speeches, and I would like to join in this line myself, we would not talk generally about the budget for the following year, but in my case I would like to focus specifically on one area, what the budget for 2023 shows to domestic businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. I have the pleasure of not looking at the first budget from this point of view. On the basis of my functions as a former practicing entrepreneur, partly in entrepreneurial organisations, I have already examined a threefold set of criteria, and I would like to examine the budget now, which is basically looking at the budget from the side of entrepreneurship. What is this three-way approach? What is this threefold circumstance that fundamentally affects the everyday life of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary? The first is, of course, the political regulatory environment in which businesses operate, as in terms of predictability, as in terms of planning, as in terms of the next year's budget. The other larger area could be summarized very simply by the fact that everyone lives on the market, the market means for most domestic businesses what domestic consumption is like, a buyer, who sells the goods and services produced. The third is such a circumstance for businesses, which fundamentally affects them, which is the source of the business, will be a loan, will be a development resource, will remain in the account the plans or the ideas that entrepreneurs want to implement, will have access to, in some way or in some way, to the necessary resources. From an entrepreneurial point of view, I can say, but perhaps this is true for the entire budget, too, that 2023 does not seem like an easy year, as Covid did not make it an easy year, either in 2021 or in 2022, but the entrepreneur is a kind of person who likes challenges, otherwise he wouldn't do a business. Fortunately, Hungarian entrepreneurs also live on the back of the ice, so they can survive these difficult periods, especially if they are helped by the government, the current government and the legislator. Let's start with the first and perhaps the most important area, the predictable environment. We were also very pleased at the fact that, after 2010, the system was in place that the next quarter budget would be adopted already in practice, the tax laws that would basically define the daily lives of entrepreneurs would be adopted. I am very pleased that, even in such a difficult situation, the government has undertaken to submit this budget, since, on the basis of the current figures, it can be said that there is a stable, predictable entrepreneurial environment waiting for businesses. Perhaps two parts are worth highlighting. One is the issue of extra special taxes. I can say that 99.9 percent of domestic businesses are not affected. [[15.40]] And we are very pleased to say, on behalf of domestic businesses, that the government has indeed been able to find these additional resources in a way that balances next year's budget, which I can say is that they do not affect almost all of domestic businesses and have been able to apply specific interventions in sectors that do not make it difficult for domestic businesses to operate. The existence of businesses also depends on how stable their farming is, and it is good to see from the small entrepreneurial side that public finances themselves are on a stable, declining debt path, and that the central budget is in the hands of any equilibrium situation which, by the way, determines the everyday life of the business sector. What is perhaps an area that we know is going to change is the system of kata, but here, too, the information that has come to us that this simplified form of taxation itself remains, is reassuring, and on behalf of honest businesses, I can say that the efforts in this area to effectively highlight hidden employment are basically eligible. Let me highlight one more positive point here, although we do not yet see the details of this, but there is a promise in the next budget that a significant part of small and micro-enterprises in Hungary can remain in the system of reductions. I believe that this will give hundreds of thousands of businesses such security and not only security but also competitive advantage compared to international partners. Therefore, we also consider this to be eligible. From a little further perspective, 2023, and not just from the budgetary side, I can say that perhaps the most important issue that few of us are talking about here, and what I think is that domestic businesses are clearly behind and behind the government, is the simple question that all businesses need to operate, or not all of them, but most of them need to remove gas and fuel in Hungary, whether the safety of this will be achieved. We see that we hope that this will be the case. So if there is gas somewhere in Europe and there is fuel somewhere, it will be here in Hungary. I think that this is partly due to the unique government approach that is also seen here in European sanctions policy. On behalf of Hungarian businesses, I can say that we want Hungarian businesses to work, and for this work we need energy, fuel, and the measures taken to ensure this will certainly be supported by Hungarian entrepreneurs. In light of the issue I mentioned, the most important thing for businesses is that if they already have a predictable economic environment to sell their products, so there is a solvent demand, we see basically good news in the budget, because from the consumer side it can be seen that the difficulty or the task to be solved is the balance of the budget for the year 23, where the government is essentially not taking funds from the population, not consumers, or even the government. So basically all previous benefits are maintained, family tax relief, tax relief for people under the age of 25, the home creation programme, the 13th month pension, all of them have been listed, but the point is that the money remains with the people, and this money can be spent in a large part by Hungarian society in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, which, I think, is the best news for domestic businesses. And where this can actually be achieved in figures in the budget, it can be seen that domestic consumption, which is perhaps the best measure of this, will remain above 4 per cent the following year, and in particular household consumption will continue to increase by around 5 per cent next year. So you'll be a buyer if I simply want to translate it from an entrepreneurial point of view. And then we could bring in a relatively, perhaps historical, investment rate plan for next year. So from this point of view, entrepreneurs are on the demand side, and I think that they are in a good position in the budget as far as possible. The third page or the third perspective is the credit and liability page. I can also say here that, unlike some of the major previous crises in Hungary, the result of which was that the credit market had dried up and that businesses had been able to obtain funds at either no or a terrible price, this cannot happen in 2023 on the basis of the budget, tax laws, as we see that the liquidity of the banking system remains, we have news about the continuation of the Széchenyi loan scheme, and I have already mentioned the investment rate. It is a big issue here, we see EU funds in part, but we also share the hope that, after all, the European Union does not want to destroy itself and that some agreement can be reached between Hungary and Brussels about the arrival of legitimate EU funds in Hungary. So, overall, I can say that from the point of view of domestic businesses, as we have become accustomed to, it will not be easy to have the year 23, but I think that all the marginal conditions that the government can provide to businesses in a positive way are included in the budget 23. From this point of view, I would really refer very briefly to the fact that not all crisis management has been so in Hungary, and the entrepreneurs are no longer happy to remember this, but in such a parliamentary debate, because fortunately I was already a Member of Parliament in the 2008-09 crisis, I remember that even then the state tried to collect funds in the event of such a crisis by bringing entrepreneurs under all kinds of assetisation tests, by announcing a tax increase, and by considering domestic small and medium-sized enterprises as basically milky cows. Now this is not in the budget, but it is not an easy year, but it is a year that, I think, holds opportunities and development for domestic businesses, so we can also support the proposal from the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-22-54	Thank you, Congressman, for your comment. I give the floor to Miklós Dawn, on behalf of the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a Member of the Parliament of the Mountains and Bel-Buda, it is my duty to bring into the debate on next year's budget the local issues that require change, development and often state aid. In a situation where the government eviscerates municipalities, unfortunately, more and more important issues and important projects for locals require the state's financial support. I stood up for more of these cases in my election program, and we had them. I would now like to talk about important matters to the mountain and Bel-Budans, which I personally stood up for, which I asked for and was empowered to do when I obtained a parliamentary mandate. Dear Parliament, We need more money in health care, a lot of people say that today, and we say that because it's self-evident to us, and we don't understand why it's not. I am aware that Fidesz has a number of questions. Nothing proves that more than the façade renovation of the Kútvölgyi block for five years, and it was only in the current election campaign. The renovation of John's Hospital is still waiting for you, even though the previous cycle was promised to be completed. Honourable Members, When the wall in John's Hospital is molding and the door in the accident department is smashed, fancy visual investments must be put aside and the hospital should be renovated. As I said in my speech on Monday, it is almost every election that they promise full renovation, and they will say for sure that this is an important goal, but instead of words, action is needed. The health of the people of Buda, the people of Buda and the Hungarians is not a negligible issue, and funds must therefore be provided for the complete renovation of St. John's Hospital in this budget. And I'm not the only one saying this, but the pro-government candidate has agreed to do the same in his campaign, so 90 percent of the voters support it. This is how Buda can develop, so that the Hegyvidék can be renewed, and otherwise the health care of Hungarians can also be improved. Dear Parliament, Beyond the clean, modern hospitals, the XXI. In the third decade of the century, we should also talk about the need for innovative technological solutions in health care. This simplifies diagnosis and shortens waiting lists. Therefore, digital health telediagnostic devices should be provided for hospitals and general practitioners. During the epidemic, this has become particularly important, but it is also useful not to force our older compatriots to go on an order, endangering their health. In conjunction with my proposal for a renewal of János Hospital, I suggest that we start such a project even in the Mountains, and if it proves to be operational, and I am almost certain that it will be, then it should be extended at national level. This is how Buda can develop, so that the Hegyvidék can renew, and thus improve the health care of Hungarians. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, We believe, not only on the issue of health, that we should do much more, but also in the green area, in the area of climate protection. By the way, the green light appears in community transport, and in the spirit of comfortable transport, we should make a lot of improvements. That's true everywhere, but especially in the Mountains. The renewal of the cool valley lines has already been undertaken by the capital, but the 59 tram line to Márton Áron tér and the purchase of low-floor, air-conditioned trams will simply not be sufficient for the city with government restrictions. Of course, the money taken from the municipalities should not be taken away, but if it is taken away, then at least it could be taken out of it. One of Budapest's oldest average age districts is ours, as well as many young families can find a new home here in addition to the elderly, so it particularly hurts to climb up several steps with tram passengers, which, by the way, has become bumpy from heavy cars and, in winter, can still be accessed on slippery roads. This is why the tram line 59 needs to be renovated, which is why it is necessary to support accessibility of stops and the purchase of modern, low-floor, air-conditioned trams. Again, I say not only that, but also that of the pro-government candidate, yet again more than 90 percent of the voters in the mountains and in Bel-Buda agree. In such initiatives, the government has a dog's duty to support the capital and the residents of Budapest, instead of drawing funds out of pettyness and revenge. This is how Buda can develop, and so the Mountains can be renewed. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, As many of you live in the district, you must be aware that reducing the traffic in the Mountains would raise a lot on the district's standard of living, and the fate of the Böszörményi road is decisive, as there is potential for this district to be a centre of champagne, green, cultural and community. The main street of the mountain region is such an initiative, but it requires state support, as the capital simply withdraws the resources that would have made it possible, and therefore it is important to support the greening, the transformation of the mountain region into pedestrian friendly and the development of community functions. This is how Buda can develop, so the Mountains can be renewed. Dear Parliament, There is one advantage of discussing the budget in the summer beyond what you have said that this is how you plan for next year, and that is that the climate disaster may be the least important one for you. In public areas that are often completely concreteized, paved and easily heated in summer, the state should support the deployment of more divergates, more drinking fountains and ensure their operation. We have also made proposals for this, and we are making proposals in our budgetary amendments. I ask that, even in view of the current panic, this will probably continue in the coming years, decades, and this climate crisis will not go away on its own, and you will also support these proposals. This is how Buda can develop, so that the Mountains can be renewed, and otherwise all our cities would need steamgates, drinking fountains, so that people don't have to live their daily lives in constantly embarrassing heat. But speaking of climate change, it is also essential to protect and expand our green surfaces. I therefore call on the government to support the renovation of the Városmajor and the Vérmező, in addition, the pro-government candidate stood up earlier and to support district authorities with a street greening programme. In the latter area, the municipalities could perform almost miracles with a few hundred million forints of money dwarfing the state budget. Less concreteisation and more green surfaces are needed. Dear Parliament, Nationally, as in the Mountains, the question of the thermal insulation of houses and apartments built in the past is decisive in terms of how much overhead is to be paid to the people living there, and their untimelyness actually increases the cost of overhead. So the sustainable reduction of the overhead costs starts with the solution to this problem. It is therefore proposed that we invest in the renovation and energy modernisation of municipal properties and apartments. This is a program that, if successful, can be extended to all the properties of the country, but again we are very happy to start this either in the Mountains or in Bel-Buda, there are plenty of old properties that need to be modernised. This is also the way to keep the costs low and start greening, as otherwise emissions are also decreasing across the country. In April, the inhabitants of Hegyvidék and Bel-Buda supported this point, and I propose that the National Assembly support this. This is how Buda can develop, so that the Hegyvidék can be renewed, and this is how we can protect Hungary in the long term from the rise of overhead and the release of a lot of harmful substances. Overall, I believe that these proposals have had sufficient support from either pro-government or opposition voters. We would very much welcome the adoption of these amendments, and if this budget were not the victim of various party political debates, and given that most of these small amounts, although the János Hospital may already be a larger item, I think that this should be a very good priority in the 2023 budget. Let's hope you won't deny it. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-22-56	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Béla Mihalffy, the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have also brought in today's debate a matter concerning my constituency, which I would like to present to the Parliament. CHAPTER XXI 1st century brings new and more and more important challenges to the world, to which we need to respond quickly and effectively. It is not enough to think about the epidemic situation in recent years, as there is still a war going on in our eastern neighbourhood, Ukraine. In addition, the negative impacts of climate change must be highlighted, which in agriculture are becoming unavoidable and essential to improve irrigation. After the coronal virus epidemic, the Hungarian economy maintained its capacity. Thanks to the determined construction of the last decade, its resilience has proved to be strong. Thanks to the success of the effective economic and economic re-launching programme, we have managed to protect jobs, so we have been able to restart the economy and life in Hungary significantly faster than in many other countries. Following the epidemic, the Russian-Ukrainian war in our eastern neighbourhood, as well as the energy policy in Brussels, has led to an increase in in inflationary pressures, which is mainly due to the economic and social impact of increasing prices of raw materials, food and energy. As our Fundamental Law states:. Natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, as well as cultural values, are a common heritage of the nation, the protection, maintenance and preservation of which is the duty of the state and everyone for future generations. As a result, we are responsible for our homeland for our future and for our children. It is in our fundamental national interest to treat our agricultural land properly, to ensure the protection and preservation of our water bases. Irrigation development should be of particular importance for the future of agriculture. The ever more extreme weather brings a number of new challenges to agriculture, which must be resolved as soon as possible. The biggest blow to Hungarian agriculture is water scarcity every year. The extraordinary weather can be felt by us ourselves, we can only think of summer extreme drought or mild winters, and they are a huge problem for domestic agriculture. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The southern region of the country, the Danube-Tisza public sandback, is the largest contiguous, unfortunately deserting area in Central Europe. The farms here thirst for water. The water resources on the surface and below the surface are fading from day to day. The amount of water found here is not enough to carry out agricultural work, and even to carry out activities related to the daily life of the population. Another challenge is the unpredictable precipitation, which places heavy inland waterways and drainage burdens on the community. [[16.00]] During the summers, heat periods are becoming increasingly severe and adequate cultivation is no longer sufficient to compensate for the droughts that have arisen, and the negative effects of water scarcity periods can be mitigated in particular by the introduction of irrigation farming. The future of the sandback near Szeged is thus guaranteed by irrigation communities. Without water, there is no agriculture, no food industry, and no culture of fruit and vegetables can be maintained. However, appropriate irrigation can reduce the harmful effects of climate change. The essence of irrigation communities is to bring together more farmers to create the community, the smaller territorial unit where adequate irrigation capacity can be created. Irrigation development is the basis for the safety and efficiency of agricultural production, which is a key issue for society and the environment. Irrigation management can lead to higher yields, higher incomes, and, on the other hand, due to the situation that has become more extreme due to precipitation and temperature, it can also be a solution to the achievement of yield security and the success of crop production. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-58	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Hiller, on behalf of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-59	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The debate on the draft budget has traditionally been heard, as the main evidence of the character of a particular government has been drawn up today. In a traditional sense, the pro-government people cheer and strengthen the whole or part of it, the opposition expresses its negative opinion as to why it thinks this is not appropriate; in the end, there is not much excitement in the sense that the pro-government majority votes, the opposition accepts [[Sic!]] And then the next day. And we think it's okay here, in this period of ours. I would like to agree with those who say that the world we live in today's Hungarian political life is more difficult and more complicated, as we, honourable Hungarian Members, will have to do with some of his sentences, such as sovereignty and courage, as I have heard from the Secretary of State. We've had terrible years, and we've had terrible months. What we have experienced over the past three years, everyone, not just politicians, everyone, has been emotionally borne by us barely being able to comprehend that we, as parents, have seen our students as educators and, as elected representatives, we are all familiar and unknown in the constituency. We thought we'd come out of this terrible plague of God, a pandemic that only one of us could have lived over a century ago. We had no idea how we would react to this. And, honourable Members, it is foolish not to raise such a question when it comes to the fact that the budget is no more than a set of numbers. It's not like that. Therefore, I would like to encourage you, indeed, those who are pro-government and opposition, representatives of Hungarian people, of this country, to leave these template texts now. I understand the demand that a pro-government representative should accept the budget and that the opposition will vote against it, but the debate, the time frame, will only give us an opportunity to behave as normal people to each other, at least try. In some cases, this atmosphere, which prevails in this House, does not make this possible, but when we talk about a character for the whole year, let's try this. That's why I'm not making a plea or a plea. If you're willing to take part in the thinking with me, I should have come to the gym today. My area of expertise, or rather, what I may have gained with pleasure and during the decades of my life, is perhaps more knowledge than a representative in general, a matter of education and culture. I must say to you that, according to the traditional wording, in the last few weeks, if a politician spoke about education, he had to talk about teacher wages, missed or defended them. I would be so happy if this were the sole problem of Hungarian education. And please believe that while I am going to talk about it, you are, too, because you all have to be in the constituency with parents whose children go to school, kindergarten or even university, or with teachers who teach, I know that many of you have educational qualifications, or have them in your family, we do not yet see the devastation that has been done in the souls of the smallest, well-known, schoolchildren and schoolchildren, by this terrible epidemic. It was a terrible thing to see every day the number of our lost fellow nations and fellow citizens, but now I ask you to accept that there is something that even my profession and science are trying to understand just now that a six-year-old boy, a seven-year-old girl, an eight-year-old, third-year-old schoolboy, has lived through this and how we can help her somehow move on. Here, I must interrupt this line of thought and express my opinion, in which we can easily disagree. That is public education, you call it public education, so the concept of public education that you have introduced is a teaching career from one side, professional requirements from the other side, created between 11 and 13 in the first half of the 2010s, introduced, in any case we have a real experience almost a decade ago, the fact is that in a professional sense, dear Members, failed. This isn't working. It is just a cry of inefficiencies, expressed by teachers or by many teachers in the matter of wages, and a different kind of attention is shown by domestic and international achievements that our children, students' learning skills and achievements have stagnated over the last decade, if I am very, very well-meaning. By the way, the truth is, Members, that they are happy about it, and that is to be welcomed today if it does not decrease. Imagine the educational official report published a few weeks ago, which was forced to be pleased that the results had been slightly reduced. I say to you, and I ask you to take this into account, that while I say that this concept of public education has failed, I note that a lot of money has been put into it, I must say, Mr. Secretary of State has also mentioned a number, namely, how much money the rating system of teachers has required, said the HUF 70 billion, you may remember, you know, I look at this from another side, that the knowledge of teachers that they are able to deliver has improved, in Hungarian, their ability to teach. No! They also put many, many billions of forints into the pedagogical career, and even the start was slightly more than 135, and then had to be financed continuously, and the result was not better. [[16.10]] I must tell you, and I ask that you control what I say, and that the Priori do not accept anything. This is a budget, including a chapter on education and public education, in which any strange thing I say is not my problem with the principal amount of education. It can always be said that more, and one opposition says that more money is needed. My problem is, I think they're funding something that doesn't bring up the quality. It's a bad concept. And you included funding for a bad concept in this budget. I'll tell you something that I think should be in it, but it's not. Please believe me, if you don't, from your own memories, everyone has graduated from their own college, university, learned their own profession, it's very, very well done, please believe that whether in technical sciences, science, economics or my field of science, in human science, it's difficult to understand processes, to memorize data, to study and to teach everything. But, you know, what's more difficult than that? Learn how to connect the letter to the letter l in writing; or how to read the word mother; or learn what is so simple to say: simple as simple as simple. That's one of the most complicated things in life. Those children, those students who were forced to take part in digital education during Covid's time, and thus learned what you, I, all of us, have learned from the teacher's aunt and teacher, are naturally behind, dear Members who question the base of their later knowledge, because knowledge can only be built on a strong foundation, as well as anyone who can learn a foreign language who can control their mother tongue. They won't be able to understand geography, biology, chemistry, history, astronomy if they're not sure how to describe the word "house". That's what we need to provide an extra source for now. You have no idea. I suggest you think about it, and I'm not saying more money for that, but since I think the funding for this concept is wrong, because it's a bad concept, you can regroup me, you can name what you want. Reinforcing the basic competence of 6-7 and 8-year-old Hungarian boys and girls, and providing a substitute for those teachers, let's call this a Covid education allowance! For four consecutive years, I propose that students of the traditional lower school and teachers, teachers and teachers of the traditional lower school try to cut down this God's plague due to an epidemic by means of budgetary means, with an appropriate professional concept. Please consider this. This is, therefore, what is presented in the language of public education, in the language of funding, the financing of standing water. This is the budget for standing water, I'm talking about public education. There is one that you already know doesn't work, but there is a small amount of money set up for something deep down in your soul, or those who deal with it, can tell their own people that you're not improving anything in the world of Hungarian education. I want to talk more about the teacher's wages. Mr Secretary of State has explained that, here, as a result of the debate with Brussels, they hope for this resource. I propose that we agree that the primary source and basis of the long-term financing of the Hungarian wage system should be the Hungarian central budget. There's something you can imagine, which is a separate question, why they couldn't find funds for that in the budget. Why is this a small increase in wages for Hungarian teachers, which they want to start from Brussels? But since it's a cumulative edition, it's obviously not going in the long run, because whatever kind of money they're fighting out... You know what? I wish you would agree with Brussels. What's good for me is that the more money comes to Hungary, my problem was that they had a fight. But the point is that they bring the money home, put part of it into education, but they will not be able to finance the long-term pay table of Hungarian teachers, so let's face it. They rushed to the fire cooler in Brussels, which is a very controversial decision as to why it is the issue of Hungarian teachers. I would like to draw attention to another Ministry's expenditure on other areas of education, higher education. Here I think that I can say something that few people know among the honourable members of the government, while I am sure that everyone has university contacts, personal or institutional, or even a constituency. Please, today, for the sake of simplicity, let us take the wages of university teachers from the state's central budget source, not primarily depends on their performance, not on their career, not on their citations, but on their work at a state-owned university, or as an instructor of a state-owned institution, now outsourced foundations. You can't say that to me in the world! I have relatively many colleagues within the Union and outside the EU who work at university, but it is so that between the salaries of two university professors with the same performance while both are financed by the state budget by the distinguishing principle that one is in a state university and the other is outsourced by foundations, well, there is no such thing in the world! Within this, it will be explained separately by the Hungarian... Well, I think we have only a President of the Republic or a Madam President, we have no republic, but I do not want to bring you into this ideological debate right now, I simply say that a budget in which representatives of the Republic of Hungary vote less money for a professor working in the state higher education institution of the Republic of Hungary than for a professor who does not work there, I do not know how to match it. The guaranteed salary of the state university teaching position is HUF 554 400 according to the budget. At the outsourced universities, let's say, the same professor works at the University of Pécs, the University of Szeged or the University of Debrecen, between 700 and 800 thousand. In this, tell me what the logic is. Only one logic could be that some of the remaining state universities are being asked to go out to the foundation by means of financing, financial means, while, believe me, there is no technical justification in the world. Otherwise, here in the area are universities that are of better quality by any world ranking than any Hungarian university in Vienna, Heidelberg, Padova, Krakow, Warsaw, Prague, all of them state and all of them! Go to Vienna, Universität Wien, tell the Senate there to recommend taking this university away from the Austrian state. Well, they're not gonna make it. This is what we did, more precisely you, and the professor of the same talent and diligence of the organized university, are doing 300,000 forints a month more than the one who works at the State University of the Republic of Hungary. It's not okay. [[16.20]] There is one thing, and I think it's worth talking about, which, when I looked at it, I had to read it twice, and I was happy about it. Not that I've read it twice, but what it says. They created the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, and I see that it was already a great act that the EMMI was abolished, and that deserves a round of applause because it was terrible. I think it is right in a structural sense that culture is linked to innovation, that it can be brought out of this, that I find it particularly exciting, with an interested eye and mind, to see what they are doing about it, because the structure provides a way and opportunity for good things, and that much more money is spent on public culture, public collections and public education. Of course, there was something to be done to improve it, because it was pushed into a terrible state, but now that it's been noticed after a crisis, it's the right direction to vote for. Finally, I must tell you that as a representative of Pesterzsébet and Kispest, who has been elected for the fifth time in a row, I am making amendments that are not made for right-wing and left-wing people, but for those living there. Please consider these. All that I have said about public education, higher education and the state of culture throughout the budget, I would very much like to ask you to accept it as a call for debate and an opposition opinion with the intention of improving it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-22-60	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Sándor Font from the Fidesz fraction. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am still a little under the influence of the words of my fellow Member, who has been speaking to me for a long time, who has been speaking with me, who has made a name and rank in public education, and I do not want to follow his mood and style, yet I would like to speak about agriculture from another aspect. From an aspect that does not speak in the language of numbers, as the budget does, but I would like agriculture to be reflected in a light and colour that may be given attention to by outsiders. For some reason, agriculture in our society and in all modern societies is a little on the periphery, little on the job, and we do not take into account the simple fact that agriculture produces food, and people consume food, and there is no man in the world who can pull himself out of the influence of agriculture. This is an extremely serious link that I think we are missing, and we must unfortunately come to a Russian-Ukrainian war, which highlights what it means when food prices are properly or unduly released, highlights how we can produce our own food, what happens if Ukrainian grain and maize do not arrive at the right place and a vacuum arises. That vacuum will have to be filled, and then there will be an even more suction effect on food, and it will increase the price, and then we will be able to keep to ourselves the right amount of food to feed the people of our own country. So, we need a situation like this, when we start to feel that it would be better to pay more attention to agriculture, agriculture deserves more. Perhaps I would like to highlight these tiny moments, both in Hungary and in Europe and in the world, in the context of the budget. Unfortunately, the greens often say that the poison greens have started to figure out that agriculture is one of the main causes of global climate change. There are all kinds of numbers to this, how much CO2 emissions, greenhouse gases, and they are transferring it back to agriculture at the same time. Of course, transport costs are included, and it is not noted that the most serious part of this is that globalisation has reached it: if you cannot produce it cheaply, then I will produce it in the other part of the world, and then I will deliver it to the consumer through the global system at the end of which the food is supplied by the shiny multinational supermarket chains with shiny shelves. Oh, yeah, so there's gonna be quite a lot of greenhouse gas and CO2 emissions and everything else that's not desirable. Then they display an icon animal, this cattle, which is today the most hated species of radical greens. Because he drinks water at the front, which they think is unnecessary, and while the greatest danger is that we run out of fresh water, these cattle are wasting this large amount of water to produce a kilo of meat, and at the back, it's picking up gases for biological reasons that are ultimately very harmful to global warming. That's why we should eliminate these natural meat-based animals, repress the CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions and water-absorption products and animals, and instead try to make people believe that they can eat artificial meat and plastic-like; but, like, meat, believe me, and for you, it'll be good, it'll make you trendy and real green, and you'll save the world, so eat this now. Of course, we need animal proteins, no fairy tales, but don't take it from cattle. But here are the creatures that make the best use of water, an insect and a worm! Today, it is a fact, a 2021 result, that the European Food Safety Authority has been authorised, now two of them, one of which is the flour worm and the other is the locust; these other protein-producing organisms have been designated fit for human consumption at the expense of large, insane victims. They're suggesting they advertise it, and they're getting the flu, that it's trendy now to be able to eat protein from flour worms and locusts if you're still a protein maniac and you want to exist at all. This process hasn't stopped, the cricket is in line now, and I'd like to have the cricket accepted now. Speaker László Kövér, at one of these traditional farmland pig slaughters, when we told him what challenges we were faced with and what answers to these agricultural questions, he said that the next great dilemma of our time is that I am a cricket or a cricket. It looks like we're going to do something like this, but I say we reject the fact that agriculture is the biggest cause of Earth warming and the biggest pollution. Let us not forget that this continues to be fossil energy mining, including oil mining, and then what they do not like, especially flu, does not like to admit to the textile industry, the clothing industry is the world's second largest environmental polluter with all its production steps. In addition, it is these flu medicines that encourage cool people to change their clothes every two weeks, even though the discarded clothes are now destroyed separately in the plants used to burn them, because they can no longer give them to anyone, the poor countries of the world. Then what will remain of us Hungarians in such a situation? Should we fool ourselves and follow this trend, or should we take advantage of the agricultural conditions we have here in the Carpathian Basin? I claim that yes, this traditional conservative path must be pursued, of course, in every step of this, by striving not to be wasteful, to shorten the journey from agricultural land to table as much as possible. GMO-free is a key issue for Hungarian agriculture, because this is how we can create a truly beneficial situation for ourselves against those who have not accepted GMO-free products, because our environment is now contaminated and the demanding consumer wants to consume GMO-free products. [[16.30]] We know this in field crop production, and in meat production, we are on the right track to ensure that feed is no longer GMO. We can't provide them all with regard to protein feed yet, but we can provide the vast majority of them. So in a concept, we're going forward, and there's no fairy tale, for those official and intermediate organizations like Nébih, villager network, mountain justice network, you have to be here to deal with these emergencies if you have to. In this respect, it is exciting how the budget we have just submitted is related to these issues. Here we have heard the important thoughts of my fellow Member Béla Mihálffy about irrigation and water use. I dare say, even after István Hiller's dramatic, emotional speech, that agriculture is part of the budget, which supports and will carry on the concept that I have declared. I understand that there's a tight budget. But let's be honest, there are some of us here who have been reading budgets for a long time. It's been like this before, the 2010 was like this, it was a post-emergency situation. There was one in 2021. [[Dr. István Hiller: I understand from an educational point of view.]] Of course, from an educational point of view, I understood that. I have acquaintances who say that two grades have been missed, first-second-graders and second-third-graders, who have had the problem István talked about. But even during the virus situation, we have created a virus protection fund and an economic re-launch fund, just like two foundations now, who are monitoring the base of this budget. I know these two funds also give the government some room for manoeuvre, let's be honest, because it's an emergency. This is an emergency for the war. Maybe it'll be an emergency for the food supply. But I dare say that I am calm now, because the government has not gone mad, and it has the interests of Hungary in mind, and it will use it in this respect, yes, we will accept the budget, as you said, István, that this is the natural order of things, and we are still a little bit on top of it, and I claim that the government will use the budget that will be adopted on this basis. And I say, of course, that the budget is tight, but from an agricultural point of view, it will continue to help a functioning, secure agriculture. Therefore, I dare say that with this sector in mind in particular, I am encouraging support for everyone on my part. Of course, we will also have amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-62	Thank you, Congressman. President Novak can't keep his pre-arranged comment because he's not here, so I'm giving the floor to Tamás Melár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, For the fifth time, at least with my participation in the budget, many things in this budget come back familiar. I will say a few words about these very briefly at the level of the mention, but I do not want to talk about it for a long time, because I have said it in recent years, but it is highly likely that it is useless or without results. One of the recurring things is that the government is submitting the budget for next year too early, when the necessary information is not yet available. We've said this many times. This is particularly important now, when there is very serious uncertainty in the world economy, and the situation is very uncertain at all because of the economic situation and the war. The other thing is how transparent the budget is. We have also repeatedly said that this budget is not really transparent. The current Trust and Defence Fund serves the same purpose to hide the goals towards which budget support will flow. Based on investigations by international organisations, the transparency of the Hungarian budget is at the level of the Black-African countries. There wasn't any change here either, I said that last year, but without results. Then, again, the share of economic aid and administrative expenditure is very high, and welfare expenditure is education, health care and the social sphere is low. There was no breakthrough here, too. And I would just like to confirm what my fellow Member, István Hiller, said earlier, that we are already in the final hours of education and higher education. If there is no significant change here, then our break will continue. Finally, another element is inflation and the euro exchange rate. Here, too, every year, inflation was underestimated by the Ministry of Finance and it was very optimistic about the euro exchange rate. You can see now that they are expecting a 5.2 percent inflation rate next year and a HUF 377 exchange rate. Obviously, both are very far from the current reality, and most likely these will not be sustainable. But this is not a coincidence either, the government always consciously does so, because this is how it can implement it by improving the fiscal balance by making inflation much higher than planned, and the forint will be much weaker, and this will be particularly beneficial for the government in terms of balance. Obviously, this means a tax on inflation, and the inflation tax will be paid by a large part of society and, above all, by poor people. But it's all been happening consciously for years. However, in addition to what has been said, there is a very important element, which, I think, is a new element, and I would like to discuss this in a little bit more detail in my remaining time, and this is the concept of the budget itself. Obviously, the budget always reflects the government's economic policy concept. But what is the economic policy objective of the fifth Orbán government in 2022-23? In short, the defense, the escape of the crisis, the etching. Indeed, the Prime Minister and the Government are well aware that significant changes are taking place in world policy, including in the world economy. However, there is a misunderstanding here because they think that these changes and changes in the world economy are only temporary, which have come up in the past years because of the Covid epidemic, and now they are coming up because of the war. Therefore, they put that false, faulty concept at the heart of this budget that we can protect, Hungary can protect these negative effects, so we do not have to adapt to the changing world, the economic system of NER, the economic system that developed between 2012 and 18 can be preserved. But despite the debt reduction fund and the freezing of fuel prices, which, of course, takes considerable budgetary resources, my bad news is that the changes in the world economy will prove to be permanent, and because of this lasting change, the government will not be able to manage this in the long term, and ultimately, anyone who misses this adaptation process, this transition, will not be able to manage it in the long term. Because scarce resources are not used for development purposes, not for structural change, but for maintaining the status quo, and this is a serious strategic problem. It's haunted by the shadows of the past, because we played it once in the '70s when the oil price exploded. As a result of the oil price explosion, the then government spoke about the fact that the oil price increase will not ring up to us, we will protect the Hungarian people from the oil price rise, from the fuel price rise, and accordingly failed to adapt. But even though he referred to the fact that he was protecting Hungarian people, he was actually protecting the uncompetitive socialist corporate system, he wanted to protect it from world market changes. The result is known: record levels of debt and fallback, untimely, energy-eating industries remained, and the microelectronics revolution was almost entirely left out in Hungary. [[16.40]] Now there are similar stories. The story now is that the Orbán government is talking about protecting small people from energy price increases, but it is actually trying to protect and finance NER large companies in this situation. But the result will be that there will be considerable and substantial debt in the budget. So, if we can use an indication of the budget ahead, this will be the budget of great indebtedness, even if there will be significant cuts, and even if we manage to obtain all the EU funds, just because it is a bottomless well that the state has decided to do things that are inefficient and uncompetitive, and that it has completely changed. Obviously, the other main feature is that this budget for the big lag is going to be the budget of the 23rd, because the Orbáns are not trying to protect small people, but their own large companies from the changes, and so we will be left out of the fourth industrial revolution, the change in the energy platform, so instead of fossil energy, we will be able to switch to renewable energy. As a result, more wasted years will come, even if GDP increases by 3-4 or even more per cent over the next one or two years. Let us remember that GDP grew dynamically in the '70s, while we were becoming more and more dynamic. So what I see from the opposition side is that what I see from the previous speakers in some way, but with a slightly modified opinion so far, is that it is really important that there will be cuts, and that there will be significant cuts, and that these cuts will obviously be painful, and that many sacrifices will be made. But unfortunately, the problem with this is that these victims will not bring results, because they will use these funds to maintain the status quo, not to catch up, and that Hungary is able to enter an emerging career, and unfortunately this shows a very serious, very negative vision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-22-64	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Banai has spoken. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me first to respond to the words of Congressman Tamás Mellar, Professor. I am forced to repeat myself, but there have been allegations made that made me feel that some of the statements that have already been made today need to be made again. The first thing is whether this proposal for a budget law contains austerity or not. This is not just a game with words when we say that the civil government does not apply austerity, but we are making a distinction between measures that belong to a different economic policy before 2010, which were the answers to the difficulties at the time, and the economic policy responses followed after 2010, which appear in a completely different philosophy in the proposal for a fiscal law before you. Why do I say that it's not just a game with words? We call it austerity measures when the government encourages actors to curb internal demand, for example by withdrawing pensions and wages, and thus by reducing incomes and reducing economic performance. But the professor knows exactly that this was the case before 2010. I don't always want to point to the past. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] But, Professor, we know precisely that in the crisis of 2008-09, these measures, which are characterised by austerity, have exacerbated the crisis. It is no coincidence that the decline in the Hungarian economy at that time was greater than the EU average. We also know that the government did not use such tools, for example, during the crisis caused by Covid, the performance of the Hungarian economy exceeded the EU average. What you call austerity, we say, is that the bill contains a fair burden that involves, to a greater extent than previously, sectors that have generated additional revenue in sectors, and we believe that channelling these additional revenues into the budget will not lead to a fall in demand. Why? That's because we're talking sectors. The banking sector and the energy sector are sectors where there are demonstrably additional income and additional tax bases. Part of this additional tax base should be paid into the central budget in 2022 and 23 years. Where's the extra income coming from? Not from restrictions, but from the fact that the number of people employed is now one million higher than in 2010 and from the fact that the incomes have increased far above inflation in recent years, and from the figures we have calculated so far, this will be the case this year and in 2023, as we hope. And if the population's income increases, it can consume more, invest more and generate additional revenue from the budget. So, I repeat, the "suppression" so I can't agree. With regard to the time at which the budget is submitted, if the Member says that in a war environment there is greater uncertainty than before, I agree with that. But then let's talk about this, that every budget is surrounded by uncertainty. Allow me to do two things here, Congressman. From the past 20 to 30 years, Hungarian experience shows that the maintenance of a budget was not primarily determined by the Parliament's decision when it was decided. Again, I would ask the Member to look at the budgetary documents of the government before 2010 and the plans in it, and then what happened in reality. So we saw budgets on which Parliament voted at the end of December, and then the implementation was something completely different. So the first thing I would like to say is that the date of adoption of the bill alone does not determine whether the budget is sound or not. The other thing I would like to say is that, yes, I agree with the Professor that there is obviously a uncertainty factor in previous adoption six months later that we can have more information when drawing up economic policy projections. But the early budget has its advantages. It is not only the pro-government, but also the opposition representatives who accept that it is a point of adjustment for businesses in a changing world, if they know what tax system we have to face and the risks can be eliminated by reserves. The next year's draft budget law also includes HUF 170 billion, a HUF 25 billion larger than this year's budget for the financing of unforeseen expenditure. The Member said that we do not know what facts were. We know what facts are available in 2021, whether in terms of economic growth, deficit or government debt, and we can also see them on Eurostat's website, so as not to mention domestic sources of information. As regards the transparency of the budget, the Member said that we are at the level of Black Africa. I would ask everyone to show me the objective document showing this lack of transparency. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Open Budget Survey!]] Open Budget Survey, thank you very much. Congressman! Do you know who is putting it together and how many Member States of the European Union are involved? [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: I know!]] Then the Member knows precisely that he knows that a significant part of the countries of the European Union are not included in this, and the Member is likely to know that, from a country to country, an organisation provides information on the budgetary figures of that country, his subject matter strongly determines what kind of opinion it forms on this budget. I have mentioned an example today, and the Hungarian organization says that there is no six-month report on the state of the budget in Hungary. So in much more detail, much more often, we account for what the central budget looks like, as otherwise, the sample was the six-month report. If you like, we don't give a six-month report in a year, but a monthly report in 12 reports. This organisation says that in Hungary there is no easy, transparent graphical presentation of the budget plans, which shows citizens the main purposes for which expenditure and revenue are spent. [[16.50]] It is precisely their proposal that a budget for citizens has been put before the Honourable Parliament for years, graphically showing what public expenditure and revenue look like. For some reason, it's not right for their taste. And why isn't it appropriate? Because I ask you to look at the website of the organization that provides data about Hungary, Professor, Member, and it will be clear who will give you the mandate, what attitude, how valuable this organisation is. I am convinced that if another organisation were asked to evaluate the Hungarian numbers, they would issue a completely different result, a completely different set of data. The welfare costs are lower than they should be. I don't want to repeat it, but by far we see an increase in expenditure over inflation either in health care or in education. I am not saying that there is no room for additional resources yet, but I would just like to state factually that expenditure is increasing in these areas. And factually, I would like to say that unemployment benefits within welfare expenditure have, yes, been significantly reduced. If we compare the figures before 2010, we know precisely that this is mainly due to the fact that the unemployment rate is now much lower than it was a decade ago, if we know precisely that the availability of skilled workers, perhaps in the labour market, is a bigger problem than unemployment, and thanks to God, the related expenditure will be reduced. I am not happy when a country's welfare expenditure is increasing because unemployment is increasing. Well, we have seen a number of examples of this, so I ask that when we talk about a comprehensive expenditure, for example, welfare expenditure, let us look in detail at how those expenditures are going. Mr. Congressman, in terms of welfare expenditure, he said in connection with this he said that inflation is underestimated, underestimated by the government. Next year, the 5.2 percent prognosis is in line with the Bank's prognosis, and in this context, the Member said that if inflation is higher, the poor will pay the price. Then the Member said that the government does not change anything in the changing world, so that is the word that was used only if I wrote it right, the purpose of the government. And he referred to the two funds as one of the ways or ways of hacking through the budget law next year: the Rehabilitation Fund and the Defence Fund. Why am I saying this? Because, Congressman, if you are concerned about the rise in inflation and are concerned that the poor will pay for it, the greater inflation, you can expressly support the Trust Fund, you can expressly support the government's objective of keeping the overhead fixed, staying low, staying lowest at EU level. If, therefore, I repeat, you are concerned about the position of the poor, then this element of the budget bill must be strongly supported. And you also know that in the consumption of households, for example, pensioners or poorer groups in the consumption basket, overhead expenditure is more important than the average. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] And, Congressman, allow me also to draw your attention to the fact that, when you talk about breaking down, you are talking about a budget that is much behind, and you are talking about how the income of the lower-income layers is developing, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in recent years, from 2013, the change in net wages has far exceeded inflation. And I would also like to remind you that the change in average wages has exceeded the rise in income for the lower incomes. To remind you that this year was a 20 percent minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage increase. And you remember precisely, Mr President, that, in the context of the 2016 Tripartite agreement, if you will, the government, under the agreement of employees and employers, has increased the earnings of low incomers for years to a greater extent than average wages. That is the spirit of next year's draft budget law. We want to protect the level of employment and the rise in wages. And finally, the big debt budget. Congressman, let me mention Eurostat numbers and let me be factual. If we look at a slightly longer time horizon, we can say that every year between 2002 and 2010 the Hungarian debt-to-GDP ratio increased. From 2011 to 2019, this debt ratio decreased every year. In response to Covid: I remember precisely the Member's comment at the time when he urged the state to act in a countercyclical manner, to increase the deficit and increase the debt. Yes, the Hungarian budget was in that position, and there was the confidence of investors in which we were able to react with tax reductions and additional expenditures to the decline in demand due to the Covid crisis. This helped to maintain the number of jobs at a high level and to increase net incomes in 2020. The consequence of this was, of course, an increase in the debt ratio. I would remind everyone that the Hungarian debt ratio rose exactly in line with the average debt ratio increase in the European Union, and then in 2021 this debt ratio decreased. We hope that this will be maintained in 22 and also in 23, so when the Member talks about the importance of reducing the debt ratio, I think that we agree that this is the spirit of the draft budget law for next year, and I think that this policy is worth following, not only because the Fundamental Law makes it mandatory for us, but also because it is now more expensive to finance debt in all countries than it was a few months ago. Finally, allow me to respond very briefly to Mr István Hiller's speech. If I may, I would like to thank you for the calm manner in which you have spoken to the budget. Let me thank you for also giving me an opinion on the availability of significant resources in the field of education. This is true of public education, and this is also true of higher education. In higher education, I note that twice a 15% wage increase was made in 2021 and 22 for both model changers and state-reserved institutions. It is undoubtedly a fact that the additional funding provided to institutions deciding on a change of model has even given them the opportunity to provide additional wages in the institutions in addition to the two-fold increase in wages of 15% for all. My point is: thank you for recognising that there are substantial resources in both public education and higher education. I agree with the Member, Minister, that the figures provide the framework for moving forward in one area, and I have never argued that the availability of budgetary resources is an element to increase the quality of service. Of course, this is true not only in the field of public education, higher education, but also in the field of health. This is what we are working on, and I hope that, let's say, the increase in the level of service, as I have already mentioned in health care, will be possible by making it possible for doctors to increase their wages in next year's draft budget law despite the war, despite the hardships. The last time I mentioned a wage, Mr President, you mentioned that there was a question as to why the government wanted to finance teachers' wages from EU funds. On the one hand, we have a philosophy that there is public money, that Hungary has European Union resources, and that there are other public expenditures, if you like, with domestic revenue. But this is all public money that belongs to Hungary, whether it is European Union funds that have already been decided by the Council and the European Parliament, or other resources. If the European Commission is particularly open to funding teachers' wages, why not do so? Of course, after the available EU funds ran out, the government then agreed that our intention, this government, was to keep wages, no matter what the problem. So, in the long term, the government's intention is to maintain the level of wages. I repeat: we do not think about cuts in wages or cuts in wages in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-22-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have reached the end of the first round of speakers. Two-minute speeches are coming up. I give the floor to Balázs Barkóczi.
u2022-06-22-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Well, from your mouth it has been said so many times in the last few minutes that I sincerely felt sorry for you that as an employee of the Ministry of Finance, you still had to support that economic policy. More than once before 2010 the word "ungarian interest" came out of the mouth of the pro-government representatives, and if we have already talked about education by our fellow Member Hiller, and you have also referred to it, Mr. Secretary of State, then let me bring you two data only from education, which is also a matter of my heart, since I have spent 12 years as a teacher. [[17.00]] One of the data, and this relates to wage planning, is that today the wages of a beginner educator can remain unchanged for about 14 years, since a beginner educator should supplement his salary by HUF 16 300 each month to reach the guaranteed minimum wage. The second is that, last year, 12.1 percent of 18-24-year-olds did not have secondary education, i.e. they could be considered early school leavers. I would like to point out that in the last 20 years, this number was once lower, between 2004 and 2009; perhaps you will remember that the Prime Minister was then called Ferenc Gyurcsány. What do we see in the current draft budget? You spend 11 percent more on public bureaucracy, while only 3.4 percent of GDP is spent on education, far below the EU average. What will this result? The Hungarian children will once again be at a competitive disadvantage, and the masses of teachers will leave education. If you think that's the Hungarian interest, congratulations. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-06-22-68	Thank you, Congressman. We would like to continue with the speakers announced in advance. I give the floor to László Szászfalvi, from KDNP. Here you go, Congressman. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-06-22-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Act always clearly shows how seriously a government or a party of government means what they say, what they represent, because the budget provides a framework and a financial and economic framework for our values. It gives priority to the areas it sees as important and even more important in the interests of the country and the nation during the given period, i.e. in practice in everyday life, in this framework it ensures the survival, preservation, and functioning and development of the country and the nation. T/152. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 aims to play this role in a very difficult time, after the pandemic and in the face of the challenges of the Russian-Ukrainian war, war inflation and economic crisis, to provide a financial and economic framework for protecting our values and results in such an economic and international situation next year; to maintain the country's viability and to protect Hungarian society and families from the harmful and opaque effects of the crisis. Therefore, the 2023 budget is a budget for public health and defence; this budget also protects family support and pensions, as well as jobs. It will also mean financial stability for the country in the face of this war inflation and economic crisis. Dear House, KDNP is a family party, so it is vital for us to continue to ensure the predictability and security of everyday life for families, retired and elderly people through the budget. In addition, KDNP is not only a party to families, but also a party to communities. There can't be a country, a nation with families, without living communities. This is why, in the previous period, we considered the assistance and predictable budget support of communities as a vital issue as well as families. These communities, which form a nation from society, give life meaning and identity, and make the country a country for citizens. Such communities are our Hungarian overseas national communities, our churches and the nationalities living in Hungary. The proposed budget law for next year will continue to provide safe management for these communities, and, despite difficult external economic conditions, it will continue to maintain predictable planning of operations and development and the financial basis for their work, activities and service. Therefore, the KDNP parliamentary group will support T/152. The draft law on the central budget for 2023, as presented in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me now talk a little bit more about these areas, first of all in the area of national policy. The draft budget of 2023 confirms that Hungary will under no circumstances release the hands of Hungarian communities from abroad. It shows that, just as in the epidemic situation, so at present, in the situation caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war conflict, there will be continuous and continuous support for Hungarians across the border. It is very important to point out that the bill contains the necessary resources for the functioning of the institutions and organisations of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, which is in a very difficult situation, and for the implementation of their activities. In addition to their basic tasks in the current war situation, these institutions and their organisations also carry out humanitarian tasks in support, accommodation, catering and other forms of support to Ukrainian refugees from Transcarpathia. In addition to the direct support of refugees from Ukraine and Transcarpathia to Hungary and from the areas of internal Ukraine to Transcarpathia, we therefore indirectly contribute to enabling those who had to leave their homes because of the war situation to receive the necessary assistance. Minister of State Árpád Potápi announced just yesterday that, in support of Transcarpathian Hungarians, the Transcarpathian social programme package aims to avoid leaving the homeland of Transcarpathian Hungarians despite the extremely difficult situation. Dear House, The bill ensures the continued functioning of the launched and continuously operated national political programmes for years, thus the Unlimited! The program, which has already provided more than 500 thousand students from Hungary with a study trip abroad. The new phases of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor and Petőfi Sándor programmes forced to pause due to the epidemic may also be realized. The diaspora and sporadic communities have been able to implement a number of new activities, events and programmes with the help of scholarships in recent years. A programme of national importance to ensure continuity and continuity of the functioning and activities of foreign Hungarian institutions and organisations with a top priority from a national policy point of view, as well as a programme of calls for proposals for implementation of their operations, development, procurement of assets and events, programmes, can be continued. Within the framework of the programmes, thousands of Hungarian communities from abroad can receive support each year. The draft budget also provides support from individual sectors for foreign Hungarians. The construction of a single Carpathian Basin space in the fields of public and higher education, youth, culture, churches, agriculture, tourism and heritage conservation can continue. Among other things, the Diaspora higher education scholarship programme implemented for the first time under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in 2021 can be implemented, but further improvements can be made within and within the framework of the further operation and economic development programme of the Carpathian Basin, which has been well established for years. Under the supervision of the Agricultural Ministry, the construction of the villager network in the Carpathian Basin continues. So the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Technology and Industry, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Arts and the Bethlen Gábor Fund can manage more than HUF 53.1 billion in the following year, and so we can say with a calm heart that it will not only be the country's budget but also the entire Hungarian nation's budget. [[17.10]] Secondly, let me talk more about church politics. According to the 2011 census, more than 55 percent of people in Hungary claim to belong to a church, mostly one of the historical Christian churches. Since 2010, there has been more than a double increase in the number of persons attending church-owned public education institutions and vocational training institutions, which is now more than 240,000 people. In the area of social and child protection benefits, there has been a significant increase in church presence. In the area of social care, they increased from 15.1 percent to 25 percent and from 6.5 percent to 72 percent in the area of child protection. Over the past 12 years, more than 3,000 churches have been renewed in Hungary and in the Hungarian inhabited areas of the Carpathian Basin, and nearly 200 new churches have been built with Hungarian government support. In 2021, the government announced the Hungarian church reconstruction programme with a budget of HUF 25.7 billion, which will, of course, have a budgetary impact in the following year as well. In the framework of this, 1,800 projects have already been launched and new projects can be completed. The allocation of funds for the income supplement for ecclesiastical persons will continue to increase, thus increasing by nearly three times compared to last year's level, the distribution of this, the specific per capita amount, may be decided by the churches in their own jurisdiction. As regards additional support for ecclesiasticals serving abroad in Hungarian, a larger amount of funding will be available here as well, continuing the previous trend. A total of HUF 5 billion per year is available from 2022. In 2022, the average wage-based support for church school religious education was introduced with an additional budget of HUF 6 billion. This will provide a total budget of HUF 17.9 billion for compulsory and optional teaching of faith. In total, we can say that in the last three years, there has been a 20% increase in the initial allocation under budgetary law. Obviously, changes to the budget have been made over the years, which, of course, is not yet visible in the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to mention a few points in the area of nationality policy. In Hungary there are 13 indigenous nationalities: Bulgarians, Greeks, Croatians, Poles, Germans, Armenians, Roma, Romanians, Ruthenians, Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenians and Ukrainians. Compared to the 2001 census, the number and proportion of those who confess their nationality increased by one and a half times. In 2011, 644 524 people, or 6.5 percent of the population, expressed their belonging to one of the nationalities. Hungary's nationality policy is also exemplary at European level; since 2010, support for indigenous nationalities in Hungary has increased to an unprecedented extent. In 2022, the aid already increased by six times the amount 12 years earlier. The number of schools maintained by national authorities has increased by about eight times: while in 2010 there were 12 such institutions in Hungary, in the year 2021/22, more than 18 thousand students are studying. The total amount of national minority applications increased to HUF 1.6 billion in 2022. Since 2010, the kindergartens, schools, cultural and community institutions of all our indigenous nationalities have been constantly renewed. As of 2020, we published a call for a specific request for budgetary support for the investment, renovation and maintenance activities of nationalities. So far, 761 projects have been funded and will continue in the following year. In recent years, there has been a steady increase in the nationality allowance for teachers who have completed education in the field of nationality. This has increased to 40 per cent from 2020 onwards, with the extension of the range of eligible for the differentiation of the bonus, which will also continue in the following year. From 2019, the government introduced a National Education Teacher Scholarship Programme, and from the 2020/21 academic year we extended it to all national education students, with a total of HUF 920 million in government support so far. As of September 2021, the number of students in the case of the minority scholarship has increased, with up to 12 students in place of the previous four students per secondary school. Between 2011-21, a total of 272 students of seven nationalities received a total grant of more than HUF 238 million. Finally, it is worth mentioning that cross-border and joint projects with mother countries are also being carried out with the involvement of nationalities in Hungary, which, of course, further strengthen relations with the mother countries of our nationalities. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the fiscal framework for national minority purposes has increased by 112 percent, indicating that there is a serious development in this area. We would like to continue this in the coming year. Ladies and gentlemen, Among the humanly unpredictable uncertainties ahead of us, the draft budget for next year aims to create predictability and security for our families, our elderly and our communities. We protect our foreign national communities, our churches and our ethnic communities in Hungary. We also protect their values and support their functioning and development in the context of the budget's financial framework. The Christian Democratic People's Party's parliamentary group therefore supports the draft budget for next year and proposes it to be adopted by the other groups. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Fidesz Members, You have been claiming for 12 years that you have saved the Hungarian people again, from this and from that. However, the reality is that they are trying to cover up their own mistakes, their economic policy mistakes, with constant rescue efforts; or they are trying to divert attention from the billions they have stolen. Do you know what you've really saved us from in the last 12 years? From being a calm, growing, just, European country to be our country, we were saved from this. They can play with words, they can manipulate reality, but that still leaves austerity. Let's name the baby. The budget of your government in 2023 is the budget of austerity, the budget of the Orbán package, which takes more money out of the pockets of Hungarian families than ever before, and leaves more than the fidesz oligarchs. Next year's budget proves what the Democratic Coalition knew before the April elections and it is well predicted: if Viktor Orbán remains Prime Minister, there will be unprecedented brutal restrictions. Even though Fidesz denied it then, we were right. [[17.20]] You're gonna tell us again that you're gonna protect us. Do you know what this budget is protecting this country from? The most vulnerable are protected from the chance of ascension; our children are protected from the chance of real and modern education; patients are protected from health care, i.e. healing; businesses are protected from prosperity; Hungarian families are protected from living; pensioners are protected from having to decide whether to buy food or replace their medicines, because they can't afford any of the pensions. Any way you manipulate the public, let's be clear: you have reduced your pension by at least 5-10 percent this year. At the beginning of the year, they gave a 5 percent pension increase, and then there was officially 10 percent inflation, which, of course, is far from real, the 15-20 percent increase experienced by pensioners. That means the average pensioner's wallet is missing at least twice as much money today as you gave at the beginning of the year. And here's the bad news: the planned increase of 3.9 percent in July was long gone by inflation. The weak forint of Fidesz ate the pension raise, licked all ten fingers, and then began to eat the rest of the pension. But let's look at the minimum pension. The sum of 28 500 HUF will not change next year, so it has remained unchanged for 14 years. I know that you and your billionaire oligarchs wouldn't bow down for that kind of money, but please note that in Hungary almost 18,000 people are currently receiving such a large pension. Nearly 30,000 people live on between 28 500 and 50,000 forints, which is also humiliatingly low. This is a scandal in itself, but the low minimum pension also artificially keeps the benefits that are linked to the minimum pension low. These include elderly people's benefits, child care support, care premiums or public health care. So you are not only making cuts on the elderly through weak forints or pensions, but also in a number of other forms. Maybe pensioners wouldn't be in so much trouble right now if you hadn't eliminated the Swiss indexation of pensions. This was the method of calculating pensions for left-wing governments, which not only increased pensions by inflation, but also adapted them to the rise in wages. Well, for once, you can rely on the Gyurcsány government. The pensions were separated from wages 12 years ago, so today the difference between wages and pensions is sky and earth. According to some calculations, you have taken 1 million HUF 200,000 from every Hungarian pensioner in the last 12 years. And now, with such food prices, this money is even more lacking. And it is also very talkative that, while we spent 10 percent of GDP on pensions before 2010, next year you want to spend only 8.3 percent of GDP on this. You know, I don't know if you or the Prime Minister or your ministers are going to go to the grocery store, or if you're going to leave the grocery shopping to the employees, but please do it once in a while, and keep your eyes open, you could really face a heartbreaking reality in the shops. Don't think that the official price of chicken has solved the problems of every Hungarian family and every pensioner in one fell swoop! If you look around the shops, if you dare to talk to people, you will experience reality. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] But the truth, believe me, Congressman. Then perhaps you will see how many desperate-looking people in Hungary in 2022 put the unattainable priced meat or unattainable-priced vegetables back on the shelf. May I remind you that despite the fact that the KSH counterfeits 10 percent inflation to the government, certain foods have now increased by 20, 30, 40 percent. 600 forints a kilo of white bread, for the same amount we get 10 eggs, so we get a liter of sunflower oil and we just want to make one French toast. We've already left 2,000 forints in the store for these three things. If there's anything that's really dangerous for pensioners, then that's it, your weak forint and rising inflation. You are responsible for the weakest forint in Hungarian history. Once again, you are responsible for the weakest forint in Hungarian history. Remember how many times György Matolcsy or any of the employees and managers of the Hungarian National Bank said, I quote: "The central bank does not have an exchange rate goal. Well, now we see the results. If the Hungarian central bank does not have an exchange rate target, it means that it does not protect the value of the forint, and if the Hungarian central bank does not protect the forint, the forint will be devalued. Unfortunately, this can also be such a simple item, which is what we see in practice, and you are responsible for this. However, the weak forint has three real winners: the Hungarian multis, who pay the wages in HUF, so they make the Hungarians work cheaper every year; the Hungarian National Bank, which spends the profits of weakening the forint on itself, so they are, of course, new properties, luxurious carpets and statues, but perhaps only György Matolcsy can give an even more accurate list of what they have bought for our loss; and let us not forget about the third, really big winners of the weak forint, the fidesz entrepreneurs who win the EU applications, because the money they steal every day is worth more and more. So you will benefit very well with the weak forint, and you will be paid for this with the Hungarian families and pensioners. You point to war as a trigger cause, because it doesn't really have much to do with weak forints, there is no other European currency beyond such a weakening as the Hungarian forint. The Polish zloty, the Croatian kuna or the Czech crown, thank you very much, are well, only the Hungarian forint is lying on the ground, thanks to you. Dear Fidesz Members, I think it's time, if you want to save us again, then please do it at last, and not just with your communication babbling, but with real measures at last. If the elderly are just a little bit important to you, you would stop the food price increase, you would accept, for example, the proposals of the Democratic Coalition, and you would reduce the VAT on basic foods to zero by the end of the year, and then you wouldn't be able to raise it back to 5 percent. It's bad enough that shopping is so expensive, there's really no need for even Fidesz to be poking around the register in the pocket of pensioners. DK claims that, as long as prices rise in this way, they should forget that basic food is even taxed. If the elderly are even a little important to you, they would give pensioners a one-time minimum of HUF 100,000, as the Democratic Coalition has also suggested, at least a little reduction in the cost of food, which you have not, by the way, caused. I would also like to remind you of the times that many of my fellow Members have already done today when there was still a euro of 274 forints in 2008. At the time, the current Prime Minister said in opposition that the Prime Minister's exchange was the solution to the forint crisis. If the HUF 274 euro was a crisis, what would you call the EUR 400? And if the exchange of the Prime Minister was the answer to the HUF 274 euro, and they saw the solution in it, then who, and what, do you think, should be replaced with the EUR 400? Well, I don't sell bagcats, in my opinion, the whole government. I know that within minutes you will be referring to the election of the majority of the voters on 3 April. That is true, they just forgot to tell them to prepare the apraja-grandma of all Hungarian families, all pensioners, because after April Viktor Orbán gives them a brutal austerity package. Apparently, it's hard to admit that they weren't telling the truth. It is obviously difficult to admit that their economic policy has failed and that their budget plan for next year has failed, so that I may still be able to save the slow one. But, you know, a legitimate government would admit that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]] [[17 .30]]
u2022-06-22-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-22-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Vice-President of the Cultural Committee of the Parliament, I will address two areas in my speech: one is sport and the other is innovation. Speaking of sports, we all know how XIX works. FINA World Water Championship in Budapest, and I would like to add two thoughts to this. The first is that in just four months, the organizers prepared to host one of the world's largest international sporting events, and this seems to have been an excellent success. So first of all, I congratulate the organizers and, of course, Hungarian athletes, because Kristóf Milák won the World Championship yesterday. So go, Hungarians, go, Hungarian athletes! Sports, as I mentioned, to support competitions and professional tasks. In 2023, maintaining or improving the competitiveness of domestic sport remains a priority. To this end, support for participation at Olympic events will be increased by HUF 900 million, professional and operational support for non-Olympian sports competitions by HUF 224 million, and support for the launch of incentive programmes to improve the situation of replacement coaches, reinforcement and extension of existing ones will increase by HUF 173 million in 2023; compared to this year, this total amount will be around HUF 1.3 billion. The Government of Hungary prioritises the hosting of as many international sporting events as possible. In 2023, the goal remains to further strengthen our role as a sports diplomat with the quality of international sporting events organised in Hungary, to ensure that our competitors gain international experience in the domestic environment. Among other important events are the World Athletic Championship of 2023 with HUF 19 billion, the World Karate Championship of 2023 with HUF 2 billion, the chess club of 2024 with FIDE Congress with HUF 1.4 billion, the Gyulai István Memorial Athletic Hungarian Grand Prix of 2023 with HUF 835 million, the Tour de Hongrie cycling tournament of 2023 with HUF 300 million and the European University Games of 2024 with HUF 132 million. Recognition of sports events, sports activities, sports performances in 2023. The Olympic allowance was calculated in relation to the average salary of the national gross nominal calculated by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, which justifies the increase of HUF 725.6 million compared to this year's budget. The recognition of sports facilities will be covered by a budget reduced by HUF 350 million compared to this year's base, the amount allocated to the 52nd Winter Olympic Prize. Sports development. What are the 16 flagship sports? Table tennis, athletics, wrestling, rowing, cello, kayak canoe, bicycle, boxing, skating, pentathlon, volleyball, sports shooting, tennis, gymnastics, swimming and fencing. The budget provides more than HUF 8.5 billion to support the sport development tasks of the 16 major sports disciplines, HUF 582 million to support the sports development tasks of the 23 catching up sport disciplines, and HUF 140 million to 20 sports under the talent management programme of the emerging sports disciplines. In 2023, the priority is to give increased support to the sports sectors mentioned above, in order to continue the professional work started, maintain the results achieved and ensure a smooth preparation for the 2024 Olympics, based on this year's funding framework. Between 2013 and 2022, the number of projects implemented through state aid under the programme of sport performance development for the priority sports sectors is 966 and the number of ongoing projects is 256. Obviously, the goal here is to close these in the first half of 2023 at the latest. In 2023, the Hungarian Swimming Association will continue to develop a "Every child should learn to swim." A program. This program was launched last year in 20 cities, involving about 12,000 children in kindergarten groups and young children; as I said, the program started in 2022. Sports development. In 2023, 2 billion HUF will be insured to carry out the sport development tasks of the priority sports organisations in rural areas. There are three categories: one of them is sports clubs with at least 14 departments or 1000 certified athletes, and the second category is sports clubs with at least 7 divisions or more than 700 certified athletes, with a grant of HUF 220 million; the third category is that sports organisations with 5 departments and 350 certified athletes can receive grants between HUF 25 and HUF 180 million per year. Development and operation of sports facilities. In 2023 it is also an important objective to ensure an adequate level of economic operation of sport facilities, capacity utilisation and rationalisation of sustainability, as well as the provision of resources for ongoing investments and the implementation of essential improvements. The built and built sports facilities provide a suitable preparation site for our Hungarian athletes to be as successful as possible in sports and world competitions. The use of sports facilities is also ensured by local and local sports organisations, schools and other organisations. As I said, my second topic is innovation. The Hungarian future depends on the innovation of culture and the spread of the culture of innovation. He said recently, a few days ago, Minister János Csák, and I fully agree with this idea. Innovation, culture development. The highest number of R &amp; D workers increased in Hungary between 2010 and 2020: 97.3% compared to the EU average, which is 40.5 percent; this means that the number of R &amp; D researchers in Hungary increased from 31 480 in 2010 to 59 628 in 2020. R &amp; D expenditure relative to GDP increased from 1.1 per cent in 2010 to 1.6 per cent in 2020; the aim is to make this 3 per cent by 2030. Public R &amp; D resources increased nearly two and a half times: from HUF 147 billion in 2010 to HUF 387 billion in 2020. We have also increased the budget of the research institutes of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network more than double in recent years, from HUF 17.5 billion to HUF 40 billion, and the government has also decided on HUF 36.5 billion of development in the research institute network. As a result of increased funding, the wages of researchers working in research institutes increased by an average of 30 percent. In 2023, more than HUF 50 billion has already been allocated to the core part of research, i.e. the budget provides nearly ten times as much funding for this purpose as it did in 2009. Innovation specialty. The National Research, Development and Innovation Office, in short the NRDI Office, provides state support for the R &amp; D and innovation area. The establishment of the NRDI Office and the use of the resources of the NRDI Fund serve Hungary's scientific and economic competitiveness, its effective involvement in the European research space and its economic growth. [[17.40]] This is why the government's most important objective in the field of innovation, as the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy adopted in 2021 sets out that Hungary will be among the top 10 innovators of the EU by 2030, is also used by the NKFI Fund. The primary source of the NRDI Fund for the year is the innovation contribution paid by companies, which will amount to HUF 121 billion in 2023 on the basis of the Ministry of Finance's prognosis, which represents an increase of HUF 29.6 billion compared to the 2022 budget. The research base is HUF 50.3 billion in expenditure in 2023, which represents an increase of HUF 833.6 million compared to the 2022 source. As a result of the new national excellence programme integrated into the research base, the university and doctoral students, post-doctors at the beginning of their career and post-doctoral careers, as well as talented young researchers starting independent research in their years after the beginning of their careers, as well as researchers with already recognised scientific achievements, will be supported in order to implement their promising project ideas. The co-operative doctoral programme launched under the Research Fund in 2020 aims to further increase the number of employees in the field of research and development and innovation, primarily in the fields of MTMI, i.e. mathematics, science, technology and IT, who intend to increase their professional knowledge with the latest scientific research results and are committed to the social and economic exploitation of their knowledge. A special application programme is the mecenatura programme, which helps to encourage the participation of the Hungarian scientific research community in international circulation, to present research results with Hungarian public funding at international scientific conferences, to organise international conferences organised in Hungary, to produce media works that are easily presented and promoted to a wide range of society, and to present scientific professional books in paper and at the same time in open electronic form. Finally, the basic part of the project is HUF 13.4 bn expenditure in 2023, which represents an increase of HUF 7.8 bn compared to this year. The programme launched in 2020 by the national laboratories is a priority government programme aimed at achieving the results of research and development at international level, with the aim of creating focused local hubs that bring together the best, most competent Hungarian actors in the relevant fields, university knowledge bases, businesses, research institutions, and a dynamic environment based on constructive cooperation for coordinated exploration and experimental research. Finally, it is the task of the Hungarian State to help create world-class artists and works reflecting Hungarian reason. I think that by taking two areas away from this sport and innovation and, of course, looking at the details of the draft budget for next year, as a representative of a town with county rights, where sports life is diverse and effective, and research and development itself, innovation is present at university level, I would definitely propose adopting the draft budget for next year. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-22-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group.
u2022-06-22-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to point out in two minutes that the Democratic Coalition rejects all restrictions and any tax increases. The situation that is currently affecting the country is the crime of the Orbán government: the 400 forints, the runaway budget deficit; the Romanian wages are rising at a much higher rate than the wages in Hungary; the public debt is constantly increasing, and the Orbán government is putting this in a nice robe, but is constantly trying to fill the established holes with borrowing. So I think that reality must be said here: here the country has drifted into a very serious livelihood crisis. A lot of people here don't have the money to buy food anymore. Of course, I'm glad that if someone has to pay a little bit of rent and there's a line of how many thousand forints they saved for him, but every day the person who goes to the store spends the multiples of it and buys bread, meat, vegetables, anything. So saving 3 thousand forints on something is at least 3-6 thousand forints every day when you go and buy. A lot of people are suffering from this state of affairs, and the Orbán government must take responsibility for this situation. In Hungary, people will be poor, and this crisis will be very difficult with the economic policy that the Orbán government represents, resolve and change. Indeed, if you have to cancel a Prime Minister at HUF 300 or HUF 270, what do you have to do at HUF 400? Thank you very much.
u2022-06-22-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár, Group of Dialogues.
u2022-06-22-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would particularly like to thank Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State, for having reflected on my comments and, in particular, thank you for your professional opinion and for not being personal. This is rarely the case in this House for professional debates to arise. There is only one thing I would like to argue with the Secretary of State. He said that in recent years there has been much, much better budget planning than in the period before 2010, then much more misfires, much more problems and errors have arisen. Well, I would like to say only three figures for the 2021 budget, because there are already numbers for this. There, GDP growth was projected to be minus 4.8 percent. In fact, the fact was an increase of 7.1 percent, i.e. 12 percentage points. With regard to the general government deficit, a deficit of 2.9 per cent was planned, with a general government deficit of 6.8 per cent, i.e. more than twice the general government deficit. Then in the budget plan, the debt-to-GDP ratio will fall from 72,6 percent to 69,3 percent. What really happened compared to this was that in 2020 the debt-to-GDP ratio was not 72,6 but 79,6 percent, and this fell to 78.2 percent by the end of the year, obviously if we add the outstanding amounts of Eximbank very correctly. So I think that these were very serious misfires. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So maybe it would have been justified at the time of the Covid epidemic to start planning later in order to make more informed numbers. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I overstepped.
u2022-06-22-78	Thank you, Congressman. I would just like to point out that, in order to conduct the professional debate in depth, I allowed the time frame to be exceeded by 1 minute 39 seconds. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Member István Hollik, the KDNP Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2022-06-22-79	Thank you very much. I can't help but notice that, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, there are two journalists present now, and after hearing their words, I think it is important to add that they told the Hungarian people before 2010 that they were independent, objective journalists, so they were informed that they were protecting the mundé of their current boss. In other words, they fooled people even when you said you were objective, independent journalists. [[Zsolt Gréczy: There were no journalists before 2010, but it doesn't matter.]] I think it is important to know this, and this is the way to give your word credibility in a budgetary debate. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]] [[17.50]]
u2022-06-22-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I am now informing Mrs Kálmán Olga that she will have the opportunity to speak for two minutes in the next round of speeches. Mr László Földi, KDNP Group, will now take the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures, just in order to keep extraordinary times as short as possible and to make as little sacrifices as possible. We have learned this during the foreign exchange crisis and the outbreak of the virus, and now the Russian-Ukrainian war and the failed reactions in Brussels and the West give up the lesson. In such external circumstances, the Government submitted a draft central budget for 2023. Dear Parliament, The budget consists of numbers, but behind the numbers are people, families, homes, jobs and public institutions. It is our job to point out in the debate on next year's budget how we can help them in a difficult time. They expect us to live better or at least not worse. They want peace and security, and they don't want to pay the price of a war that they had nothing to do with, and the price of western sanctions that were obviously born dead. For this reason, next year's budget will be a budget for public security and defence. The basics are strong. It now pays off that we have been pursuing a sustainable and cautious fiscal policy for many years, because there is something to build on. The aim is to continue growth next year, and even though the effects of the war slow this down, we still expect a 4.1 percent increase in 2023. This is also based on the fact that, in May this year, the main tax revenues of the budget increased by 23 percent, in addition to tax reductions. While last May 1323 billion forints came in, now 1630 billion forints. The corporate tax received 40 percent more revenue, 50 percent more income from small corporate tax and 17 percent more income from personal income tax. This performance will contribute to maintaining the country's security, the results of recent years, the reduction of overhead costs, family support, the value of pensions and reducing deficits and public debt in an uncertain global economy. I note here that there has been a lot of talk in this House about pensioners in today's debate, and I have to say, for example, that my mother is 94 years old. He's been retired for 36 years, retired in socialism as a postman, and never complained about how much his pension was, never stretched too much, as far as his blanket was concerned, and shopping today, shopping, going to the market, going to the store. And the other important thing is that I'm a country representative in ten settlements, and I go to retirement clubs, I go to the market regularly, at least once a week, but there are times when twice, I go shopping, I meet a lot of people, and there are no big complaints. Obviously, some people get stuck here and there, they get stuck, but they don't. If I'm walking down the street from Cegléd, I'm going to go to Tesco, and the parking lot is full Monday to Sunday night. If I go in front of Penny, it's full, I go in front of Lidl, it's full, and these big shops, especially Lidl, and I can tell you the rest, it's not a shopping mall for big-time people. Of course, there have always been and there will be problems and problems, but the government is also trying to address these problems in the next year's budget. I think I had to tell you this in any way, because the retirement clubs thank you, they're fine. And these are rural retirement clubs, where people who are pensioners, PAC pensioners, some intellectuals, say, teachers, teachers, pensioners, but usually rural, rural people, and thank you, they feel good, they are fine, they are always thanking you for what they get. So I do not share the opposition opinion that we do not think about pensioners here, because we think about pensioners every year. I can mention the one-time pension payment of 80,000 HUF last year, the refund and resetting of the 13th month's pension, this year's pension increase, which is 3.9 percent from July, but going backwards from January this year. So it is natural that when there are difficulties in the country, it affects all people a little bit, it is natural, but there is no problem as much as my opposition fellow Members have brought up in the matter of pensioners. I consider it very important, as I mentioned, the Rezségvédelmi Fund, which contains HUF 670 billion, and the HUF 842 billion Hungarian Defence Fund, which we upload with resources from fair public burdens. I must point out that we are saving ourselves, that is to say, on the state, and I think that, regardless of party standing, this will trigger the consent of all citizens. Secondly, this is also a natural tax on the rich representatives of the eight sectors that profit from the corona virus epidemic and the Russian-Ukrainian war. Dear House, The three main cornerstones of next year's budget are the 3.5 percent deficit, the 73.8 percent government debt ratio and the 5.2 percent inflation indicated by the Hungarian National Bank. Many European countries envy these numbers, I am convinced. In Hungary the following year, i.e. in 2023, there will be 730 billion HUF more for retirement. Now, if you'll just think about what a big, big raise that is. 200 billion forints more for education, 100 billion forints more for health care and 450 billion forints more for families. The latter, the degree of family support, I am convinced that it is a European record. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned at the beginning that I am a country representative, and there are ten settlements in the constituency, three cities and seven villages. I would like to highlight the, a little bit here, because the Hungarian village programme has provided huge opportunities in these seven villages, and I am not talking about hundreds of millions and billions, about HUF 15-20-30-40 million improvements: repairing medical homes, repairing medical clinics, asphalting roads, construction of drainage ditches, and countless smaller developments that promote the ability of those living in these villages, and young people do not leave the villages. In several settlements, I found that 6-8-10 years ago there were plenty of empty houses in the villages. Today in the villages, at least in these seven villages, which I know directly, there is no family house for sale. And it's actually thanks to the village CSOK, because a lot of people have taken advantage of this opportunity, and they're taking advantage of it, which is a token of the survival of the villages. Another token is that there were very serious road renovations and road improvements in our area as well. The construction of M4 was a key issue, and together with the construction of M4 the area's ability to attract capital has also increased, and this will be shown primarily in the local tax revenue of the coming years, and there will be greater opportunities for the development of settlements. [[18.00]] What I would also like to mention, as a teacher and former school principal, was of particular importance to the development of sports facilities in the past. A lot of sports facilities in the Cegléd area have been renewed, renovated or completely new, and I think that we have reached a level that will now have to be filled with content, bringing as many children into these institutions as possible so that more people can play sports. The key issue is the promotion and development of mass sports, the solution of daily physical education classes in full, and the development of replacement education is also very important. The development of sport is not a self-serving event. On the one hand, there is a key role in the preservation of health, and on the other hand, sport plays a very important role in the marketing of a settlement, because there is no nuclear power plant, no oil refinery along the Danube, and so on, on the map of the country, but sports can also be added to the map of the country. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that next year's budget contains all the elements that are important for protecting families, pensioners, important for reducing the costs, important for other security in the country. As a KDNP Member, I respectfully propose to this House the adoption of the budget for next year, and that is what I ask of my fellow Members. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-22-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to create a good central budget proposal, it is essential that the government, which makes the proposal, clearly sees the challenges facing the country and is well aware of the environment that has an impact on the country's situation. This environment is, unfortunately, very stepdaughter at the moment. In recent years critical periods have followed each other. After the difficulties caused by migration, we had to deal with the corona virus epidemic, and now we find ourselves in the vicinity of a war zone. There is a prolonged war, a wave of refugees, false news, information warfare, harsh political sanctions, energy crisis, war inflation, and there are still terms that we shouldn't know, but they have become part of our daily lives. These are the effects the consequences of which need to be assessed as best as possible. In thought, processes that are already drawn from the present circumstances should be carried out and the possibilities that may still emerge should be taken into account. You can see that the war in our neighborhood is going on. Although Brussels' sanctions policy makes the situation of Russia which started the war more difficult, unfortunately there is a great price to pay for Europe and for our country. Special emphasis should be placed on maintaining the security of our energy supply, reducing price increases and protecting and improving the living conditions of Hungarians. I think that in this debate, too, we should stress that, despite the fact that the war is going on, we have the greatest interest in peace and the early end of the war. It would require immediate surrender of arms and the immediate launch of peace negotiations, which is the only way in which economic consolidation can be expected to start as soon as possible. By transporting weapons, sending soldiers to war in this situation, we would not serve peace, but we ourselves would be directly involved in the conflict. We want peace, and we will do everything for it. Hopefully, we will find more and more allies in this, but it is a long process, so we will be forced to accept our budget next year in the light of the effects of a prolonged war. The proposal for Hungary's central budget for 2023 is the budget for defence and security, which, taking into account the effects of the tense and uncertain international environment that I outlined briefly, clearly focuses on protecting our country and people's livelihoods, supporting families and pensioners raising children, and preserving the results of the reduction of the rent. The primary objective is the security of Hungarian people, whether it is physical or material security or the preservation of trust in the future. The 13th month's pension remains and the rate of inflation increases. Family benefits and family tax benefits remain. With the adoption of the proposal, more money can be spent on supporting families with children by nearly HUF 450 billion compared to this year. Income tax benefits for people under the age of 25 remain. Before 2020, we managed to create strong economic funds in our country, which the difficult years of the Crown Virus crisis could not rip so hard that they would not allow the government to provide strong protection for these areas. National governance has taken a turn in Hungary that has put the economy on a growth path, and this growth has been preserved despite the crisis caused by the epidemic. In 2021, the growth of the Hungarian economy reached a record and is one of the most dynamically growing across Europe. However, it is clear that the current situation is extraordinary, so we also need extraordinary measures to preserve as much of the growth potential that is still available and to provide the fullest possible protection for the Hungarian people. The government's position is consistent, the price of war must not be paid by the Hungarian people. This is what the Rezségvédelmi Fund serves, which I would just like to say is that its budget of HUF 670 billion may be enough to protect the results of the reduction of the overhead. It does not force the players in the sectors affected by the extra-profit tax into a situation in which they should give up their full profits. Hopefully, in an economic environment that is uplifting as soon as possible after the war crisis is over, they will be able to realise many of their profits that they have just let go. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to turn to the defence sector budget, which, as in previous years, provides a stable basis for the country's military defence tasks, and also allows for a significant step in the field of military development. A total of more than HUF 1400 billion is available for these tasks in 2023, which represents more than 40 percent increase compared to this year's expenditure. This is why, instead of the previous target date of 2024, we will be able to fulfil our commitment to NATO next year to increase our defence spending to 2 percent of our annual GDP. The HUF 1400 billion framework consists of two large parts. One is the HUF 840 billion Hungarian Defence Fund dedicated to the elements of the military development programme. This could lead to the development of our air force and our terrestrial capabilities, as well as the necessary development of military infrastructure. The aim is for the Hungarian Defence Forces to become the decisive force of the region in the medium term. The main objective is the development of soldiers' equipment, tools and the wider involvement of the domestic defence industry in the development process. The second part represents the chapter on appropriations entered in the chapter of the Ministry of Defence. In this context, it can be said that staff expenditure increases by almost 10 percent and operating expenditure by more than 50 percent compared to this year's expenditure, among the stable appropriations to ensure the full fulfilment of the basic tasks of the defence. This will cover the development of certain financial benefits for staff, the implementation of wage developments as defined in previous government measures and the increase of the number of defences by 1250, a significant part of which can be achieved by the Hungarian Defence Organisations. [[18.10]] The chapter also prioritises maintaining our international military engagement and creating the necessary financial background. The budget proposal also seeks to preserve the financial basis for defence programmes. There will be money for the training of officers and junior officers, and for the development of basic training and education skills, as well as the recruitment system. There will be sufficient resources for the development of the voluntary reserve system, for the continuation of the cadet-Honvéd programme in the framework of patriotic defence education, for military secondary schools and for the preservation of the Veteran program. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence for 2023 includes funding for sport tasks as a result of the current change in responsibilities and competences. The EUR 140 billion framework represents an increase of nearly 50 percent, as my fellow Member has just said in front of me. I would also like to say a few words about the subject of law enforcement. Obviously, changes in tasks and competences can also be seen in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Interior. I would just like to mention a few words about the budgetary resources necessary for the proper performance of the police tasks. Looking at the appropriations, it is clear that the important objective of next year's budget is to ensure, as far as possible, the financial appreciation of law enforcement workers. In 2023, it will be possible to cover the implementation of all previously launched career programmes. The police have a surplus of HUF 25 billion, TEK 2 billion, punishment and disaster protection on personal allowances of around HUF 7-7 billion. In addition, it can be concluded that the most important functions for maintaining the country's order and security are adequately reflected in the home affairs budget for 2023. All appropriations which can contribute to strengthening public security, strengthening protection against international and domestic terro-rism, developing disaster protection, improving the detection efficiency of low-value crime and strengthening the enforcement of penalties are sufficiently and stable. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it can be concluded that we have a proposal that will not lose sight of the challenges facing the country in the coming years. In 2023, we will have a budget that takes into account the expected circumstances in which the Hungarian people live. It strives to provide the opportunities that we can go forward despite crises, and even to have at least the same opportunities in later years. Once again, I would like to stress that it is clear to all reasonable people that budget planning is particularly difficult in such a volatile and critical environment. In addition, it can be said that the protection of Hungarian people and Hungarian families is given sufficient emphasis in the proposal before us, as are the areas of defence and police. Thank you very much, Mr President, Secretary of State and fellow Members, for your attention. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches again. I give the floor to Congresswoman Olga Kálmán, DK Group.
u2022-06-22-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I've been thinking for weeks now why they've been trying to make people think that we're gonna pay any kind of extra taxes, special taxes, profit taxes, that kind of tax, that we're not gonna pay. When you say that the various food chains produced extra profit, whose money is that? Who paid for the ever-expensive food at the store? Us. And if this food chain has a surplus, isn't that our money? Are we not going to pay for the expensive food in the same way? Aren't pensioners the same as families? I'm telling you, every conversation they have, every misinformation they have, the constant manipulation of the public, is about not believing in our own eyes. Why should we not believe that 10 percent inflation means 40 percent more expensive food than certain food products? Shouldn't we believe it's more expensive than it was last year or a month or two ago? Should we believe you? Why? Well, because they spend too much money manipulating reality in this form. I would very much like to finally get an answer to why you do not support the Democratic Coalition's proposal for a resolution. Why not reduce the VAT on basic foods to zero percent? Why don't you give a one-time allowance of HUF 100,000 to small children's families, to those who live in small pensions, why don't you give a rent of HUF 1000, valid for three months, for public transport, why don't you reduce the excise duty on fuel? Why? Is it because DK asked for it? I'd be happy to tell you where István Hollik worked earlier. I don't have any memories of him. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-22-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear colleague Kálmán Olga, I'll send you my résumé. As to your claim to reduce VAT, we cannot forget that it was your boss who promised to cut VAT and then won the elections and not reduced VAT, but raised VAT. Nor can we ignore the fact that you are the government's proposals for VAT reduction that we had to vote on here in this House in terms of basic food, since VAT is no longer 27 per cent, but 5 per cent, you voted, and you have not voted in any case. My third thought: it has been said many times, but Kálmán Olga may not have sat here at the time, that the government has examined in many cases the impact of VAT reductions. And although we have made the VAT cuts, and the government has repeatedly said that these are not closed cases, it is constantly examining where more VAT cuts can be made, but it is certain that the VAT reductions have never been followed by a fall in food prices, it has always been swallowed up by traders. It's a matter of fact. So if you expect to lower the prices by reducing the VAT, you're looking in the wrong place, or if you promise that to the citizens, you're fooling them again. There are so many brief reflections on what the Congresswoman has said. Turning to the budget, I would basically like to make four statements on the budget, and, if I may, I would like to express this. My first statement, which has been made many times, but I do not think that it can be stressed enough that Mihály Varga, the State Secretary and the State Secretary, had to set up the budget in an extremely difficult situation. After all, we have barely recovered from the economic crisis caused by Covid, and a war has already erupted in our neighbourhood, which has resulted in a runaway war inflation, and this war has only exacerbated the energy crisis in Europe that is already present. So, in an extremely difficult situation, environment, and in an uncertain environment, I think it is a great merit that both the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office say that, nevertheless, the basic figures of the budget can also be considered justified in this uncertain situation. This is very important. And what is also important is that the practice introduced by civil-Christian-democratic governments to create it in the middle of the year, to debate it, and to vote on next year's budget, because that is the time for economic actors and people to prepare for next year. [[18.20]] I also think that it is right in such an uncertain environment that the risk of uncertainty about the future is actually run by the government, and that is correct. Because if we were to follow the former socialist practice and adopt the budget at the end of the year, in the last days, then in fact the risks associated with it should be run by businesses, the Hungarian people. The fact that this risk is taken on by the government with the previous adoption of the budget, I think that this is precisely right at such a difficult time. So my first statement is that the situation is indeed very, very difficult, but nevertheless, the budget before us is well founded, as it was in previous years. My second statement is that there is a difficult situation, there is an economic crisis all over Europe, and yet this budget is also definitely breaking off with the left-wing policy that tackles the crisis with austerity and continues the civil tradition of not having people pay the price of any crisis. It is important to emphasise this because Hungarian people are not used to it. Because any crisis before 2010, the government reaction was that we were in a difficult situation, so, dear Hungarian citizen, reach into your pocket, too, or if you don't touch it, Ferenc Gyurcsány will reach into it and get the money out of it. This is what Hungarians do during the Bokros package and during the restrictions of Gyurcsány. While Kálmán Olga was talking about the measures here, it was you who took away the 13th month pension, it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who took a month's wages from all state employees. It was you who reduced the duration of the loan, squandered the family tax allowance, suspended all support for home creation, paid interest, and it was you who increased the cost of the rent several times, despite the fact that Ildikó Lendvai promised that there would be no gas price increase. On the other hand, although we are in a difficult situation right now, the Hungarian government keeps to the principle that the price of war cannot be paid to Hungarian people. Therefore, my third statement about the budget is that it is able to preserve all government programmes for which we have fought with the Hungarian people in the last 12 years. So the left took away the 13th month pension, and despite the difficult situation, we returned it, the 13th month pension can remain part of the 2023 budget, and, as the government has promised, pension increases will remain after inflation. While the left has reduced, in fact abolished family support, family support remains in the 2023 budget. Compared to 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government spends nearly three and a half times more HUF 2290 billion on supporting Hungarian families in 2023. While left-wing governments have increased their overhead prices to a multiple, we continue to insist on reducing the costs, and this is particularly a great achievement in terms of energy prices in Europe, because we can see that there are countries in Europe where energy prices have increased tenfold compared to two or three years ago. You can say that in these countries the salary is higher, but not so much. So citizens, citizens living there in Stockholm can sense it, even though they make more money than we do. My fourth statement on the budget is that Minister János Csák has repeatedly talked about how important it is for a country to have a future. In English: be able to define its own goals, and if it has defined its own goals, then take measures to prepare the country in advance to deal with the difficult issues and challenges it faces. My statement is that the budget for 2023 strengthens Hungary's potential for the future. Of course, this requires basics; I would like to say a few things that I think can be seen on this side of the horseshoe, but unfortunately not on the other side. For example, man can only strengthen the future of a country if he thinks and has a purpose in a nation. At a time when, for example, Ferenc Gyurcsány's party voted for the European United States in 2019 quite clearly, with a declaration, and is thinking in an imperial Europe, this may not be so obvious. And we have determined where we want to go. So Hungary has concrete goals, and the Prime Minister has repeatedly said where we would like to go by 2030. We want Hungary to be part of the five European countries where it is best to live, live and work. These must be the points of reference that we may be able to sum up by referring to the Hungarian national interest, to which we can otherwise relate to the change in our environment, and from this perspective we can respond to the challenges ahead, whether it is an energy crisis or a war. I think that, in terms of future capacity, it should be mentioned here that not only long-term processes should be monitored, but also short-term ones. I think that it is a very good and correct government recognition that, when the whole of Europe is hit by an energy crisis, the Hungarian government insists on protecting Hungarian people and the reduction of the rent, which is why the Rezsivédelmi Fund is included in the budget for 2023. It is also an important recognition that if there is a war, then there is a need to spend on the development of forces, which my fellow Members have spoken about. So the claim is that Hungary's potential for the future will be strengthened. I think that it can be seen from the budget of 2023 that the civilian Christian Democratic Government believes that Hungary's future capacity is based on at least three pillars: work, home and family. Therefore, all our previous policies were based on the need to create jobs and eliminate the unemployment created by the left. This is where we see the results: we reduced unemployment from 11.7 percent to 3.6 percent, and we raised employment from 56.4 percent to 74 percent. Hungary's potential for future is also guaranteed by national identity, so that we can preserve our own national identity. It is therefore important that cultural support is included in the 2023 budget, and although the situation is difficult, there is also progress in this area. The third pillar is the family, because if people have jobs, they are committed to their country, and they are starting a family in order to pass on what they have received to their offspring. Therefore, we are committed to helping Hungarian families. Speaking of future skills, a few words about this in a different context. The left-wing accusation is that Hungary has been made by the Fidesz-KDNP government into a total-reliant plant. On the one hand, we have two things to say about this saying on the left. One is that I wish that had been the case under left-wing governments. But it wasn't a assembly plant at the time, it wasn't a job at the time. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Only the Mercedes!]] The people were lining up for jobs, Mr. Congressman Gréczy, there was no work. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Mercedes!]] Employers were then able to choose, and workers were at the mercy of employers. [[18.30]] Today, the situation is that because there is a shortage of workers, this is reversed. Today, employers are lining up for a well-employed worker. [[Zsolt Gréczy: They went abroad!]] So, first, we created the basis for a work-based economy by attracting important investments and multinationals producing here with a good economic environment. I would like to say to you that what you are saying is not even true from the point of view that if you look at the average wage for jobs newly created in the last three to four years, you can see that this is now more than one and a half times the average national wage. This shows that these are probably already higher value added jobs. In English: they don't bring assembly plants here anymore, representative, but developer, research developer, innovation centers. I think we need to go this way. It should also be said that, if we are talking about research and development, Hungary's share of R &amp; D workers has increased by 97.3% between 2010 and 20, compared to the EU average, which is only 40.5 percent. This means that the number of researchers and developers was 31 480 in 2010 and nearly 60 000 in 2020. The amount of R &amp; D resources increased more than double, with an amount of HUF 310 billion in 2010 and already increased to HUF 771 billion in 2020. As a result of increased funding, on average, the wages of research institutions increased by 30 percent. The most important objective of the Fidesz-KDNP government in the field of innovation is to make Hungary one of the top ten innovators in the EU by 2030. For this reason, the National Research, Development and Innovation Office calculates HUF 121.5 billion for its resources in 2023, which represents a surplus of HUF 30 billion compared to this year's budget. My fellow Members have spoken about the development of forces, but I think that this year is perhaps worth stressing that it is perhaps the most sobering recognition of this year, not only in Hungary, but also in Central Europe and all of Europe, that the physical security of Hungary and Europe is not self-evident and is not free. As Ronald Reagan said, freedom is always no more than a generation away from extinction, it has become a physical reality here today, so for our freedom, for our freedom, every generation must fight, so do we. For this reason, it is important that the government has established the Defence Fund, which is also included in the budget of 23, which amounts to HUF 842 billion, and the total amount of defence expenditure reaches 2 percent of GDP. So, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, Hungary will be able to address the difficulties and challenges of 2023 with this budget, not by going back to the classic recipe for left-wing crisis management, not by putting extra burdens on the shoulders of the people, but instead by preserving the results of the last 12 years, family support, the value of pensions and the reduction of the rent, so it does not undermine people, instead it asks multinational companies and giant companies that are extra profit in the war situation to contribute to preserving the energy and physical security of Hungarian people. That is why we can say that budget 23 is a budget for public security and defence. In recent cycles, Fidesz-KDNP has always demonstrated that it has put a realistic and credible budget on the table. The budget for 2023 is similar. Our aim is to maintain the country's financial stability and balance, with a deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 3.5 per cent in 2023, and to reduce public debt to 73.8 per cent. I therefore urge everyone, the representatives in the opposite benches, to put aside party political considerations in this way now in times of war and to support this budget, because it is in the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-22-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government, and Minister Mihály Varga and his team, had to face unprecedented challenges when drawing up the budget for 2023 submitted to this House. The starting points for these externalities are known to everyone: the global crisis of the corona virus, the war that has been going on in our neighbourhood for almost four months, global devastating war inflation, and Europe is increasingly losing sight and focus in global competition. In this environment which is not enviable, Hungary must carry out a budget in the years ahead that protects all the results that Hungary's right-wing government and the Hungarian people have been fighting shoulder to shoulder for 12 years. It cannot be emphasized enough: the most important goal of the government is to keep the country out of the war and not to let the Hungarians pay the price of the war. Next year's budget is sound, and it finances everything in order to keep the growth of the Hungarian economy at the forefront, but this can obviously be slowed down by a prolonged war. Our main objective is to maintain the reduction of the costs and to create development resources for defence through the Defence Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft budget for next year will ensure that public finances will return to the pre-popular path in the coming years, as the deficit and public debt will also fall in 2023. The validity of the two-year RSF may not need to be explained. In any case, the government wants to maintain the reduction of the costs, the Retirement Fund must serve to ensure that energy supply, whether gas or electricity, is secure and cheap. A very serious reserve is needed to protect the results of the reduction. With this measure, 2300 billion forints remained in the last ten years. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families are currently paying the most favourable fees in the European Union, and the right-wing government wants to ensure that people have affordable and safe access to energy in the future. The government, the Ministry of Finance and the central bank are working to curb inflation as much as possible. The countries that are richer than us are currently struggling with war inflation, but it is a pleasure that real wages have increased in Hungary in the first quarter of this year, so gross wages have undoubtedly increased to a much higher extent than high inflation. That gives me hope. Dear Parliament, With next year's draft budget, we are essentially trying to maintain all the results that the country has achieved together over the past decade. Would the amount to be spent next year on supporting Hungarian families and businesses? No. [[18.40]] Would taxes on wages and businesses increase? Well, that's not it. Are measures such as family tax incentives, the gender-freeness of young people under 25 years old, the CSOK and the home-building programme, or the 13th month pension lost? Obviously not. Measures that started to serve in peacetime, to increase Hungarian families, people and businesses can be considered long-term, and all of their maintenance will be ensured in the budget of next year. Of course, as a representative of the 35 settlements of South Feyér, I cannot leave without a word with rural development and the continuation of the Hungarian village programme, which has become one of its flagships. We have been able to greatly improve the living conditions of more than 80,000 inhabitants of South Feejér as a result of working together. For this support, the Government of Hungary, as well as the Commissioner and his team, Alpár Gyopáros, who announced the Hungarian village programme, should be thanked and appreciated separately. In the past years, we have managed to carve down a great deal of the disadvantage of my area, which seemed insurmountable, in the past years, a series of nursery, kindergartens, schools, roads, medical clinics, service apartments, sidewalks, bicycle roads, sports facilities and community spaces have been built or renewed. In my area there was almost a halt to population loss, an unprecedented development started in South Feher, and, most importantly, the continuation of work is also ensured in the next year's budget. Returning to the national horizon, the developments launched by businesses can continue, the planned foreign and domestic investments can be realised, and we can continue to provide support for job creation and investment. We maintain that we associate extremely high Member States' co-financing with rural development grants, historically strengthening the rural Hungary, including infrastructure linking villages, civil communities, farmers, businesses, municipalities and municipalities. Although the left and the media have been listening to him for years, the facts remain facts, the performance of the Hungarian economy is strengthened. Employment is at its peak. There is less tax avoidance than ever before, and despite constantly decreasing taxes, tax revenue is higher every year, including in next year's budget. In May, for example, in addition to tax reductions, the main tax revenues of the budget increased significantly: 40 corporate taxes, 50 corporate taxes, 17 percent of personal income tax revenues. This performance provides the basis for maintaining the country's security, the results of recent years, the reduction of the rent, family support, the value of pensions, while further reducing deficit and public debt in an uncertain global economy. While the European Commission seems to be doing everything to prevent our country from getting access to the development resources it receives, and recently destroying the economic positions of the European Community by incomprehensible measures, the government, representing Hungarian interests, is discussing both the Restoration Fund and the seven-year EU budget. We hope to reach an agreement as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, The extraordinary global economy and security situation requires extraordinary measures to protect Hungarian families. A rethinking common burden, a responsible and active Hungarian government can have no other purpose than to ensure the protection of families, pensions, businesses and employment. In this spirit, a draft budget for next year before this House was prepared. Please support the Government's efforts with the adoption of the draft budget and the suppression of war inflation by working for peace as soon as possible here at home and abroad. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-22-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group.
u2022-06-22-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to briefly reflect on a few things. Here it is often said that in 2010 the majority in the last eight years gave up the country in such a bad condition. Orbán thanked the government before 2010 in an official speech for handing over the country in consolidated states. Then why did you thank me if these relationships were so gross? The other is that there has been talk about families, having children, and how important this is. I agree deeply on this, and I would just like to point out that, once again, I would like to refer back to the fact that in the worst year of the Gyurcsány government, more children were born than in the best year of the Orbán government. It's a statistical fact. [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] So who did this or who really helped the families? It was said as an attack that European united states. When the European Union decides to purchase a joint vaccine, it is also a step towards the European United States. When a common financial fund for economic crisis management is established, it is also a step towards the European United States. Of course, the nation state and the Hungarian tricolor and the country and the Hymn, the Democratic Coalition, agree deeply on this, but if we need these subsidies, then we must make sacrifices. And finally, some data, because it is always said how bad it was during the Gyurcsány government. Before 2002, there was a government, the Orbán government. I'll give you some data on how much it has grown during the Gyurcsány government and what is known during the Orbán government. Personal income tax and contributions paid by employees as a percentage of gross earnings: Orbán government 38 percent, Gyurcsány government 31 percent. State operating expenditure as a percentage of total expenditure: Orbán government 15%, Gyurcsány government 12% said so. I'll give you another data right away. Amounts spent on pension provision: Orbán government, 2001: 1300 billion HUF, Gyurcsány government: 3000 billion HUF. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So the country is still evolving, so it's worth taking note of. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-22-92	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-22-93	Although I find the debate about the assessment of the Gyurcsány era somewhat uncool, as the Hungarian voters have given a rather clear answer about it, and since then they have repeatedly expressed their views on your boss, but if you have come with numbers, let me give you only two numbers too! [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] In 2002, when you took over the possibility of government, the minimum wage was 50,000 forints; in 2010, when we said goodbye to you, 73 500 forints. They were able to raise 23 500 forints in eight years at the minimum wage, with the period 2002-2008 being the last five to six years in the European economy that could really be called happy times of peace, and marked by huge economic growth, since then there has been no such thing. [[Zsolt Gréczy: after 2010.]] Nevertheless, you were able to raise by 23 500 forints. What's the minimum wage today? 200,000 forints, 73 500 forints. That's the difference. Let me give you another number. How much did the Gyurcsány government spend on family support or family tax incentives in the last year? Zero, that's because you guys cut it off. This is how you supported the Hungarian families at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zsolt Gréczy: Obviously there was no family allowance. One sentence wasn't true!]]
u2022-06-22-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Dr. István Simicskó, Head of Group, has indicated that the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is handing over the remaining timeframe to the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance during the general debate; Mr. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Stojka, Fidesz Group. [[18.50]]
u2022-06-22-95	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The feeling of one's opinion on DK is that the budget drawn up by the governments before 2010 has been given an opinion. You might even understand your critical comments in this regard, but let's look at the present and the 23rd budget. In view of this, we can clearly say that this is for the protection of Hungarian families, but it must also be pointed out that, in addition to the protection of families, it is important to preserve the results of the last 12 years. Due to prolonged war and sanctions in Brussels, there is significant price increases throughout Europe, energy prices are skyrocketing. Our most important task now is to ensure the country's energy supply and the protection of the cost reduction while safeguarding Hungary's peace and security. The government also protects the country's security, the reduction of the costs, jobs, pensions, families and the development of forces to strengthen the security of our country. The budget, as has been said several times today, is a budget for public security and defence, but also a budget for protecting our achievements so far. To understand the results, we need to see where we started. Before 2010, left-wing social policy has always been able to think only about aid for citizens with a more difficult fate. They didn't give jobs or dignity, but they didn't give benefits to the unemployed. After 2002, the interest-supported loans were abolished, the family home creation was made impossible, which led the Hungarian families towards foreign exchange lending, and led them into a debt trap. One of the most serious inheritances was a high stock of retail foreign exchange loans and, as a result, an increasing number of crooked credentials. If you look at the social policy part or social measures, in 2007 the standard for one groom in nursing homes was reduced by HUF 30 000 per year. The reduction was nearly 100,000 forints in residential institutions providing a higher level of care. During their steering, the price of electricity doubled and the price of gas tripled. After that, it may not be excessive if we say that, in an unprecedented way, it was under the governance of Fidesz-KDNP that, in the new year, we heard on the radio that electricity prices and district heating are rising, but that energy prices are falling, so that economic indicators have shown improvements in all areas. When we talk about combating poverty, it is not enough to deal with it alone, but it can be effectively and effectively managed by economic measures. Our social policy is about people who can and want to make a living from work, because when there's work, there's everything. That is the basic sentence of a work-based society. Over the last ten years, one million new jobs have been created, including the employment of Roma by 50 percent. The minimum wage during left-wing governance was HUF 71 500 in 2009 and the guaranteed minimum wage was HUF 87 thousand; currently 200,000 and the guaranteed minimum wage is HUF 260 thousand. The budget for 2023 is also a budget for preserving and continuing the results achieved. In 2023 we expect a 4.1 percent increase in the economy. The 13th month pension is guaranteed, and even further increases are expected to be made to the extent of inflation. Tax benefits from the family tax system have been secured, and family policy spending will be increased by nearly HUF 450 billion in total by the government, which will increase to HUF 3225 billion in total. Next year, the amount of support for children's meals will continue to increase. Almost HUF 100 billion is already available for this purpose in 2023. The budget will provide more than HUF 490 billion for the continuation of the home creation programme next year. Compared to 2010, the government increased the amount of housing subsidies by almost 3.5 times. The free textbook supply has become fully available; more than HUF 13 billion will be spent by the government next year. Since 2010, we have seen tangible results in terms of creating opportunities and catching up. It was the Fidesz-KDNP administration that institutionalised the measures that were partly implemented using EU funds. There are currently 107 children's houses with domestic budget support, and this year 41 will be re-entered into the domestic care system as part of the financing of domestic care. In the future, we plan to develop 50 children's homes in the period of 21-27. This is close to 200, with a safe start, where we will be able to achieve the possibility of early development of children. 183 schools continue to operate with domestic budget support. Schools help on average 5,500 children each year to reduce early school leaving and encourage further education. Since 2012, we have established a performance-based scholarship system called Travelling. Ten thousand kids get scholarships a year. As a result, the number of disadvantaged people with secondary education has increased significantly today. The budget for the scholarship programme increased by more than HUF 150 million compared to the previous year's publication. 2 billion HUF 641.8 million is available in the 2023 budget. Dear Parliament, Work has a future in Hungary, which can also help in difficult times. I call on my fellow Members to support the budget for the year 23, in which the resources for creating opportunities and catching up are available. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-22-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Not taking advantage of the patience of my fellow Members and thanking Mr President once again for the opportunity to speak in the debate on the budget for next year, I would like to briefly describe the foreign and external economic aspects and give a little insight into them. I would like to say that the target system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is divided into tripartite, foreign policy, foreign economic and national policy areas, which is why this triunity is reflected in the budget of the portfolio. It is a classic diplomatic task to operate the network of foreign representations, to provide Hungary's political and economic representation, and to protect Hungarian citizens consularly. In 2023, the Ministry plans to open new delegations in the sub-Saharan region and the expansion of the consular service network continues. More consulates start operating partly independently and partly under the authority of other foreign representations. The operation of the foreign representation network will amount to HUF 103 billion in 2023, which, in terms of inflation and exchange rate changes, is roughly the same as in real terms. As far as the external economy is concerned, this is based on two pillars: export development and investment promotion. The Ministry helps to increase Hungarian exports through tied aid loans, trade development and export financing, and supports the international competitiveness of Hungarian large, small and medium-sized enterprises. The main target countries for tied aid loans are expected to be Laos, Vietnam and Mongolia in 2023. As a result of the Eastern opening policy, every year, the size of investments from Asia sets records. In this respect, particular attention should be paid to South Korea, China, Japan and India, but project-based cooperation with other actors in the region should not be neglected. Support from the investment promotion target plays a key role in the realization of large investments in Hungary, making it an important tool for job creation and technology transfer. [[19.00]] For this purpose, no less than HUF 130 billion will be available next year. For years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has been helping to improve the living conditions of Hungarians living in neighbouring countries with economic and infrastructure development programmes and thus to stay in their homeland. Cross-border investment and development will increase the competitiveness of border regions and the economic sustainability of Hungarian populated areas. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The previous economic development programmes will continue in 2023 in all cross-border areas. In addition to the already proven subsidies for agricultural, business development, residential and land purchase, the development of Hungarian exports will also have an increasing role in this context by encouraging the beneficiaries to favour the products of Hungarian producers and traders. The cornerstone of Hungary's migration policy is not bringing migrants into Europe, but taking help to where it is most needed. This framework also includes the Hungarian Helps, which is now part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade as a result of the delegation of functions between the Ministries. The educational, humanitarian and reconstruction projects of Hungary Helps not only serve to help, stay in the homeland, remain in religious, cultural and economic sense, but also to draw the international community's attention to the fact and scale of Christian persecution in crisis zones, so that other governments can be involved in humanitarian and savior work that requires urgent and decisive action. With a calm heart it can be said that Hungary Helps is now a successful and internationally well-known Hungarian brand, as is the Stipendium Hungaricum with a somewhat longer history. In addition, not only students who can learn in Hungary thanks to the programme, but also rural universities supported through it, benefit from the Stipendium Hungaricum Excellence Scholarships. Higher education institutions receive scholarships, cover training costs, housing support and health insurance. At the end of March, the government decided to establish a special sub-programme under the name "Students at Risk" for Ukrainian-Ukrainian students who were forced to flee because of the Russian-Ukrainian war and for Ukrainian higher education students who are nationals of other Stipendium Hungaricum partner countries. For this purpose, 2.3 HUF 3.9 billion is available this year, starting next year, which allows the number of students who receive scholarships to increase from 15 to 16 thousand, i.e. to continue their studies in Hungary. The partner of Stipendium Hungaricum is the Diaspora Scholarship Programme, for which young people with Hungarian roots can apply, in accordance with the national policy objectives of Hungary. Finally, fellow Members, allow me to briefly mention two other matters which, in terms of volume, are less pronounced in the Ministry's budget, but I believe that they deserve special attention. First of all, it should be noted that the Hungarian V4 Presidency will end next week, but the government coordination of cooperation in Central Europe and Visegrád will remain an important task of the Ministry in 2023. On the other hand, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary has been giving priority to one of the major industries of the future, the space industry, and considers the creation of Hungarian space capacity as a priority, i.e. the preparation of the Hungarian economy, so that it can become more involved in large international businesses. As a result of this consistent work, Hungarian astronauts are expected to enter the international space station in 2024. The selection process has already started and will continue in 2023. For industrial development directly linked to the implementation of the mission, HUF 6 billion is available. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, it can be said that the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade ensures that the wallet is successfully able to cope with its tasks and the consequences of the war in our neighbourhood. Thank you for giving me another chance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-98	Welcome, fellow Members. I now address Congressman Sándor F. Kovács, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-99	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Budget 2023 is a special budget. I'm not gonna go too far with the story if I say that every budget is a special budget, because it starts with the results of the past, and it's for the future. The budget has been submitted to Parliament in the middle of the year for eight years now. This is important because if we adopt the budget in the middle of the year, then the budget players, businesses, public institutions and those involved in the budget will be able to prepare for next year. It is very important that we are ready to start the year 2023, because we know that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the world, specifically in Europe. Perhaps three months ago, we would have said that we were looking at a calm year, because the results of the past years show that the Hungarian economy was on the right track. A few months ago, we would have said that we were past the most difficult years of the decade or this century, the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. We were able to say that Hungary, as the President of the National Bank said, was ahead of the Hungarian economy in turn, as we were able to resolve the quarantine measures as soon as possible, thanks to the vaccination programme, we were able to open the Hungarian economy six months, three months before the other countries of the European Union. This was reflected in the results, as economic growth was 7.1 percent in 2021. I don't even remember a time when we could have gone through this; in the first quarter of this year, 8.2 percent. This has not been the case in the period of modern Hungarian history, and these figures have all given rise to confidence, as the population's incomes have increased, unemployment has fallen greatly, and we thought that the investments that made the record could certainly give rise to optimism. But what really happened was that no one expected us to have had a war and an energy crisis, a massive increase in energy prices. The uncertainty that no one expected happened. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We must now count on the fact that, in the decade ahead, we are facing a crisis that is more serious than before, a more serious uncertainty that lies ahead. Our neighbor's war, the prolonged war, increases this uncertainty. The government is facing new tasks. The most important task is to reduce the costs and strengthen our defence capabilities. These are the new priorities for the 2023 budget. But not only do we need to care about these, but we need to protect the values that we have built over the past decades and have achieved over the past decades. We need to protect the cost reduction. This is an extremely difficult task, as Hungary seems to be a calmer island in energy prices, as there is a rush of cuts in overhead across Western Europe, throughout the European Union. [[Sic!]] This is not due to the fact that Hungary is a quieter place and the Carpathian Basin is not a drafty place, but the government must make a very serious effort to protect the reduction of the rent. The safety of Hungary and its families, the Hungarian people, must be ensured, as inflation, food price increases and increases threaten Hungarian families and Hungarian households. [[19.10]] The Hungarian economy must continue to grow, because the Hungarian economy is not only responsible for protecting the country, protecting the families, but also for taking care and dealing with the catch-up curve, so that as much investment is made in the country as possible and we can protect growth. The necessary resources must be created and created to protect the economy, preserve the security of the country, preserve the value of family support, the value of pensions, create jobs, support for investment in businesses. The aim is to maintain stability in the country, to further improve balance indicators, and therefore to continue with a disciplined budget. Revenue-enhancing measures and expenditure-cutting measures must be taken together, as the balance between Hungary's budget and its budget remains an important priority. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Let's take a look at some of the main figures from next year's budget. In the 2023 budget proposal, the government expects a 4.1 percent economic growth. It is probably smaller than this year, but I think that economic growth will double compared to Europeans. This budget accounts for a deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 3.5 per cent, a declining government debt of 73.8 per cent of gross domestic product and a inflation rate of 5.2 per cent. Ambitious figures, but I think that, looking back over the years, looking back at the strictness of the budget, these will be sustainable, and we hope that new surprises will not come to us in the economy. The change in the structure of the budget is that there will be two new funds compared to previous funds, the Rezségvédelmi Fény, in which HUF 670 billion is estimated, will be translated into public security; the Hungarian Defence Fund, in which HUF 842 billion is available. The war next door shows that the Hungarian defence capability must be greatly strengthened. The first fund allows the Hungarian people not to pay the price of the war in the global economy in the context of the Russian-Ukrainian war and the sanctions in Brussels. I would like to remind you that energy prices have increased several times and that additional sanctions can bring even higher energy prices. The Rezségvédelmi Alap protects Hungarian households against this. The preservation of Hungary's peace and security cannot be a subject of debate, so we remain committed to Hungary being a modern, strong army in line with the challenges of today's times. The Defence Fund shall ensure the continuation and acceleration of the development of forces. The budget will find a solution to the financing of the two funds, which will not impose any additional burden on Hungarian citizens. We expect greater social involvement from sectors that have achieved extra profit over the past difficult period. So the Hungarian state and the budget are asking for an extra profit during this difficult period to make a greater contribution to the maintenance of both the Defence Fund and the Rezségvédelmi Fund. This means that the recently notified special tax on extra-profit will be introduced. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The budget for next year will therefore be a budget for public security and defence. At the same time, in 2023, as in previous civil government budgets, it will remain at a level in all areas or more resources will be managed. I would like to mention some areas. On the one hand, in 2023 we spend more than HUF 730 billion on pensions than this year. This is a very important thing, since the real value of pensions has always been preserved by the Orbán government, but it has also been able to increase this year, since the 13th month pension will be paid again next year. In 2023 the government spent 2378 billion forints on education, which is nearly 200 billion forints more than 2022. In 2023 we spend 2669 billion forints on health care, so health institutions can manage more than 100 billion forints this year, and nearly 1500 billion forints more than in 2010 in the last year of the Gyurcsány government. Support for families, which is currently the highest in the European Union, also retains the HUF 2300 billion provided for this purpose. That's 450 billion more than this year. Dear House, Keeping the results is very important, but I would like to draw the House's attention to a few small details, Mr Secretary of State and the budget planners. In the last decade, Hungary's disadvantaged regions have largely caught up. In my constituency, too, institutions, schools, kindergartens, crèches were built, the road network was repaired, so we caught up more than we did many decades ago. This catch-up cannot stop, as we know that the economy is moving in a cyclical, sometimes up-and-coming period and on a downward path. I ask the honourable Secretary of State and the House to take into account in the budget for next year and in the next budget that regions that are lagging behind from the more developed regions of Hungary should continue to move forward in the catch-up programme, since this country is united, all Hungarian citizens are worth the same, whether in a disadvantaged region or in a more developed region. I call on this House to include in the budget of 2023, or 24 or the following, regions, municipalities with low trade tax, higher unemployment or lower population income, as these regions need not be forgotten, and those excellent infrastructure improvements, such as the improvement of the road network or the passage of four-track roads to all regions, can continue. Thank you very much for your attention. I propose to everyone that we adopt this budget of 2023. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-100	Mr László Varju, representative of DK, submitted a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-101	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Sándor F. Kovács's statement brought it out of me, because we were in a position several times to hear from the Minister of Finance or from the President of the Hungarian National Bank that we should pass in a corner. Then, ladies and gentlemen, think of everyone who usually drives, what it means when these leaders say that the economy must use methods that must be preceded by a curve. Sometimes it works, if someone tries, sometimes it causes disaster. And that's what happened. To mention only last year: the Minister of Finance already spoke about the fact that, in early summer, the economy will decrease, the President of the National Bank of Hungary talked about growth even in September. They were mixed up in contradictions that were unacceptable; and it was apparently the result of the ruckus that Hungary came out very badly of the economic crisis following Covid, and it is also in a very bad situation as it is now. Of course, there are other reasons for this, because it was not a story of what was carried away, stolen or bought unnecessarily during Covid's preserve, but instead of making bad decisions and arguing with the European Union today. [[19.20]] The serious consequence of this is that what my fellow Member has referred to as the catch-up of the region has not happened. Convergence may have been, but otherwise there was no concrete catch-up, as Hungary's four regions remain among the ten poorest European regions. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-22-102	Mr Sándor F. Kovács also asked for a word for two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-103	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. My colleague László Varju spoke to me. I would advise you not only to ride in a carriage, but also in a Formula One car, and if you've seen a Formula 1 car and race, you've seen better ones pass in a turn, but now it's just a metaphor. He said we came out of the worst of the Covid epidemic and closure. About half a year, three months earlier, we were able to open up in the Hungarian economy, and if last year's GDP growth of 7.1 percent is bad for everyone, then 7.1 percent can be compared with those of countries in an economic community in the European Union, and it can be said that we came out of the economic crisis after Covid so badly that according to various statistics, we were able to offer either the first or the second largest economic growth. The first or second place is not enough for anyone who doesn't have enough. I think that not only would the Hungarian economy, but any economy be happy to have a better result. So you can say that something is wrong, but the facts are stubborn, and in the decimal system, in the numbers below ten, everyone can really adjust. I think that the best economic growth last year does not show that the Hungarian government has done bad economic policy and that the Hungarian economy was wrong after the closures, but the opposite. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-22-104	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai also asked for the floor, so I will give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-22-105	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will be very brief, because Mr Sándor F. Kovács said the point, but indeed, Mr Zsolt Gréczy and Mr László Varju also encouraged me to say a few facts. Let me reach back for that. The Member said the Covid crisis, and Mr Zsolt Gréczy said the excellent situation in 2010. Zsolt Gréczy said that in 2010 the government of the time handed over governance with consolidated relations. What I remember factually is that since 2004, we have been in a continuous over-deficit procedure, alone from the new Member States. I remember that, as a result of the economic crisis in 2008-2009, we could not sell our sovereign debt at 13 percent yield levels. I remember that the IMF and the European Commission needed extraordinary financial assistance, that we were the first EU Member States to turn to them for financial assistance, and that the government then adopted the measures and proposals that international organisations had drawn up. So I don't recall that in 2010, the then elected Fidesz-KDNP majority and background government began to govern with a full register. I am mentioning this period because the next major crisis after the crisis in 2008-2009 was the Covid crisis. And we use the term "pre-emption" in the corner to say that if a country can do it, because it has a solid economic background, it has a solid financial basis, which is recognised by credit rating agencies, for example, do not give up, God, during the Covid crisis, see Hungary, the Moody, and its move, then let us see the opportunity in this crisis. The Hungarian government has chosen the way to provide additional support for investments, tax reductions, with its financial room for manoeuvre, to ensure the survival and development of businesses. And, yes, the result is what Congressman Sándor F. Kovács said. If DK qualifies itself as a European party... Congressman, look at Eurostat data, they are in my hand, and I will gladly hand them over with all the countries. [[He's showing papers to László Varju.]] Hungary had a smaller economic downturn than the average of the European Union in 2020 and a higher recovery in 2021 and early 2022. But I think what's even more important is that the level of employment has remained high, and real earnings have also increased, even in 2020. So I think that that turn-over was a success based on numbers. Let me say one more thought about the comments of Mr Sándor F. Kovács, which may once again lead the various benches to a common idea: territorial development. I fully agree with Mr President that we must pay attention to the fact that different regions of Hungary, different counties, are in different situations and require different measures. That is why I think it is important to maintain the programme, which is why it is important that the European Union funds which, I repeat, were accepted by the European Council and Parliament, Hungary receives, and from these sources we can indeed increase the envelope for the operational programme for territorial development, as the government has planned, will be transferred to the EU, which is linked to the payments made by the government, and therefore the territorial development that the Member has said can be financed effectively. I also draw attention to rural development subsidies, where the government has radically increased co-financing, and this Hungarian region, which is even less developed in terms of GDP, can increase the catch-up in my faith. I repeat: in next year's budget, we will count on the resources that will help the country as a whole and the individual counties within the country to catch up, and I hope that there is a common interest among the representatives of the various benches in order to obtain these EU funds, and that everyone at home and abroad will do everything in their power to reach an agreement that will really ensure that we can use the resources available in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-106	We will now return to the list of speakers that have been announced. We've got Congressman Gábor Press, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-107	Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I feel a little like the hillbilly because we're barely left. However, seriously, I would like to say something first of all in relation to the draft central budgetary law of 2023 concerning the budget of the judiciary, and secondly, I would like to share some up-to-date information on the state of the economy and employment of my constituency in the context of inflation, raw materials, energy price explosions and security policy challenges caused by the unforeseen Ukrainian-Russian war and its sanctions. At the same time, the successful social and economic policy of the last 12 years has also brought results in Heves County that we are very proud of; all the more so, because the county's territorial location makes it part of the region of North-East Hungary, but further to this, the figures presented support what was said in Minister Mihály Varga's exposé, i.e. that the central budget also serves to keep the economy on a growing path. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the budget of the judicial authorities, I speak first of all about the courts. The judicial justice system is an independent, independent form of power, and Aristotle has already stressed the principles that ensure its functioning and independence in his works. One of the pledges of independence of judges is that they are not financially, existentially vulnerable in their work. [[19.30]] As in the past, this requirement is met by the proposal for a central fiscal law before us, which provides the necessary resources to cover the Court's expenditure under a separate chapter. The courts are independent in the case-law and their operation is separate from the legislative and executive powers. However, in budgetary matters, like all the countries of Europe and the world, they are part of the single central budget. The budget of the courts constitutes an independent chapter, within which the Court and the single title are the courts, the 26 self-employed budgetary bodies, namely the five referenda, the twenty courts and the National Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also the responsibility of the President of the National Court of Justice to draw up the budget of the courts, and in this context the legislator empowers the President to participate in the budgetary negotiations. This is a guarantee rule that the National Judicial Council may deliver an opinion on the draft budget for the following year, drawn up by the President of the OBH. However, the President of the OBH is the head of the budget chapter, who manages chapter management and internal control of the courts. Control of individual courts as separate budgetary bodies is also the right and obligation of the President of the National Court of Justice. Dear fellow Members, The judicial salary system is defined by a cardinal law, but the basic salary for judges is provided for in the Act on the annual central budget. In my view, it cannot be debated that the remuneration of judges is not merely a budgetary issue, because it is essential for judicial independence that judges receive adequate remuneration. The continuous development of the judicial organisation system is therefore not only an economic issue in terms of human resources and infrastructure, but also of major importance from a social point of view. The budget of the chapter submitted for 2023 includes financial cover for the remuneration of human resources to improve the operational quality of the courts and, in addition, cover the existence of the material conditions necessary for the performance of the case-law. Dear Parliament, Another determining contributor to the justice system is the prosecutor's office. The Public Prosecutor's Office is not a separate independent branch of power, but, as our Fundamental Law states, it is an independent and independent constitutional institution. It is also a guarantee of independence in the case of prosecutors that they are also provided for in a separate budget chapter in the Central Budget Act. In a broader context, the moral and financial appreciation of public service workers is one of the government's most important goals. Therefore, the budget is available to cover the implementation of all launched career plans and wage measures taken. Accordingly, salary increases have been made to the so-called base, not only in relation to the prosecutor's office, but also in respect of the National Tax and Customs Office, the public education, the cultural sector, the social sector, the judiciary, law enforcement and defence employees. Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, the 2023 central budget provides both courts and prosecutors with the necessary resources for high-quality work. And now, in support of the fact that the previous 12 years of effective government work have established a 4.1 percent economic growth in the draft central budget law, obviously this is a projected number, a reduction in public debt, the protection of family support and pensions, and I share the current economic and employment data on the county Heves indicated in my introduction and on my constituency. In the county, only 2.8 percent of the employees live, national data, i.e. only 2.8 percent of the national employees live. Compared to this, the county accounts for 4.5 percent of the country's industrial production. The value of industrial production per capita is far above the national average. In 2021, the volume of industrial production increased by 8.3 percent over all previous years. The graphic data relating to employment are as follows. The number of job seekers registered in the county decreased by more than 52 percent compared to 2010. In the Eger and Füzesabony districts of my constituency, the rate of decline exceeds 62 percent. It is particularly welcome that the proportion of jobseekers under the age of 25 has decreased significantly. In the county, the unemployment rate is 13,4 per cent in Q1 2010 2022. In the first quarter, it decreased to 2.9 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the draft central budget law is not only sound in the area of justice, but, in the words of the President of the Court of Auditors, it is a stable point of alignment, and it also gives room for manoeuvre, which is resilient, in other words, to cope with the challenges in an extremely precarious situation. I therefore support the adoption of the draft budget law. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-22-108	It is now up to Congressman Gábor Riz of the Fidesz Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-22-109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Thus, at the end of the debate day, one would like to add some of the ideas that are important for Hungary's budget to today's discussion as a value added. As a triple grandfather, I always look at my family, I look at my loved ones, and all those around us, the citizens of Hungary. I'm not an economist, I'm more familiar with the human policy area, which is why I'm trying to approach all budgets from the people's side. I focus on their everyday destiny, their daily lives, their working conditions, their living conditions, their housing conditions and the fate of our nation at all. I will also approach Hungary's budget from here. This is the 12th budget in which I was able to participate in the debate. I remember there was a time when we argued about Hungary's budget at 4:30 in the morning, and we were able to pass a roll-call vote on the legislation that defined our entire annual budget, according to which the country was able to operate. I am happy and proud that all the budgets that we have voted for and released have been proven to have been spent for a year, and the country has been able to operate for a year. I am not saying that there were no more difficult moments, but Hungary's budget has always been predictable, stable and predictable. I feel that the draft budget of 2023 is equally thought-out, thought-out and builds on the experience that has already come down in this government and this thinking, in this sphere of value, since 2010. It is also very important to me that the budget is a priority area for two very important areas that are very important for our children, grandchildren, family members and loved ones: our sense of security. Our sense of security must be confirmed in two important areas: one is our protection, the protection of Hungary, and the other is our sense of security, which means our everyday living conditions, in short, our daily allowance. [[19.40]] The rent that everyone asks for each month is unsolicited, but it comes to what they have to do, they have to plan, and it affects people's lives in the next month, in the following months, and in the following seasons, along with its seasonal effects. In this, security, predictability is above all else, i.e. ensuring the reduction of the rent, its guarantee, as well as ensuring the living conditions of the citizens of the country, together with its guaranteed quality. That is why it is important for me that these two funds are created and provide a kind of stability in the country's life. I also consider it very important that, in this foolish world that surrounds us, which from time to time challenges the country, the sense of security of the budget will help us. We've lived quite a few times. We have experienced migration in 2015, we have experienced the Covid crisis in 2020, and now we are in the middle of a war, a war in our neighbourhood, and Europe's energy crisis is still spiced. In all of this, we must provide people in the world to the citizens of Hungary and give them a sense of security that Hungary's budget guarantees their livelihood, integrity and security for a year. This budget is working with indicators that are sound, taking into account the growth rate, taking into account the deficit-to-GDP target and taking into account inflation rates. These are traceable numbers, predictable numbers in the unpredictable that surrounds us. I do not want to repeat the speakers before me, they have said by lot what are the priority areas in the budget that are of particular importance: the ones that are important for our security, the support of families with children, the health security, the quality of our education, and, not to mention, the priorities for pensions and the rising income of the public sector are also important and guiding me, as some of my family make their living on them. I would like to focus on one area in particular, the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian village and the situation of the Hungarian economy. I say it comprehensively, because the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian village, appears to me as an essay in the program of the Hungarian village, during which the government assured the Hungarian region that it was as important as the city and as important as the capital. We can live with that. The proportionate development and development of this is also a guarantee that the country will develop in a proportionate manner. At a time when we are talking about a few million, ten million or a hundred million in the Hungarian village, which is, of course, billions in the size of the cities, we are experiencing and seeing a village in the Hungarian village, which is a village with renewed public buildings, renewed medical offices, public services, public roads, sidewalks, funeral homes and many other things that are very important for people living in the countryside. Because Hungary can live by living in the Hungarian countryside, and Hungary can live by the fact that the Hungarian economy can also be lived. It is therefore of particular importance to me that the Government of Hungary has divided the country into so-called economic zones, which it also seeks to develop in proportion. In addition to wanting to further strengthen the growth centres, in which the majority of universities and economic hubs provide a technological and economic development model for the wider areas, where the working plants, where additional work is carried out and where, with the help of the renewed infrastructure, the Hungarian countryside is also involved in the economic cycle of the western half of the country, the northwest, the central region, and now the surrounding area of Debrecen, and the neighbourhood of several large cities that are now also valid for God, Miskolc. The economic zone also means that the development of each joint has an impact on each other. After all, if we develop the university, higher education, we prepare the knowledge centres to help the Hungarian economy immediately with the help of the technological transfer. With the training of the Hungarian workforce, with the help of higher education and vocational training centres, they also provide a guarantee that the Hungarian product will be marketable in Hungary, in Europe and in the world today. This is what we strive to achieve as much added value as possible in these growth centres and then in the growing economic circles, as Hungary's aim is to reduce the appearance of the working country or assembly country and to increase the added value of Hungary in creating a product. That is why it is important to me how Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County has changed in recent years. I'd like to give you some chatter. The distribution of industrial production in Hungary and in this I would naturally place our county in Győr-Sopron County at 12,6 percent in recent years. It's an impressive number. It is also an impressive number that Budapest and its agglomeration were able to participate in this growth by 10.8 percent. And I am particularly flattered that Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county had a 8.2 percent share in Hungary's economic growth. In this county, industrial performance has increased by 76 percent in recent years. In this county, 36 thousand more people work in this county compared to 2010, while county migration figures deteriorated. And I must also say that foreign investors are the seventh most popular target area in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Why? Because the growth potential, with the help of Miskolc, the University of Miskolc as an economic centre, can extend to the whole of the county, and not only the so-called Borsodi industrial axis, meaning Ozd, Kazincbarcika, Miskolc, Tiszaújváros, Mezőkövesd can grow, but also smaller areas will be given the opportunity to integrate, manufacture the components, and contribute to the whole of the Hungarian product. Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ozd, the city that has been pitiful in recent years is undergoing economic change today. The two previous large assembly plants, which have actually assembled parts from finished products, are no longer there, the second just moved away. Who's in his place? It is a Hungarian enterprise that is fully recognised in international terms with domestic products and high added intellectual performance. It's the Wellis. And now, a foreign company is coming to Hungary to replace the assembly plant that had previously closed, which is very important for us, because it provides an opportunity in the automotive sector to contribute to a useful product in the North Hungary automotive cluster. For me, for us, Ozd, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is a key issue. It is a key issue because not only traditional sectors of the economy but also tourism as a whole have developed. In addition to traditional destinations, in addition to the national parks and the Tokaj region, we have now received new opportunities by developing the infrastructure, by participating in the programme "Active Hungary" as bicycle roads have been built and tourist attractions have been implemented that are further attractions. Since Hungary's budget for me, a rural representative, offers the opportunity to develop the region's Hungary, including Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, Ozd and its region, I propose that this budget be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-22-110	It is now time for Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-111	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Since I am a Member, the bill on the budget for 2023 is the 13th draft budget law, to which I have the honour to comment and to submit an amendment. Over the last 12 years, I have had the pleasure of monitoring the evolution of numbers and priorities. As always, there are tasks, goals and situations that need to be resolved, whether by planning, debating and adopting a responsible and predictable budget. [[19.50]] I still remember when, during the 2008-2009 economic crisis, the 2010 budget was planned by the left-wing government, for example, by cutting the funding of advocacy organisations representing people with disabilities by half-thirds, leaving the missing amounts to uncertain sources of tender, thus adding additional burden to the employees of the organisations. Since 2010, there has been any unexpected situation, force majeure, red sludge disaster, flooding, coronal virus, and now the Russian-Ukrainian war, but I have never once experienced the need for less planning in the area of disability or social policy or care policy. After the Crown Virus, we adopted last year's budget for the reboot in 2022, not knowing what will happen in the spring of 2022: war in the neighbouring country, inflation across Europe, price increases, and signs of an energy crisis. The most important thing in this situation is to maintain security and stability, so, as we have heard several times today, next year's budget will be a budget for defence and security. We will also continue to give priority to the family support system. What I would like to talk about now, like the speeches made in previous years, is disability and social policy-related tasks, objectives, subsidies. In 2023, priority tasks remain, without the need for completeness, to shape and develop child protection and regulatory backgrounds, to strengthen social, child welfare and child protection providers, to operate social, child protection institutions maintained by the State, and to contribute to the maintenance of service providers operated by municipal, ecclesiastical and non-state maintainers. Encouraging the employment of workers with disabilities in the open labour market as much as possible and shaping the social approach is also a priority. It is also a major task to further improve the situation of people with disabilities. In parentheses, I say that this is a task that is never over, this is a continuous goal and task: to give priority support to institutions providing autistic persons and to the provision of small numbers of people with disabilities, and to ensure an adequate level of operation of subsidised housing services and the effective implementation of new institutional replacement projects as a continuation of the replacement process, and to implement the measures provided for in the scope of action of the national disability programme. I also listed some of the tasks to see how diverse this area is, how diverse, how much and what tasks should be supported. If we look at the various appropriations on these, we can see that almost everywhere there will be more aid, more earmarked than this year. For example, support for specific sectoral professional programmes promoting social, child protection, child welfare and equal opportunities for people with disabilities. This line supports a wide range of tasks and programmes, such as support for the acquisition and conversion of disabled people, training of assistance dogs, sign language translation services, basic rehabilitation services for the blind, infocommunication-based distance services, and relief of families with disabilities, foster care, development of children's homes, support for housing homes, programmes for labour market integration, and more. In 2022 there was around HUF 8.6 billion, with around 9.4 billion planned next year. But I could also mention the support for the employment of workers with disabilities, which was planned for about HUF 50.1 billion this year, and next year there is HUF 57.2 billion on this line. And I could still list the appropriations where there is a significant surplus compared to this year, but I would like to draw attention to two lines. One is the promotion of social organisations for people with disabilities. The support of national advocacy organisations has increased from HUF 521.7 million to HUF 2.1 billion since 2010, with an increase of approximately 10 percent per year. The amount planned for the future is just as much that I understand, but I would like to make an amendment, facilitating the further safe functioning of the organisations and taking into account the different effects, such as inflation. Another is the support of competition sport and professional tasks. This line also includes support for the sport of the disabled and the development of the Paralympic movement. Based on the detailed justification of the bill, despite the significant increase in the support of competition sports, by about HUF 11 billion, the support for the sport of the disabled remains unchanged. Based on the 2019 base, 460 million forints are planned, while winter deaflympics and summer special Olympics are expected in 2023. So I would also like to propose an amendment to this, ensuring the necessary additional resources. Supporting and assisting people with disabilities in all areas, under the direction of the Ministry of Care Policy, remains a priority and emphasis. Although the 2011 census shows that 490 578 people, i.e. 4.9 percent of the population, have claimed to be disabled, expert estimates based on international studies show, however, that on average 10 percent of the population has some disability. So the real number in our country is more like 1 million. This can also be supported by the census data that show that the number of people with persistent health impairment is above 1.6 million in Hungary. In view of the fact that long-term diseases in a large part of the cases involve some form of disability, the overall number of affected social groups we are talking about is millions. The social group of people with disabilities can continue to rely on us, listening to them and trying to help them in everything. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-06-22-112	It is now up to Congressman Ákos Kara of the Fidesz Group. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-22-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to our fellow Member, Gergely Tapolczai, for illuminating the most important work on the budget from the point of view of people with disabilities. [[20.00]] We are nearing the end of a long working day, and two fellow Members are expected to speak outside of me today. In many ways, my fellow Members have approached the draft budget for 2023, so allow me to share my thoughts myself. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Due to the prolonged war and sanctions in Brussels, there is significant price increases throughout Europe, but also in the countries of the world, energy prices are skyrocketing. The most important goal of the government and the Fidesz-KDNP faction is for Hungary to stay out of the war and not for the Hungarian people to pay the price of the war. The most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security. Most European politicians, especially left-wing and liberal politicians, would destroy the economies of European countries with the most amazing proposals, even though in these months it is particularly important to make good decisions, to make good decisions, to make decisions that preserve Hungary's peace and security. We make decisions that protect people and protect the progress that has been made in recent years. The economic growth of recent years has helped to increase wages in Hungary, many have started to create homes or even renovate homes. In addition to the epidemic, there was a record increase in the economy. One of the most important tasks now is to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. In the prolonged war situation, therefore, we will also protect the country's security, the reduction of the costs, jobs, pensions, families, and we will also ensure that our country's security is strengthened by the budget. All this is for the protection of Hungarian people and families. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families currently pay the most favourable fees in the European Union. The aim is to maintain the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population, which is served by the Rezségvédelmi Alap, for which the government will provide HUF 670 billion. We cannot go without saying that the experts of the left-wing parties, this expert lunar station, are still arguing for the elimination of the reduction of the rent. There have been a thousand attacks earlier on the Hungarian government due to the reduction of the rent, even though the result of the national consultation has proved earlier that the majority of Hungarian people and families have stood up for the reduction of the rent and even needed this reduction, even when there has not been a pandemic or this terrible war in our neighbourhood. Unfortunately, in recent months, new concepts have become commonplace in Western and Southern European countries: low-cost people, needy people, who are unable to pay increased fees for millions in Western Europe and Southern Europe. Speed, political conflicts, government conflicts west of us. Is there anything you can hope for from Brussels bureaucrats in this situation? I can't, I can't now. It couldn't have been before, and it can't be now, and it probably won't be the following. They threaten the countries, our country, with infringement procedures, while, in addition to the energy prices that are loose, the European people just want to be able to pay their electricity bills, heat and cook. For years, we have clearly tracked the savings in our bills. Some European countries are now late trying to compensate those in need. By the time these bureaucratic measures reach the people, however, they will jump again, and these people, the people who live further west of us, will have lost the value of these late compensatory amounts. For these problems, therefore, my fellow Members, there will be no solution in Brussels. In this situation, we have a clear and clear aim of maintaining the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population. The retail reduction system provides clear, transparent, predictable and real help in Hungary. In this we see a lot of haste, lack of information, and delays in countries far west of us. The Hungarian government's planned Rezsédvédelmi Fund must be paid by large companies, primarily banks, telecommunications companies and energy companies, which have gained extra profit even in the context of this terrible war situation. A large part of the extra profit will have to be paid, and that is the right thing to do. That there will be similar measures in the West, perhaps, but it will certainly not be enough for left-wing politicians to say that less people in Europe are heating or driving less. Dear Parliament, Since national governance, Hungary has made an economic turnaround, we have set the economy on a growth path, and we have preserved this despite the epidemic. Thanks to government measures, the growth of the Hungarian economy was 7.1 percent last year. In addition to government decisions, the most important component of these results was the diligence of the Hungarian people, and the economic policy turnaround that we announced and implemented in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, What is extremely important in the draft Hungarian budget next year? On the one hand, the protection of families and pensions. There must be a debate over the need to protect family support and pensions, and we will protect them. In the following year, the 13th month's pension will remain and pensions will continue to rise according to inflation. In addition, the budget also prioritises support for Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing in these extraordinary times. Tax incentives for the family tax system, the retirement of the 13th month pension, the personal income tax exemption for people under 25 will continue to contribute to maintaining the purchasing power of families. The combined amount of family policy spending and tax incentives would increase by nearly HUF 450 billion to HUF 3225 billion compared to this year. In 2023, as many of my fellow Members said, we will spend more money on security. One of the priority areas of the 2023 budget is security, which can also be seen from the amount available for defence. Law enforcement spending is over HUF 965 billion next year, which is an increase of HUF 517 billion compared to 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, About HUF 2670 billion will be available in healthcare next year. This amount is more than HUF 1470 billion higher than the last budget submitted by the left-wing government in 2010. The budget for pensions and pensions will be close to HUF 4900 billion next year. The budget of 2023 therefore allocates more than HUF 370 billion to the total 13th month pension payments. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to talk about one more important area - developments. Some left-wing politicians are talking about ending and there will be no improvements. In a rural settlement, a mayor once said that he was doing a great deal for his village, that the point of the left-wing development program was to hand over a small development every four years, and then they waited to vote for them. I suppose that's why, in the last elections, a lot of laurels didn't even come together, and then, before that, even the separate left-wing party lists. Ladies and gentlemen, In Győr and in the Győr area, Pannonhalman and the villages, I was elected as MP, so thanks to the voters and the people there, I represent our region for the fourth time in the Parliament. With government support, the most important housing park development in the last 30 years of the city is still under way. Earlier, I embraced the paramedics' request, brought the proposal to the government to build a new rescue station. In the southern part of the city, near the hospital, the development of a new rescue station in Győr has begun. It is going on, it will continue next year, and it will end. The new ambulances that have been in service over the past years will serve at this new rescue station. Thank you, thank you to the paramedics and paramedics for the work they do for the Hungarian people and families throughout the country. In Győr, like several parts of the country, the old, obsolete rescue station building will be a thing of the past. Thanks to government support decisions in Győr and the region, this very difficult and trying profession will be done under good conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Another development has also begun, begins and continues in the constituency, so what left-wing representatives say is not true is that there will be no improvements in the country next year. [[20.10]] As an example, I would like to say that two schools are being developed at a housing estate in Marcalváros, and two improvements are being made at the PÁGISZ school at the same time in this vocational school. But also at Margit Kovács School in Marcalváros a few days ago a modernisation program began. One of the country's most important road development is continuing, which is currently taking place between Győr and Pápa, since a new two-track road is being built. This will continue next year, and this investment will help tens of thousands of people when it is finished. One of the city's largest investments is the construction of the Győr Water Experience Park. We will also soon hand over the expansion of the industrial area, the Tata road to access jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, We continue to ask for the support of the Hungarian people for development and for the safety of the country. Development work will therefore also be against the statements of left-wing politicians next year in the region where I can represent the people and families living there myself. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to highlight these important budgetary targets, results and plans as we approach the end of this long day. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-22-114	Mr Lajos Mészáros is the next Member from the Fidesz Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-22-115	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The national government of Hungary regards human and human health as a priority. For this reason, the budget will be available for health next year at around 2670 billion. This is more than HUF 1470 billion higher than the last budget submitted by the left-wing government in 2010. This represents more than 2.2 times the increase. Remember that before 2010, Balliberal governments withdrew 600 billion forints from health care, closed hospitals, closed 16,000 active beds, laid off 6,000 health workers, took a month's wages, and introduced a visitation fee, hospital allowances. Between 2003 and 2009, real health expenditure in Hungary alone decreased on the basis of OECD data. However, between 2010 and 2018 this increase was the seventh highest rate in Hungary. Good health is a significant individual and social value and resource, whose preservation and development is of national interest. The state of health of the population basically determines the fate and prospects of a nation for the future, as well as the country's economic competitiveness. For this reason, civil governments have recently made over 500 billion in health improvements: hospitals, clinics, rescue stations have been renewed. In the largest city of my constituency, Dunaújváros, in my home town, St. Pantaleon Hospital also received more than 7 billion-dollar building, instrument and training development. There have been unprecedented wage developments at several paces, and they continue. In parallel with the development of medical wages, gratitude money distorting the system of more than half a century has ceased. In Hungary, the majority of health losses, like other developed countries, are linked to lifestyle and environmental risks, so prevention can be significantly reduced. The government, driven by its responsibility for the health of the population, is 1722/2018 on national health programmes. approved the five national health programmes for the comprehensive renewal of health in the period 2019 to 2030: cancer, circulatory, musculoskeletal, mental and paediatric health programmes. Together, the coordinated programmes ensure that Hungary, in cooperation with government support, professional and civil society organisations, with the involvement of the population, is able to achieve a healthier, longer life for its citizens. The most effective parts of the interventions planned in health are those that contribute to improving public health by improving public health. The international strategy papers also support the fact that substantial changes are expected only from the systemic renewal of public health, coordinated interventions aimed at the health and environment of individuals and communities. It is therefore essential to develop the scope of public health services for the development of health, health and disease prevention, strengthening it by appropriate management, appropriate human resources, funding, communication and research and development tailored to international trends. According to the vision of healthy Hungary 2021-27 health sector strategy, individuals and communities live in a healthier environment, as well as strengthened public health effectively implement complex public health interventions in cooperation with the rest of society. The overall objective of the sector is to ensure a longer and healthier life for the entire Hungarian population, regardless of who lives, where and under what socio-economic conditions. In addition to public health interventions, it is also important to strengthen the health care system. A new foundation for basic health care, strengthening prevention activities, strengthening outpatient care and the establishment of a sustainable, well-functioning institutional system has been set up as a government priority. CXXIII on basic health care was adopted in 2015. Law and the concept of strengthening basic health care, which includes, in addition to the analysis of the situation, the planned steps for further development of the basic care, has been completed and has been discussed in society. The measures taken and planned so far are for the following purposes in carrying out the tasks arising from this Act. Enhance the competence of primary care to increase and ensure access to care near the place of residence. Strengthen the public health approach in order to prevent disease and strengthen the gatekeeper role of basic care in order to relieve the burden of outpatient and inpatient care. To assess and coordinate activities in the social and health areas, to reduce the territorial inequalities of benefits and the burden of active inpatient care, to make basic care more attractive and to eliminate areas without treatment. In addition to the basic supply, structural reinforcement of the specialised supply system is also important. It is necessary to strengthen the functioning of the outpatient and in-patient care system with a structural and financing perspective which is capable of making substantial progress in the health of the population and improving operational and management processes. An economically better functioning supply system can contribute more to the improvement of population health indicators, which also supports the achievement of demographic and competitiveness objectives. With regard to secondary and higher education and residency training, the aim of the sector remains to provide adequate quality vocational training and to support young professionals, doctors with scholarships and other incentives in order to provide both territorially and professionally defined and qualified staff with a view to ensuring a safe and adequate level of healthcare. And finally, improving the supply of pharmaceuticals to the general public. The government is committed to ensuring high professional and safe supply of medicinal products to the public and to continuing to improve it. This is the purpose of the operating aid to small-scale pharmacies providing the supply of medicinal products alone in a given municipality and the promotion of the majority-pharmacies' ownership rate in public pharmacies by providing interest-rate subsidies under the Patika loan scheme. [[20.20]] I believe that these measures can achieve significant health gains for the domestic population, reduce territorial inequalities in terms of access and make healthcare even more effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-22-116	We are now having a normal discussion with our fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, representative of DK. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Indeed, as the last speaker of the Democratic Coalition's faction, I would like to draw attention to a few things once again and perhaps draw some conclusions. Mr State Secretary and many of my fellow Members have repeatedly referred to the important steps they have taken to increase employment. And what I called attention to, in fact, in my speech as the lead speaker, is that by creating the possibility of catching up, by essentially competing with low wages for investors, Hungary will be very disadvantaged, because the last ten years, when there was an abundance of resources in the international space and in Hungary, and a great deal of European Union resources have come, this situation has not been used to make the economy a knowledge-based economy. Here is the final analysis of the Hungarian National Bank, who otherwise supports all of this, I quoted it from it. Unfortunately, this situation has been wasted for ten years, with the result that, in a critical situation where there is an economic crisis for some reason, Hungary is seriously affected. Production is low-efficiency, economic structure is unconventional and export performance is weak. This is precisely what the EU funds should have been used for, and they did not. You're building your economic policy on foreign technology, low wages. In this respect, I think that there are signs of a wasted period. Here is the serious consequence that, by the way, when there is an economic crisis, you are now running into a price-wage spiral, and who knows how you will stop it. At the moment, they compete with trying to follow with wages the inflation of almost 15-20 percent, which you also acknowledge, that this would be it if the price caps were not used, and in this case Hungary would be an exceptional leader in this, i.e. in inflation competition. Madam President, thank you for your patience. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-22-118	We now have a speech from Mr President Novak, representative of our country. Here you go.
u2022-06-22-119	Dear Parliament, As the final speaker of the budget debate over 12 hours, I would like to talk about three strikes, three welcome billings, three concerns and three proposals for the break-out of the Hungarian Movement. So first, the three strikes. In many cases, because of counterproductive closures, the economy has been weakened by reference to the coronal virus. A proposal for a budget law has now been submitted on the ruins of nearly a year's recession. In addition to the closures, the Hungarian national economy has been burdened by our draining of multinational companies supported by the government, and the embargo against the Russians has also caused invaluable damage, especially to agriculture in recent years, since they were unfortunately supported without a word by the government, and only protested about energy sources. After the three strikes, three things are welcome in their draft budget law. First of all, that defence spending finally reaches 2 percent of GDP, but let us add quickly, this is what we have been waiting for for decades, and which, after decades of failure, is not enough, as more decades will have to pass after the shameful demise of the defence, with such a budget to get the defence in a good state. So, while the defence budget can be called appropriate, the state of the defence must in no case be taken into account, at such a budget rate, several decades will still have to take place in order for the defence to be in an appropriate state. The other thing to welcome is the maintenance of the retail reduction, but let's add quickly, while the municipalities will be in a difficult situation afterwards. And as a third, I would like to welcome the family support system, at least in terms of the fact that they continue to be large, let us say, compared to the Gyurcsány governments or other countries, but unfortunately, Hungarians are losing more and more weight, and these steps do not seem to be enough. Unfortunately, from the 144-point package published by the Hungarian National Bank a few weeks ago, I don't see much of any realization here in the Finance Act, even though the MNB itself said that I quote. The Hungarian family support system cannot cover the costs of raising children for families. This is a serious statement, and the MNB even says that the family tax relief is one of the most important elements of the Hungarian family support system, but its amount has not followed the dynamic wage increase in recent years. The family tax allowance for three children is worth only half as much as the average wage at the time of its introduction. The MNB found this to be very benign, because, according to my calculations, it would not need a double increase, but a 2.4-fold increase, in order to keep the value of the family tax allowance in force from 1 January 2011, which was 99 thousand forints for three children, today if we had compared to the average wage and if we had kept to it, the government would have to have a certain great pride, but unfortunately still 99 thousand forints for the family tax. So, like pensions, family tax breaks should at least be followed up by inflation, as families take up not a year or two, but for decades. So be an inflation follower, so it will preserve its value. In the interests of a predictable and predictable future, the Hungarian Movement calls for this, as well as for the VAT-freeness of the articles needed to raise children, and we could also list our family policy proposals. But, speaking of pensions, I have to bring one more in relation to the proposals made by the MNB, since you have no longer adopted the proposal of the Hungarian National Bank, making the pension system family-based, so that the pension supplement is fixed as a percentage of the contribution of working children. The MNB itself found that women raised three children receive 20 percent lower initial pensions than their childless peers. Well, what kind of social injustice is that? ! Why are we putting up with this? ! Don't put up with it. Three things to worry about. On the one hand, inflation estimates are 5.4 percent, this is extremely, too optimistic. Even according to KSH, food prices have increased by 19 percent in the last year, and then we didn't talk about real estate, where there are then horrific increases, and there are still a number. The estimate of the euro exchange rate is also extremely optimistic, with a figure of HUF 377, even though we are already at 400. It would therefore be more realistic to estimate and calculate a higher exchange rate, especially when planning sovereign debt in foreign currency. And now, in addition to the over-optimistic estimates, one more thing that gives rise to concern is the second, and this is the increase in our sovereign debt in foreign currency by the magnitude of HUF 1200 billion, to HUF 11 250 billion, as planned, but that is only if it is not HUF 400 per euro, but we are now more than that. Moreover, debt in foreign currency is associated with extremely poor long-term risks. Its long-term risks are well beyond its short-term benefits. In the balliberal era, the Hungarian population could learn this for life. [[20.30]] And finally, another reason to worry. The third thing I would like to point out is that, in an incomprehensible way, it is as if the current government were angry with health and education: the underfunded nature of the two sectors continues. Their share of the operating budget will continue to deteriorate compared to 2022. This year, 10.1 percent of the resources reached health care, next year only 9.1 percent; this year, 8,6 percent of the resources will be available for education, and only 8.1 percent next year. Therefore, despite the nominally higher amount, if, on the one hand, inflation eats it and, on the other hand, if there is more to everything else in it, these two sectors will be permanently destroyed and eliminated. The fact that we couldn't see the term "health" and "education" in the names of the ministries showed that these two crisis sectors were trying to be swept under the carpet. Finally, Sándor Pintér has undertaken the dirty work of taking these two orphan areas into his name if he has to, but unfortunately, as a stepparent, he has already told us that many good things cannot be expected of the affected workers in the area and the Hungarian society, because who would not be involved in health care or education, so this basically determines our well-being. And finally, let me offer you three opportunities to break out in the name of our country's movement. First of all, is it a question of our membership of the EU: whether we should be members or be free? That's the question. More and more people feel that the EU is more colonising, using us, and increasingly interfering with our internal affairs, eliminating our national self-determination, bringing countries together into a European united states instead of a Europe of nations. Thomas Piketty, the famous French economist, has also calculated that more profits are going out from Hungary to the West by multi-enterprises than EU funding is coming back. Although according to the Hungarian Movement, it is not possible to leave overnight and even from year to year, it is necessary to draw up the balance of our accession to the EU. It is not a balance sheet that we see one or two figures in the Budget Act, for example that the contribution to the EU budget amounts to more than HUF 600 billion or HUF 17 billion for international membership fees and EU contributions, not to mention how difficult it is to quantify the damage the European Union causes when it intervenes in our internal affairs. So we need to take stock of other options outside the European Union, and I am thinking of building bilateral economic cooperation with, say, other countries. There is also life outside the Union and it must be prepared after the Union. As a second breakout opportunity, I would also like to recommend that we levy a tax on the oligarchs. The Hungarian Movement would have the oligarchs accounted for, but because of the political crime that has been legitimized in many cases, the real recovery of public property can only be achieved through the tax on billions of dollars, and we do not want to make promises, but we are also planning real radical action in this area. Moreover, the taxing of billionaires is justified and fair because social scissors are increasingly opening up between the poor and the rich, social mobility is falling, so we need a greater tax on billionaires. And finally, as a last breakout opportunity, I would like to recommend that Hungary organise a long-term profitable Olympics with national cooperation, involving the supervisory board of opposition parties and civil society organisations, reducing corruption, so this is what Mi Hazank proposes, and a budget line should be published to prepare for this. There is, of course, a government responsibility in a joint planning. The 2036 Olympics would be a realistic and rewarding opportunity for Hungary. The necessary facilities have already been built, it would be a mistake not to take advantage of them. The third or fourth largest sports event in the world after the Olympics and the World Football Championship is the water World Championship, which is currently taking place in Budapest, and its facilities could also be used in the Olympics and the World Athletics Championship, which will be in Hungary next year. These must obviously be taken into account. If we can cope with these, if these facilities are already built, then no Olympics are unfulfilled. I also think that the soccer game against the English has thoroughly rearranged the social perception of an Olympics, and since we are one of the most successful sports nations in the world, we deserve a five-ring world game. This would also strengthen our national pride consciousness, which is invaluable. It has a positive impact on health as well as on mass sports, but it can also be quantified and profitable for an Olympics in the long term. Obviously, this requires economic plans. International experience and economic analysis show that while winter Olympics do not have a positive impact on the regions concerned, and even GDP may fall back in the years around the implementation of the Olympics, summer Olympics can also play a catalyst role for the economy. Tourism can grow over the long term, there can be a lot of jobs, and it is the development of infrastructure that would remain: new public transport lines, new roads such as the expansion of M1 and M7 to three lanes would be useful anyway. Moreover, Hungary is not the only one who should finance this, as the International Olympic Committee also provides significant resources for the settlement. Dear Parliament, A quarter of a century ago, the program of the nation-building state was announced by MIÉP. A government program like this, a budget like this, unfortunately, has been waiting for you ever since. This is why we will be proposing amendments, since the government's budget proposal does not build a nation-building state, but, for example, a national coronal virus factory for HUF 19 billion. That is why we will be proposing countless amendments in order to change this. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-22-120	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicates that he wishes to speak. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-22-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, I don't want to waste your time. Allow me to respond very briefly to the last two comments. Mr László Varju and I have been arguing for a long time about how economic processes can be understood, what numbers show. Allow me, Congressman, to miss the fact that you cannot support your claims with numbers. When you say that Hungary is characterised by low wages, let me recall the change in net wages since 2017: 12.9 per cent in 2017, 11.3 per cent in 2018, 11.4 per cent in 19 and 9.7 per cent in 2020 in the severe year of the Covid crisis, 8.7 per cent of net wages in 2021; and this year we expect an increase of more than 16 per cent and 10.2 per cent in next year's budget. So I think that the figures, the figures of the past, the figures and prognosis so far contradict the government's objective of ensuring competitiveness with low wages. We need a knowledge-based economy, and I agree with Congressman. That is the spirit of next year's draft budget law. If we want to keep economic growth above the level of the European Union, it is necessary that the labour market remains stable. We see that the labour market is tight, the potential for expansion is limited and added value needs to be increased. For this reason, next year's draft budget law will provide significant extra resources in the field of higher education, and we will also support R &amp; D, as we also support cooperation between R &amp; D centres, education centres and the corporate sphere. There are many examples of this in Hungary: the University of Miskolc, if I watch, the University of Győr, if I watch, their cooperation with the companies there, Boscht or the Audit of Győr. So I think we have set out such directions in the draft budget law for next year, and so far actions have shown that, yes, with the knowledge-based economy, we have moved towards greater added value. As far as weak exports are concerned, I cannot interpret the words of the Member. In recent years, export performance has reached a record. So I hope that this will remain the same in the coming years, and this high export will not only mean that multinational companies operating in Hungary export a lot abroad, and that profits will be fully realised, taken away, but will generate new investments. And I also hope that the export activity of domestic-owned companies will increase, and their income, the income of the domestic owners, will also increase. [[20.40]] I would like to turn to Mr President Novak's comment. Mr László Toroczkai, Head of Group, Mr President also mentioned the strong national economy in the spirit of patriot economic policy. I fully agree with this effort. From this point of view, however, Covid showed that, indeed, in the field of the health industry, there is room for strengthening the Hungarian health industry, which has a long tradition. That's why we started a health support program at Covid's. And I think that when there was a line for vaccines in Hungary, and the vaccines, in my opinion, saved the lives of many people, and this private opinion, I think that it was supported by a number of analyses, when more than 6 million people in Hungary took on the vaccine, there is a place to prepare and support a national vaccine factory, as it also strengthens the national industry. I agree with you in the defence of the three areas to be welcomed by Congressman. Indeed, this 2-percent commitment is a NATO commitment, and I believe that it will increase its value, so that we can achieve this 2-percent level in a more difficult economic situation in response to the war by bringing the deadline forward. As a person serving the country, the nation as a volunteer reserveer, Mr. Congressman, he knows exactly what the situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces is, what developments have been made in recent years, and this is supported by the budget proposal for next year. Family benefits. Once again, I think that what the Member says is in the draft budget law for next year. War situation or no war situation, difficult circumstances or no circumstances, the amount of family support is increasing. Of course, the Member is right that not all the family support elements are expanding, which is why I think it is advisable to look at the whole family support system in a complex way and see that this family support system is also growing next year. We were talking about inflation. You mentioned this among the dangers. Whatever the rate of inflation, whatever the rate levels are, next year's budget law states that, for example, the benefits of home-building support or baby-waiting loans remain. And that's important because the inflation environment can change. But the family who took the baby shower loan and decided to take on children, and as a result no amount has to be repaid or only the nominally recorded amount has to be repaid, has nothing to do with the larger inflation environment. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to reiterate this family support system. If we look at it this way, I hope that more of the opposition benches will support next year's draft budget law. Finally, in terms of concerns and outbursts: euro area, euro exchange rate; foreign currency debt, the government's intention is clear. We have never said that it is appropriate to run the rate of foreign exchange debt to zero, as the State also has obligations to fulfil in euro and foreign currency. It is also appropriate to obtain income in foreign currency. We said we were reducing the foreign exchange debt rate. This decline trend has been seen in recent years, and we want to keep the foreign exchange debt ratio within 25 percent next year. And if I mention the euro amount and, say, the euro exposure to the foreign exchange debt, then I am arguing with the Member about the outbursts. You mentioned the Europe of nations. If the Hungarian Movement considers traditions important... we know from history that Árpád led Hungarians to Europe physically, geographically, geographically, from a cultural and values point of view, St. Stephen bound Hungary to the western Christian world, and I think that the founding fathers of the European Communities used to imagine a different Europe, just the Europe of the nations you mentioned. The Hungarian Government is working to put this foundation before us when we think about European Union affairs, and, following the idea of a Europe of nations, Hungary can win membership in the geographical heart of Europe, in a spiritual sense and cultural sense, as a member of the European Union. Next year's budget, I think, is also about this, and I think that, in addition to the payments you have mentioned, we will be able to achieve economic development, catching up and strengthening the nation. In this spirit, I wish you to consider your votes when deciding on next year's draft budget law later. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-22-122	Dear Parliament, As no other speakers have made themselves known, the general debate is adjourned. It will continue at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. This is what MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, applied for:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-22-123	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to take this opportunity once again to report to you on important matters and news concerning my constituency. In general, I would also like to pass on good experience and good practice so that we can get this from others, and in this way we serve development together. Together with the city leadership, in 2019 we agreed that Újpest would pursue a green policy that would create a XXI. A European district of the century, where everyone can feel at home. This is how we complement the diligent work that every family in Newpest, Angelland, does every day. I have already told you about many ideas and their implementation in recent years, but I have brought you two more important events. The body of representatives voted in favour of the initiative of Vice-Mayor Norbert Trippon to provide free composting vessels and rainwater collectors to the municipality of Újpest, which can be used by private individuals or by housing associations with closed gardens. Rainwater collectors for irrigation are useful because climate change has made it more hectic, right, the distribution of precipitation, and in these more dry periods it is useful to put aside rainwater. However, greening is accompanied not only by utility, environmental awareness, but also by aesthetics. This is supported by the Újpest lavender park, built next to the Szilas Creek, where 5870 lavenders, 1432 other perennial plants and running crops are being planted. The construction of the park is moving along the river Szilas. Walks, benches, so-called sitting pebbles, pergolas, solar field lighting, and like I said, there's gonna be plenty of lavender here. The works are expected to be completed at the end of June. A pleasant walk is certainly suitable, whether now or now, during the period of construction, but after that, I strongly recommend to you all how to rejuvenate in Newpesten. And if we add that the construction work of the Spring Street community tanker will be completed soon, then the possibility will be opened to another 40 inhabitants of Újpest to try out urban gardening. The first community tanker was built on the Izzó residential estate in the area of the Gyula Jumpó row 17 last year. In the tank, 22 high-beds could begin the professional work of the then successful candidates, and this became a real success, not only among gardeners, but among the population of Újpest. Therefore, the municipality of Újpest also sought out the next location, where a double-sized community tank with a total of 40 beds was established. The application was launched on 10 June, and the Újpest janitorial office awaits the applications until midnight of 26 June, which can be submitted on the kossegitankert.hu website this year. More and more people are going into urban gardening. A window or balcony is perfectly enough to start this. Of course, I am aware that this is all a small thing, but I sincerely believe that with these small steps we are moving slowly, and that every day we are getting closer together to the implementation of the Újpest that we have dreamed together. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-22-124	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
