u2022-11-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that I will be assisted by notary Ágnes Vadai and notary András Aradszki. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, from 12:35 a.m. to 14:05 a.m. for questions and questions, then from about 14:05 a.m. to 15:05 a.m. for instant questions and answers, then until 16 a.m. for a break, then V/1550 for the future of our children, the quality and conditions of public education. There will be a political debate, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled "Our current affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-02-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent decades, we have lived in an era of risks and uncertainties. Unfortunately, this has clearly shifted to a period of crisis. We are living in a period of energy crisis, climate crisis, social crisis and war crisis, and it is feared that this will definitely overshadow and define the 2020 years. If we look at the path that led to this, unfortunately, nothing happened that could not have been predicted. These crises are largely caused by over-enhancing consumer societies, by over-enhancing market economies. I've had a lot of warnings from the '60s and '70s about what needs to be changed so we don't get this far. The last decade was probably a period of silence before the storm in Hungary, too, when the Hungarian government based its competitiveness and fiscal balance on cheap Russian gas, incoming German capital and Brussels funds, European Union subsidies, but it was clear exactly how shaky the government was, trying to build Hungary's competitiveness on these three uncertain factors. Over the last decade, we would have had plenty of time to prepare for these crises, to get rid of Russian dependence, this means primarily dependence on Russian hydrocarbons. This dependence has now led us to the crisis that is perhaps the most difficult for Hungary in the European Union. When you look at the past decade, you think of the cricket and the ant's tale, where the government played the role of the cricket. There is no reason to wonder that a lot of people can really wear their chins out in the winter. If we look at how we got here and what is the way out, then we need to establish that the state has a very, very important role to play in dealing with this crisis. At this point, not less, but more public engagement and responsibility are needed. That is why the Hungarian government's withdrawal from this responsibility is incomprehensible. Let us look at what is happening with regard to this amendment of the social law, on which we have had a marathon debate. We have stood our ground, but to this day we have not been given an answer to the question of why we need to amend social law in this crisis, which would mean that the state would be even more discouraged in terms of the provision of tasks. If we are talking about the role of the state, then we also need to talk about sustainable green solutions, because they are a way out of the energy crisis, the climate crisis, and they help us get rid of the Russian hydrocarbon dependence. This is precisely why we have launched our Green Consultation, which I encourage everyone to complete from here, and we can meet questions available here on this page, Zoldkonzultacio.hu, which are the real solutions. This is why we urge real solutions to lift the ban on wind energy in Hungary since 2016 the installation of wind power plants has been banned. We also did not get an explanation of why this was happening and when this would be resolved. The LMP has a proposal to support Parliament's debate so that wind power plants can be replanted in Hungary! If we are talking about renewable energy sources, the restriction on the use of solar energy is incomprehensible. This goes against the government's own energy strategy, because not only do they tax the use of solar energy, but now they do not allow Hungarian households, families, small and medium-sized enterprises to enter the system. They argue that the network cannot withstand the green energy that households produce. Why has this network not been developed in the last 12 years? They could see precisely, in line with their own strategic objective, that more and more people are using solar energy very correctly. Why didn't they upgrade the network? But I could talk about the national insulation program, the introduction of a climate lease or the release of nuclear power. Social measures and sustainable green solutions are emerging from the crisis. That's what we're asking for on the government. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-02-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary, answers.
u2022-11-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I always listen to your speeches with great interest, and I must say that I think we agree on a number of points. However, as I have said in the past, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that, in terms of our energy independence and energy diversification, no one has done more than the Orbán governments in the past period, and I can say specifically why this has happened. We have talked about this several times, but on the one hand, with the expansion of interconnectors, we can simply get gas from more places. We've increased the number of interconnectors from two to six. I think it's a big deal. By the way, this summer, our power grid was connected seven times from the seven neighbouring countries. We must not forget the situation we started from. Before 2010, left-wing governments sold energy companies, sold gas reservoirs and had to buy them back. I think that, because of the current energy situation, which is particularly bad due to sanctions, this is a key issue now, that we can have our own energy supply at all, but in order to do so, the government had to make those responsible decisions so that these companies and gas reservoirs could be held at all in Hungarian hands. Here the congressman mentioned the green consultation you have launched. I have to say that it is a very, very bad and irresponsible request that we stop the Paks expansion, because I would also like to say this with concrete examples that Paks II. The project will avoid emissions of 17 million tonnes of CO2 on an annual basis. In addition, we are avoiding 14 million tonnes of CO2 emissions each year thanks to the existing Paks block. In the case of cooperation between the two, this means more than 30 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. By comparison, our country's forested areas can absorb about 6 million tons of carbon dioxide each year. I think that, in the current situation, increasing domestic electricity production is clearly a key issue, especially if we want to reduce our use of natural gas in the future. In relation to what the Hungarian government is doing, and in the current situation, which clearly increased with the sanctions policy following the war, we must say that we are always, under all circumstances, the Hungarian families and the Hungarian people are the most important. [[11.10]] A Eurostat data recently came out, as a result of the increase in gas prices between the first half of 2021 and the first half of 2022, according to the data available from the 24 EU Member States, in 23 years. Gas prices have increased to the greatest extent in Estonia, Lithuania and Bulgaria, mainly due to energy costs. There was only one Member State where the price of natural gas for retail consumers decreased slightly during the same period, and this is Hungary. I think this is a very, very important message for the Hungarian people in the current winter period. You also mentioned the issue of solar energy and solar panels. Obviously, we have put a very, very great emphasis on increasing solar energy within our country over the past five years, and we know that the development of the electricity grid is important and must be flexible, and therefore the government is spending HUF 103 billion on developing and making the electricity grid more flexible; this means a 50 percent aid intensity for companies. Originally, this aid scheme would have been financed by the government from the EU funds of the Restoration Fund, but since the negotiations went on, we decided to pre-finance it, so the modernisation of the electricity grid itself and the flexibility of the electricity grid will be clearly addressed by the government as a key issue. We also consider it important to increase geothermal growth, in this connection we have already defined our plans and objectives. I would like to ask the Member to help and help the Group to achieve the green targets that we would like to achieve, to act, and to do so in Brussels and in all international forums, because I think that these are important things, but if we are to communicate elsewhere within the walls of this Parliament, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and we communicate in international forums, which does not help our common cause. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-4	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The New York Supreme Court passed an extremely important, perhaps precedent judgment the other day, and in this judgment it is said that the dismissal of workers in the United States of America who were fired simply because they refused to take up the so-called Covid vaccinations was illegal. In this judgment, the New York Supreme Court claims that this political decision was wrong because it has now been found that these vaccinations, in particular the gene-based Covid shots based on mRNA, did not prevent the transmission of the infection, so the reason why people were fired, in fact, was not justified. It is no coincidence that the New York Supreme Court delivered such a judgment, because here in Europe a very important statement was made from the mouth of Janine Small, the head of the advanced market responsible for Pfizer, who was heard by the European Parliament on vaccines. In response to a question from a Member of the European Parliament, otherwise from the Netherlands, Janine Small stated that these vaccines were never tested at Pfizer to prevent the transmission of the coronal virus infection. There has been quite a scandal at European level, and even in the Council of Europe, because human rights have been violated here, not only workers' rights, when the government here, in Hungary, referred to the need to fire law enforcement workers, health workers and others, for example, because if they do not take this vaccine, if they do not get vaccinated, they risk infecting their colleagues. So once again, it is scientifically proven today, and the information from one of Pfizer's leaders, Janine Small, is that there was no such test, there was no such intention for Pfizer to prevent the transmission of the infection, and today we know precisely that these vaccinations do not prevent the transmission of the infection. On this basis, it was one of the first measures of the new Italian Government, the Meloni government, which was also welcomed by the Fidesz Government, that immediately eliminated the unlawful and human rights violation that was in Italy, so they reinstated those who had been fired simply because they refused to take this particular Covid vaccine. I ask the Hungarian Government when the Hungarian Government wants to take action on this issue, seeing what decisions are being made in Europe, the United States. When would the government finally like to say that the dismissal of those who were dismissed simply for refusing to take Covid vaccines was wrong? Therefore, the Group of the Hungarian Movement will submit a proposal for a resolution to Parliament, and we ask the Government to draw up the detailed rules according to which those who have lost their jobs previously will be given their job again. We know that there is a huge shortage of law enforcement, health care and other similar areas, so it was a crazy step on the part of the government to lose thousands of workers who did their job well, but didn't ask for these Covid shots. So we ask the government to draw up detailed rules for a mechanism that not only puts workers back in their former jobs, but also for those who, for example, have already been retrained, have moved to other areas and do not want to go back to law enforcement or health care, to indemnify them; they could have at least three months' pay for compensation, whether in Western examples, Western suggestions or proposals, which we think would be humane. In this case, we are going to start a petition, and we are going to start collecting signatures online, and we are going to turn to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in this matter, because this is not just about labour law, but, as I said, it is also about human rights violations. We ask the government to compensate those who do not want to return to the area from which they were dismissed; this could be at least three months' compensation. And we are asking the government not to pay this money from taxpayers, not from those who have already suffered damage, but from those who benefit from the Crown Virus to pay these compensations, for example through digital tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-02-6	Thank you very much, Congressman László Toroczkai. On behalf of the Government, Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2022-11-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, It is a rare moment in Parliament when representatives of our country propose the Supreme Court of New York to the Hungarian Parliament as a guide. It seems that you too are selective: if you make certain decisions there, you will certainly reject it, but you will support it. At the same time, I see that on the opposition side, a very dangerous policy has been pursued in the fight against the epidemic. [[11.20]] Our country has just said its anti-vaccination position here in Parliament. If it had been up to them, maybe instead of six shots, it would have been zero, which is available. The left was constantly attacking, even submitting a parliamentary decision to prohibit Eastern vaccines. If it had been up to them, it would have been a slower vaccination programme, and instead of six, Hungarian people would have had only four vaccines to choose from. The Fidesz-KDNP government alone took the view that it had given everyone the opportunity to be vaccinated, and that there were narrower circles that were more involved in the defence, or that kept meeting with others, for whom it was mandatory during a certain period of emergency, and then, when the emergency ended, these extraordinary rules also partially ceased. Honourable Congressman, The nature of the disease or disease differs from other diseases in that while we are generally responsible for our own health, we are responsible for our behaviour during the epidemic not only for our own condition but also for our fellow humans; during the coronal virus epidemic, we are primarily responsible for our parents, grandparents, the elderly or those with chronic chronic diseases whose immune systems are weaker. And not only do we have to consider our own point of view what's important to me, whether I'm sick or not, but also the person next to me, because I don't know that whoever's sitting next to me has a disease that weakens his immune system, because it's not written on anyone's forehead. The fact that someone is old or young is obvious, but whether they have a disease or not, I don't know about it. Wherever I go, wherever life takes me, I can always infect someone. And if I don't want to infect him, I'll keep my distance, I'll wear a mask, and I'll get myself vaccinated so that I don't infect him, because that can happen at any time, and you don't want to live with the burden that if I hadn't passed on that virus, then maybe that person wouldn't have got it either. That's why your position is dangerous. I do not know whether this was done out of conviction or calculated that there is no party in Hungarian politics that is pro-EU and strongly anti-vaccination, and then they wanted to seize this political field. It was your decision, and you know the motives behind it. But I don't think that you can make a responsible decision like your anti-vaccination behavior. Obviously, as I said, who really met a lot of people because they work in health care, many were glad to have the first vaccine, because they couldn't wait and were glad to have it before others, who met with the coronal virus patients every day. And in education or elsewhere, where it is mandatory to go, the child must go in, take it home, and not only to a healthy parent who may be in good health and really get away with it with mild symptoms, but he may take it home to his grandmother or grandpa, who is already in poor health. [[Dr. István Apáti: That was not the question! I didn't get the point!]] Honourable Congressman, You said that self-determination and personality rights, as if we heard a liberal speech from you in this section, but this is about a society, a community. That's why faster protection was important. That is why it was more important that we were able to save the lives of about 3 or 4 thousand people by having Eastern vaccines and giving them more rapid vaccination. And these people weren't infected because we were faster. And it also had other positive consequences that we were able to re-open the country sooner, we were able to re-open the economy sooner. Of course, we also had jobs keepers and other programmes that did not allow our economy to sit down very much, and that is why there was a record high, 7.1 percent economic growth in the last year. No one else was able to open so fast, and we were able to protect jobs and existentials. Obviously, it is very complex to control an epidemic, because individual protection to infect someone else is in an economic situation that makes their situation hopeless, and we still have a lot to consider, and in the long run, a better way than the vaccine, we haven't found much, and I don't think you can say anything else that could have overcome the epidemic. The important thing for us was to fight the plague. We've included the finest scientists in this activity, who didn't share your position. We have consulted all international organisations, whether WHO or any other organisation. The OECD has also rated Hungary's protection against the epidemic as good. These international organisations also confirm that Hungary has been able to defend effectively, and we could not have done so without the vaccines. That is why we are pleased that the plague was one of the world's first, one of the fastest, and the six vaccines were also involved. We regret that we have received no support from anyone on the left, from the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Why is the government selling our protected areas? Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I am not surprised that the dispersal of national wealth still seems to be one of the priorities of the Fidesz government. But what I feel more dangerous than ever is that now they want to sell the country's priceless natural resources, our common natural heritage. In the past, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly slammed your hands on this issue, but it seems that they are not resting, and now a bill has been tabled on behalf of Zsolt Semjén, entitled "Improving the efficiency of the government's management of wealth, trying to dodge the previous Constitutional Court decisions, and their aim is to drive protected areas away without bidding or competition. You are aware that the decision of the Constitutional Court of 1994 provided for the prohibition of withdrawal in environmental and nature conservation matters, stating that the level of protection already achieved cannot be legally reduced. All subsequent Ab decisions on privatisation of protected areas also refer to this 1994 decision and all point in the same direction. Nature conservation is essentially a matter of the state, privateising protected areas at a low price is not in the public interest, even if you are having such a good time. The Fundamental Law, which you have adopted in place of the former Constitution, did not reduce the liability for protected natural assets by making it binding on everyone, i.e. all citizens, authorities and institutions of the state, but by leaving the former State's responsibility unchanged. These Constitutional Court decisions clearly address this, indicating that both the task, the powers and the necessary infrastructure are primarily with the State, although the fact that you have worked for the last 12 years to weaken the institutional system of nature conservation authorities and nature protection has unfortunately been an ongoing attempt to further weaken the authorities. In connection with your government's previous attempts at forest privatisation, there was also a resolution by the Constitutional Court, which said that the state treats the natural and cultural treasures of its national heritage as a kind of trust trustee for future generations as beneficiaries, and as such the right to use and exploit these generations is not unlimited. Furthermore, it was stated that the property of the State and local authorities is national property, the purpose of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, to meet common needs and to safeguard natural resources. I will help you to understand this: all this means that economic interests cannot override the state's responsibility for preserving natural resources. The protected natural areas are in the best place at the state, and if they are there, they don't need to be put anywhere else. I think it is obvious that it does not serve any public interest if the state, whose primary task is to protect these treasures, is now starting to play our protected areas into private hands without competition, much easier than before. And unfortunately, if an area is privately owned, there is already a pen stroke to reduce the level of protection, because it has been allowed for just a few months to be able to cut the head in protected or Natura 2000 private forests, despite the widespread social protest. Perhaps it is no wonder that I recall that they may have done the same trick in connection with this bill, so they sell out the protected areas, then they reduce the level of protection and allow them to be cultivated and plowed. I don't know, by the way, you know when the first Hungarian national park was founded. I'll help you in 1973 on Hortobágy. At that time, it was 52,000 hectares, and now its territory has expanded to about 81,000 hectares. Since then, ten national parks have been established and hold on to each other, and these national parks have also been engaged in the purchase of areas of natural value, so our common money has been spent on this. So not only did they purchase areas home to the most important protected species, but also roads, abandoned mines, perhaps abandoned fields, canal beaches that served as a buffer zone for the precious areas already in existence, i.e. they protect those very valuable areas where there are many protected species. So these are also necessary to ensure that the level of protection already achieved is not reduced, but you now want to decide on the sale in the hope of low income. I don't know, you've noticed that the climate crisis and the Earth-wide wildlife crisis are already threatening our human society so much that the leaders of the world's countries are trying to find a solution to this at global conferences, the next time in December. They need to know that the quality of the soil, the air, the purity of our waters, the appropriate amount of precipitation, humidity, the survival of pollinators and the success of our food production all depend on the state of the surrounding environment, the ecosystem. [[11.30]] And they're in serious danger, so I'd like to say that the Dialogue, if you leave this property law amendment like this, will attack it in the Constitutional Court because we won't let you...
u2022-11-02-10	Thank you...
u2022-11-02-11	... to endanger people's right to a healthy environment. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-02-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. On behalf of the government Sándor Farkas... [[Dr. János Fónagy: Me, Mr. President!]] No, Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer.
u2022-11-02-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am sure that you have been following the ministerial exposé of the property law and following up on the general debate that followed, so I would like to thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to repeat the arguments I made at the time, that the conservation values you have put forward are not in any way violated or threatened by the property law presented by the government. The amendment of the draft law itself was, in our view, necessary because the annexes to certain ministerial decrees on the establishment of national parks in the municipalities affected by nature protect the entire settlement, its internal and external areas, without its actual function. Therefore, I would like to convince you, the Parliament and the public of the country that this amendment does not concern any conservation area which serves a real nature conservation purpose, therefore meadow, pasture, ploughing, reeds. This amendment applies only to land in inland areas excluded from cultivation, namely those where, for example, house-tooths or the construction of sidewalks or other indoor land use may be possible, but also in these cases, guarantee rules for the protection of nature conservation areas must be fully enforced. These warranty terms have already worked, and they will work in this narrow circle. The sale may take place in this very limited area following the acquisition of the position of the Minister of Agriculture or the competent national park directorate, in the case of local protection, the position of the competent municipal authority, subject to the conditions laid down in the legislation and in the relevant judicial judgments. The amendment proposal complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law as it makes the sale of the protected natural area subject to the approval of the body responsible for the conservation management of the area, in order to protect protected natural areas from State property. Approval shall be granted by the body responsible for nature conservation management only if it has been established, in respect of the property concerned, that the maintenance of the protection level of the property can be ensured even after the sale. [[Rebecca Szabó: Then why sell it?!]] and lays down the conditions necessary to ensure the level of protection to be met by the new owner. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] I would like to note here, as I stressed during the Expo, that, in these areas, only ownership is transferred, and the warranty conditions for protecting the area do not change, the new owner is burdened in exactly the same way. In addition, the body responsible for nature conservation management shall enjoy the right of continuous control, the obligation of the owner to report and, in the event of a breach of the conditions of sale, the application of sanctions in sectoral legislation, such as a nature conservation penalty. I believe and believe that all of this does not affect or reduce the level and effectiveness of nature conservation in the case of the sale of land with nature conservation implications. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-14	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, Who protects families? Who protects Hungarian entrepreneurs? Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, asked for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-02-15	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks, the governments of Europe have run a competition on how to support their national businesses, small businesses and micro-enterprises, whereas as Hungarians we find that the assets of these small businesses, but also the wealth, wages and savings of families, are constantly being assessed, and one of the main reasons for this is the brutal run of the Hungarian forints. You can see that in 2010, when you took over the steering wheel, you received the opportunity to strengthen the national economy with a price of around HUF 266, and although you like to refer to the fact that the Hungarian forint's payment force is deteriorating because of the war, the fact is that before the war started, you had to give HUF 367 for a euro, so more than HUF 100 more than the Fidesz government came into power. In the middle of the war period, we see that this exchange rate has climbed to the neighborhood of 410 forints, if any, with a brutal special tax for Hungarian families. This makes children's clothing more expensive, this medicine is more expensive, baby food is more expensive, and basic food is more expensive, so it would be expected that the Government of Hungary will finally do something. What does the Hungarian government do when I press the question as to why they consciously weaken the forint, why did they leave this process, and now when they would intervene, why is this not possible? Then they say that, well, basically, we are talking about the territory of the Hungarian National Bank. After that, I asked the National Bank of Hungary, which said that, well, he does not have an exchange rate target, because the National Assembly did not include in the law on him that he should have an exchange rate target. That is why I would like to solve this problem for you in two directions. On the one hand, we propose to amend the Act on the National Bank of Hungary in order to have an exchange rate target for the central bank, so that no one can say that in the event of a swing outside a certain zone, he does not have an obligation to intervene; the government also acknowledges that this is necessary, as the Hungarian National Bank is now trying only late, badly and inefficiently. Our other proposal is to amend the Fundamental Law, but to preserve the purchasing power of the national currency as a goal, because it affects the national assets, the value of which is regulated by the Fundamental Law itself. Of course, we do not want to put the HUF exchange rate in the laws, as one of the Fidesz MEPs decoded it for himself. The fact is that if such a strong effort appears in the Fundamental Law, then every decision or position taken by the opposite government will be unconstitutional and can be challenged; I would add, even at a later age, because we do not know how long Fidesz governance will be, but it is certain that there will be a change in this structure, it does not matter whether we can defend the Hungarian forint or not. I defend the Hungarian forint against any government, which takes steps against the preservation of the value of the Hungarian forint. And here comes the next proposal from our business package, which is about making a tax change up to once a year. The taxes are high, we can see that the government is constantly and very quickly entering this system, we can see it, but the example of bleeding out the kata proves that it will cause enormous damage if they attempt to bomb such a system in a few weeks. We will therefore submit a proposal to apply tax rules up to once a year. All I would add is that I would like all of these to be favourable to citizens. We have therefore also put a real national consultation question on the Internet, which is to support Hungarian small businesses paying less than the EU average, but, more importantly, in a simpler way. All three pillars of our business package, which I have listed, are therefore very important, but I would ask you not to forget, on this day, the anniversary of our fight for freedom and of our Hungarian brothers in Transcarpathia who are now sacrificing their blood in another war, typically with the intention of protecting their families. I therefore ask you to remember with silent standing the Hungarian brothers in Transcarpathia and the victims of the depressed revolution that we must remember these days. Thank you. [[The members of the meeting shall stand up for a short period of time.]] Thank you.
u2022-11-02-16	Thank you very much. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond to the speech before the agenda. [[11.40]]
u2022-11-02-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Five minutes is not suitable for answering the questions raised by you, but allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the government in the Fundamental Law has regulated a fundamental issue such as sovereign debt. Therefore, the need for fundamental legislation on large, comprehensive economic policy issues affecting society as a whole has not been contested by the government and, where it considered it necessary, initiated and implemented. At the same time, however, his suggestion gives me the opportunity to talk about what, in addition to the big, comprehensive issues, the government has tried to support the Hungarian population and the functioning, existence and survival of Hungarian businesses in this really difficult situation. That the increase in energy prices affects all European countries, not only Hungary, Mr President knows exactly, and I believe he does not dispute it. In which Hungary deviates from European practice, it is that Hungary continues to protect the Hungarian population against outstanding costs by reducing its costs. It continues to ensure the reduction of the rent for all Hungarian households up to the average consumption, and above all, not the real market price, but the payment of the very discounted retail market price. The government pays a significant portion of the family's rent, which means a monthly HUF 181 thousand subsidy to every Hungarian family and pensioner. At the European Union summit, the Hungarian Prime Minister has achieved that Hungary will be exempted from sanctions, thereby preserving Hungary's secure gas supply. So far, the government has helped families with six things: reduced prices, firewood, brown coal, gas stop, food stop and interest stop. This year there was a total of HUF 1127 billion left for families in the form of tax benefits and income tax refunds, we paid the 13th month pension, we paid the inflation pension supplement, and we paid the pension premium at the end of the year. The tax exemption for young people under the age of 25 is valid and remains valid, the petrol stop and the food stop will be extended until 31 December and the interest stop extended and extended until 30 June 2023. As long as the energy prices in Europe are high, I believe that there will be price stops in Hungary. We help not only families, but also the entrepreneurial sector, in the framework of the fight against sanctioned inflation. We provide energy support to energy intensive small and medium-sized enterprises, extend the interest rate stop to small and medium-sized enterprises from 11 November, extend the credit programme for Széchenyi Card, and launch a factory rescue programme for the big ones. Unfortunately, in addition to the positive measures taken by the government, I have to mention that the left shows the opposite movement both internally and abroad, abolishing the reduction of the rent, and dropping market prices on Hungarian families. As a reminder to the public: in the previous campaign, the Prime Minister-designate of the Hungarian Left degraded the reduction of the rent in many respects, the left-wing leader called it stupid, and the pricestops were considered a pretense measure. I am convinced that our programmes to support Hungarian families and businesses should be maintained and that the current practice should continue. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-18	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Mr Lajos Löcsei, representative of the Momentum, asked to speak before the agenda on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I am very pleased that more people are present in Parliament now than last week, because in the most important legislative debate of this term, the government only represented itself with State Secretarys. Right now, during an ever-increasing livelihood crisis, you are revoking the right to social security in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, We will help you, we will not leave anyone on the side of the road this was a good-sounding promise, but it wasn't true even when it was said, and now it's not when more and more families are having trouble at the end of the month shopping, paying bills and paying the Fidesz premium. Right now, in times of skyrocketing prices and the debt crisis, you leave your countrymen in trouble. Let us say the truth: as winter approaches, more and more people are affected by the livelihood crisis, not only the poor Roma or the poorest, but also the middle class. Our countrymen's security of life is growing, especially for those who live in small towns and small towns in the countryside. Now as the heating season approaches, it turns out that those who do not use gas for heating and hot water do not get an extra electricity quota. However, you promised this, which is why I presented a proposal for a decision to increase the subsidised amount of electricity use at the beginning of October. It is estimated that nearly 1.5 million people live in households without natural gas connection and district heating. Right now, as winter approaches, you leave the Hungarian families alone with their livelihood problems. As early as last autumn, inflation started, for example, compared to last autumn's price level, only the price of bread increased by more than 70 percent. This is Fidesz High, a result of lying, irresponsible government. There is no such increase or national currency deterioration anywhere in the surrounding countries. But the government of billionaires doesn't care. There have never been so many billionaires in our country's government. [[Eszter Vítalos: Just the other side! Bence Rétvári: And in the shadow government!]] In recent years, you deliberately weakened the forint, thereby inflating it, devaluing the Hungarian people's earnings, wealth and savings. Now, when the forints, inflation and overhead costs are on the loose, they continue to lie, fellow Members, they are blaming everything on sanctions. Your lie bomb for billions is about pushing away responsibility for the ever deeper crisis, avoiding, bustling, making enemy photos, because they know that more and more people in Hungary are getting angry. Instead of agreeing to draw EU funds, the EU's policy is being abused for billions [[Bence Rétvári: You should have voted here in Parliament!]] The policy you are part of, my fellow Members of the Fidesz. The government also abandons the municipalities, even though the municipalities could best help, as the municipalities are able to judge the need for it from the next time, but they also bled out the small municipalities when they were already excluded from the relief in the summer. However, they could help, because the central budget has already received over a thousand billion dollars in VAT and other extra tax revenues from extraordinary inflation. If only half of the extra revenues were returned to the municipalities, mainly by increasing the social normative nature, the most pressing social problems could already be solved. [[11.50]] Why don't you do that, fellow Members? A true friend gets to know you in trouble. With this law, the Orbán government admits to leaving an ever-expanding circle of people in need on the side of the road. This is unacceptable, fellow Members, which is why we demand that before winter comes, the government and Parliament decide on a package of measures to alleviate the livelihood crisis, take into account the proposals of municipal associations of interests, trade unions and opponents. If you really want to serve and represent the Hungarian people, then at this week's government meeting a decision will be taken on the measures to deal with the livelihood crisis and, moreover, a new kind of dialogue for all those to whom you have sworn to represent, fellow Members. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-11-02-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Louis Löcsei. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Fürjes will answer.
u2022-11-02-21	[[The sound's not working.]] Cannot read card... Looks like it's a good time; I'm sorry, it was my fault. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, As an idealist, I always look for the points of agreement. It is very difficult to find out what I can agree with in your speech. Perhaps the only thing he hasn't said so, but I try to include it: so it is important that people in everyday life face a lot of difficulties in terms of the war situation, in terms of war inflation, sanctions policy and the economic and social difficulties that are characteristic of Europe as a whole. And what I think is very important is that, regardless of the positions of the government, we have an empathy and understanding that, yes, the lives of many are difficult, even if everyone has been able to make one or two or three or four steps forward in the last 12 years, and I am now looking at any economic and social indicator of people's situation, the situation of poverty in Hungary is much better than 12 years ago, when the left has governed and almost bankrupted the country. It's hard to expect you to be factual when you've been working with Gyurcs for years. The Momentum came into Hungarian politics as an anti-Gyurcsány left party, and then they became collaborators of Gyurcsány. They could never get into Parliament on their own; they asked for the list of Gyurcsány, and obviously they could not get out of this alliance. I'm telling you this, believe me, because I'm very tired of being a gypsy myself, but there's nothing else on the left. So as long as Gyurcsány dictates, we must point out this connection. I wish we could leave the ring, we'd love to have you quit the Gyurcsány Collaboration. [[Zsolt Gréczy constantly intervenes.]] This is important in relation to your contribution, because obviously this commitment to Gyurcsány and DK, to the socialists, to the old left, does not allow you to be factual. Because if you were factual, you'd tell us in your comment when you whip us how much worse things were under left-wing governments. [[Intercom from DK's benches: It was better!]] ; how unemployment has increased under the governments of Gyurcsány and the Socialists, how hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost in Hungary; how unemployment has fallen under the Orbán governments, almost all employment has been achieved; how the cost of public utility costs, electricity and gas has been highest in Hungary under the governments of Gyurcsány and the socialists, and how these prices have been reduced, including by the reduction of costs that you have never voted for, and have always been called foolish; how wages have increased in Hungary, and how pensions have increased, pensions from which the Gyurcsány government, your socialists, your allies have taken away from Hungarians and what we are constantly increasing. What do we do to protect people? I can only list it in inventory right now. We introduced a petrol stop: every gas tank saves 10-12 thousand forints for every Hungarian family. You attacked this, too. In order to curb food inflation, we have introduced a food price stop, mainly limiting the price of basic foods that are consumed by the most vulnerable layers, and we are thinking about extending them. We put in a interest stop; we support the interest rates of small and medium-sized enterprises, we put in a interest stop there as well; and we defended the reduction in rent, we support every Hungarian family with HUF 181 thousand per month. And I know you're questioning everything that we're saying, but then my request is that you are generally impressed with international institutions, believe the institutions of Eurostat. Eurostat's latest report shows that gas prices have decreased in Hungary alone and that gas and electricity costs are by far the lowest in Europe. The public pays the least we can do. Please pay attention to the facts. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-22	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Mr Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, asked to speak before the agenda with a title on current issues. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was sent here by the Hungarians who have lost over the past decades. I represent primarily those who are now able to put less and less things in their shopping carts, less and less often turn on the lights in cold homes. And the Fidesz government forcefully squeezes taxes out of them, such as the 27 percent record tax. Do you really think you're running this country so well that we have to give you that kind of money? Then why aren't our teachers getting paid? According to Albert Szent-Györgyi, the future will be like today's school. If this is true of your government, then our future is dark, unheated, crumbling, driven and intimidated by subjects. The NER reserves the privilege of quality education only for its own children, the children of the solvent aristocrats; the rest of the class from low-cost public education to the factory workbench, to live a chained and vulnerable life. This is not a word flower, my fellow Members, the government so proud of its industrial investments does not tell you how the Hungarian worker is literally tied to the assembly line with an electric shepherd; how the clock stops when he goes to the bathroom; how the Hungarian worker gets kidney disease, lung disease and cancer; Hungarian women and men work under conditions that may be in South Asia. From here, the education could be interrupted, but Viktor Orbán spends on everything other than Hungarian schools and teachers. Over the last few weeks, tens of thousands of teachers, students and parents have sent you a clear message on the street that they do not agree with the abuse of the teachers' rights, the poor state of education, the pay of teachers who do not provide decent living. I can't see into the minds of fidesz politicians; I don't know what's driving you when you're insane at our schools and you're embarrassing us, you're firing our teachers. I would like to believe that for some reason they do not know what they are doing, so I would say to you five things that should be done immediately in order to avoid national tragedy, the collapse of education and the collapse of the country with it. 1. Raise our teachers' wages immediately and in substance. If inflation is 20 percent, then we start from here, and it's zero, i.e. they didn't give us anything; if they gave us 20, they still didn't give us anything. Understand: there will be no teachers if you earn double as a cashier in the corner store or as a waiter in Austria. 2. Let's finally make a real career model for teachers, not the current lying system, which only lists obligations and increases vulnerability. Real training, advanced, dynamically increasing benefits and much more rest periods should be provided. You have to understand: we won't have teachers if they look for multiples as HR of a multi-company. [[12.00]] 3. Include them in the formation of the National Basics Plan and free up the textbook market. Several generations have gone through the system of public education who only know the world of Rose Hoffmann. Understand, there will be no teachers if they take away the freedom of teaching. 4. Restore the teachers' right to strike. I come from the world of industrial trade unions, where we work hard for the employer: if you don't understand the word, we stop the machines. It's amazing that the state forbids teachers from exercising their most fundamental rights, the right to strike. Understand: there will be no teachers if they are left with nothing but resignation instead of a strike. 5. Apologize publicly for the past 12 years, but especially for the lies about the last few months, about a decent wage increase, about the ugly remarks made by their parolees attacking teachers and schoolgirls, about the firings. Apologize! Let's start a dialogue, save what's salvageable. Ladies and gentlemen, We've been dealing with a crisis we haven't seen in decades: an epidemic, a war, an energy crisis. Hungarians are faced with terrible price increases, increasing uncertainty, and the number of losers is increasing. They can't treat our teachers this way in peace and prosperity. But here and now, it's not a crime to agree what they're doing to the nation. Let's do it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-02-24	Thank you, Congressman Imre Komjathi. Bence Rétvári, Deputy Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said.
u2022-11-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the beginning, you were talking about who you represent here in Parliament. A few days ago, he said an interesting sentence about this, not about who they represent, but about how many people they represent, he said that the question was not whether there would ever be a 30 percent People's Party, but whether there would ever be one. [[Imre Komjathi: Will be!]] This is, therefore, the current state of the Hungarian Socialist Party on the brink of being and not being. And it is not necessarily from the outside that you should look for the cause, honourable Member, that it may be within, half inside, half outside, half within the Socialist Party, and half in the person of their former President, Ferenc Gyurcsány. You talked about what to do and what to refrain from in a difficult situation. There has been a difficult situation in Hungary, this was the time when, although you are talking about social security here, a month's pension was taken from pensioners. Did this serve social security when you took a month's pension from pensioners? You know, they could have introduced a reduction in their own time, but they haven't done it, and since we introduced it, they've been doing nothing but attacking and attacking for ten years: we need market conditions, people need to be allowed market prices, stupidity, the laws of the market have to rule. In different directions, they only attacked the reduction of the overhead, which is now a HUF 181 thousand grant for every family with average consumption. Now we can really see how much this was necessary. And you don't find yourself in such a difficult social situation, in a difficult social situation all over the world, but in any case in Europe, a country that still receives energy at 25 percent lower than the average consumption in 2013, and countries much richer than us do not allow it. We did it and maintained it. Did it serve or serve the sense of security of the people in the difficult social situation, what you did when you took a month's wages from doctors, nurses, policemen, teachers, social workers? Is it really the solution to a social crisis that social workers' wages are reduced by 8 percent? Because that's what you did. You say that it was very high that VAT increased by 2 percent during our 12-year government, when you raised 5 percent on VAT in 2006 with a pen stroke; the five-year tax reduction programme was announced, the end of which was a 5% increase in VAT. You have taken a number of products out of a reduced VAT base, honourable Member. We inherited a debt of HUF 1300 billion with the municipalities in 2010, which you produced there, because the tasks were increased and the funding was reduced. The family tax relief has been lifted. Indeed, according to you, the crisis was done... even in the time before the crisis, because it was done between 2002 and 2004, when there was no crisis when family tax relief was taken from people. You said literally that the textbook market should be freed. There's the old Social Democratic symbol on his jacket, the working man with the hammer, and while there's this symbol, you're talking about freeing the market. It is difficult for me to unite these two, so the old social democrat state has a lot to say, and then talks about freeing the market in the speech. So this image in itself, what we see and what we hear, is already against it. But not only can we see and hear it, but we have also experienced it, because you have already done so, you have already experimented in Hungary. Do you know what this market release meant, what percentage increase in eight years? There was a 70 percent increase in market liberation, which you are now demanding as a work movement symbol here in Parliament today. The tuition has helped during your administration [[Zsolt Gréczy: There is tuition now!]] To put those who are having a hard time in a better position? Or the visit fee? The hospital allowance? Do you think they've all overcome or deepened the social crisis? The fact that hundreds of thousands of families have been in the situation because of foreign exchange loans, that they may not have a flat: it was not about the extent to which CSOK can help families move to a new apartment, or what the baby shower can be used for now, by which time it is not possible, or what the tax exemption and other housing renovation and expansion subsidies are good for, but the question was that in the case of foreign exchange loans, the roof over people's heads would be in the order of hundreds of thousands. You can speak nice words, but the principles that you have said, and the past behind the past thirty years of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I wouldn't go away for 90 years, just for the last thirty years, that's all it's brought, the IMF and the austerity. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We can also protect it to the greatest extent in Hungary, even in the energy crisis. [[The president's ringing again.]] Exactly the most deprived people from the runaway energy prices. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-26	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Mr Lajos Oláh, representative of DK, asked for an address before the agenda entitled Current Affairs. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2022-11-02-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I see there is a very serious competition between government responders who will be most praised by the boss, how many times he said Gyurcsány's name. [[Bence Rétvári: I've got one already!]] Because you are unable to answer the questions asked, but a Gyurcsány is a red dot [[Bence Rétvári: Two!]] Dobrev Klára, Shadow Government, that's Bear cheese; and if they still say Gyurchanne, [[Bence Rétvári: Three! Eszter Battalion: 25 seconds!]] And then they get a bunny ear as a gift. [[Bence Rétvári: You say it more often than we do!]] Because that's all you can answer because you don't have an answer for Hungary because you did this, you created it, and you can't fix it, because you're the cause of trouble. When they talk about war inflation, it's inflation in Orbán. Because how is it that, in countries neighbouring the war Ukraine, Romania, Poland and Slovakia, half the size of respected government members, food inflation, as you call it war inflation? You say that the sanction is the cause of everything, and this is Brussels. Let me read to Viktor Orbán, and I quote to you that if I get a red dot, too, there is a war, and now we have to be not smart, but united. So what sanctions EU countries agree on, we will support. All contrary news is disinformation. I would be delighted if someone could finally say bravely that there is no man at the table called Mr. Brussels when they vote on sanctions. It's like Mr. Orbán, and he voted in favour of the sanctions, all of them. So don't point the finger at Brussels. Or a silent coup is about to happen, and you want to overthrow the Prime Minister, but you're just not brave enough, and that requires a consultation when you're talking about the sanctions in Brussels. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Csaba Dömör holds his head.]] You can hold someone's head, but I'm curious how you respond, Mr. Secretary of State, to Orbán's sentence. You say that the left is agitating against Brussels. [[Bence Rétvári: No! That's not what we said! Eszter Vítalos: We never said that!]] 25 October 2006, EPP Group meeting: Viktor Orbán asked the members of the EPP to refuse EU assistance. Viktor Orbán was personally the one who opposed Hungary's EU funding. I'm looking forward to your opinion on that. Hungary is in trouble, and there is nothing you can do about it. Plus, they keep kicking local governments. At the time of Covid, they refused to cooperate, withheld information. As regards Elizabeth and Terézváros, I asked several times how many people lost their jobs, how many were vaccinated, what vaccinations, how many died, so that the municipalities could help the residents in some way. [[12.10]] You have refused to provide information, even though I have repeatedly asked for it, and you are also making new financial withdrawals. But it wasn't enough. You guys keep going. Dear Government, I would expect the answer after three milleries on how it is compatible with a democratic state that state-owned MVM is giving energy to the opposition Szentendre for the multiple times compared to the Fidesz Debrecen. To be precise: Debrecen gets it for HUF 798, Szentendre gets it for HUF 2641; the price was increased 26 times at Szentendre's. [[Sic!]] I wonder what Minister Navracsics and his team can say when they negotiate in Brussels for money. We have to be careful not to feel sorry for him for the almost impossible mission he's trying to explain. But that's not enough when they hit the municipalities, they plan to take away the clinics during the crisis, and they also want to exclude them from the organisation of the general medical system. How much better it would be if they were more like the nine hundred and fifteen [[Sic!]] They'd care about a citizen who doesn't have a home doctor right now. In this way, we also try to help those who are in trouble in opposition. [[Bence Rétvári: Oh, oh!]] Klára Dobrev, prime minister of the shadow government, is constantly negotiating with trade unions, civilians, municipalities. We're trying to help you in trouble! This is the purpose of the regime fund announced by DK. We ask those who can help us, because the government can't; they can't do anything but misrepresentation, hammering, drumming. Dear Answerer, I wonder how Minister Navracsics feels about Fidesz municipalities paying much less for the same electricity? How do you feel about the government keeping the data from the municipalities on a regular basis? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-02-28	Thank you very much, Vice President Lajos Oláh. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2022-11-02-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The logical contradiction of referring to Klára Dobrev's name at the same time and asking us to account for why we mention Klára Dobrev's shadow government or his policy, I cannot resolve that. We understand if you're disturbed by the name of your party president. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: I don't care!]] I'd like to assure you that no one gets a red dot or bunny ear if you mention your name. But the country would get an economic vibe if he was Prime Minister again. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Let us agree that we do not ask you to pronounce Viktor Orbán's name here in this House, nor do you dispute the right to express your opinion from those who believe that left-wing economic policy is not a good solution to the problems and challenges of the country. As far as sanctions are concerned, let's look at them in a timely manner. It began with the fact that there was an agreement in the days before the election that sanctions did not cover the energy sector at all. This was the agreement, and the German Chancellor also argued. Then they changed this policy so much that, from 3 June onwards, they wanted to continue to expand it from the decision on the oil embargo. [[Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted in favour! Intercoms in DK's benches.]] And contrary to your statement, the Hungarian Prime Minister did not vote for them, but made it impossible for the oil embargo to apply to us. You made it a few days ago that the gas cap didn't apply to us. [[Intercoms from the DK benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] He has achieved that if there is a joint acquisition, it is an obligation for us to be only voluntary. So the Hungarian Prime Minister has just achieved that if such decisions are made, it should not apply to us, so that it does not put us in a negative position. And you know that very well, despite that, you're running a misleading campaign. With regard to the situation of municipalities: the current sanctions policy has brought huge energy increases, and the burden of this has to be borne and borne not only by the municipalities, but by all families, by all European families. [[Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted in favour!]] We want to help you in this situation. But if you want to do something, let the government support us in forcing a change of direction in Brussels policy. As far as concrete economic measures are concerned, it has not just come to light, but it has been revealed in recent months that the economic approach of the government and opposition parties is separated by a world. Allow me to give you some examples. In this situation, the government also provides an average of HUF 181 thousand in overhead support to all families. On the other hand, the left would abolish the premium. Nonsense, rustling, that's what you call it. And you have an economic shadow minister, and here's the thing: your economic minister would also wipe out the gas stop; he would have done it by the end of summer. Only by doing so would he have taken tens of thousands of forints out of the pockets of Hungarian families. Then: the government also considers it important that there be a change in sanctions policy, which I have already talked about. Not only do you not help us in this fight, but at the beginning of the war, you suggested that we turn off the gas taps. Then we would not be arguing about how the price of gas would turn out if we did this, but would not have enough gas in Hungary. The government also considers it important to be able to protect jobs and even create new jobs in this exceptional situation. That is why we are linking a large part of state aid to the maintenance or creation of jobs. The opposition, on the other hand, would loosen the basic principles of a work-based society, thus proposing subsidies that are not tied to work. We have seen the result of this before 2010: 12 percent unemployment. There's no way around the tax issue either. The government insists on keeping the key to personal income tax and the key to corporate tax as low as possible in the exceptional situation. On the other hand, the opposition would make personal income tax more multi-key and raise corporate tax. Under these circumstances, it is no coincidence that they also support the global minimum tax. It is a striking fact that opposition parties have submitted a package of tax lifting amendments worth more than HUF 3000 billion to the budget. And to mention one more difference, you mentioned this: the government is doing everything it can to ensure that EU funds serve economic growth as soon as possible. What have you done? They have openly campaigned in Brussels to ensure that we do not receive these funds. At home, the government is called to account, and if it is a vote, then they will not vote for the amendments that are needed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think it's because of this policy that the decision was made on April 3rd. I'm sorry they didn't change anything about that policy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-30	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. A speech before the agenda entitled common sense and peace is needed, has been submitted by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government has been stressing for months that sanctions policy is a failure and an urgent review is needed. We will not help Ukraine if Europe fails; this is not a smart help. The events of the last eight months have demonstrated that Brussels has a pro-sanctioned policy [[Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted in favour! The president's ringing the bell.]] Plays a kind of geopolitical gambling in which you place your bets on behalf of Europeans, without, of course, asking or agreeing to. Russia seems to be thanking you, well, but the inflation, energy and food price rises that have been experienced for months have ruined the economies of the EU countries. The European citizens are clearly suffering the sanctions in Brussels, as they have to pay the rising energy prices and the cost of living. Due to sanctions for inflation and skyrocketing energy prices, fear and anxiety fill people's daily lives. By exerting the power of the Hungarian government, it seeks to alleviate the damage caused by sanctions in Brussels, to accept rescue packages to avoid the mass shutdown of factories, to save small and medium-sized enterprises and to help people. Vice-President Jourová said that linking EU funds with the rule of law is necessary, blackmailing Member States who do not like it. This thinking is ideologically driven and contrary to EU treaties. The future ideological effort of Brussels to make EU assistance conditional on compliance with the rule of law principles is totally unacceptable. Of course, what is to be understood as a violation of the rule of law is not legally defined. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Each Member State should be given the conditions for a fair trial, while linking EU payments with compliance with democratic principles. [[12.20]] EU funds are not fair donations, these funds are due to Hungarian people. In September, at the International Forum in Austria, Minister Judit Varga stressed that the EU was hit by a crisis of confidence and that the way forward was not more, but a smarter European Union. It is essential to improve the quality of cooperation between Member States in order to ensure peace and economic stability as soon as possible. We do not need to engage in artificially generated ideological debates, but we need to create economic stability for the citizens of Europe, which determines their daily lives, and that is what they expect us to do. Ladies and gentlemen, It is time for the European Union to finally address the purpose it has been set up. This is that it is able to bring its Member States together, jointly and effectively to pursue their political and economic interests in a constantly accelerating globalised world. This, of course, requires that the bureaucrats in Brussels finally hear and take into account the voice of the European people. The Hungarian government knows precisely that in a democracy people's opinions matter, which is why national consultation is of paramount importance, since in matters affecting Hungary's future in the long term, the government asks people. The sanctions were originally about [[Zsolt Gréczy and Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted for it!]] How to end the war quickly and punish Russia for starting a war. Brussels came up with a plan to dig a hole for the Russians, but then Europe fell into this pit. The Union now says that we should dig this hole and keep digging, but the Hungarians want us to try and do everything we can to get out of this pit. That is why the national consultation is important for everyone to realise that we are all in danger. However, due to the enormous opposition and pressure in Brussels, the government needs a strong mandate at both European and international level to maintain a strong representation of the Hungarian position. Brussels bureaucrats and Western liberals must finally understand: economic stability and non-artificial ideological disputes are needed, because only and only this can lead to lasting peace. We, Christian Democrats, want a community based on strong nation states that cooperates in the spirit of mutual respect and not a Europe over a centralised nation states that have lost their sovereignty. We have to trust that common sense will rise and that the public in favour of the ceasefire and peace talks will triumph throughout Europe, and that Hungarians' common sense will convince others. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert will answer.
u2022-11-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, listening to the statements of opposition representatives, I urge you, on behalf of the government, to participate in national consultations, to give your views, as many as possible, to fill out a questionnaire for the national consultation. In order to pay the EU funds to Hungary and the Hungarian people, including the resources to restore the economic damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the European Commission has imposed a precondition for remedying the concerns underlying the so-called rule of law conditioning procedure. An agreement was reached with the European Commission on 18 September in the Conditional Procedure, when the Brussels Panel decided that, together with the commitments made in 17 corrective actions that resulted from intensive negotiations and close cooperation during the summer, the Commission could address all its concerns. In accordance with the agreement concluded with the Commission, the proceeding should be terminated in the event of full implementation of the commitments because of its lack of grounds. In the conditioning procedure, the Member States also voted in confidence in Hungary, and on 13 October the justice ministers approved Hungary's request, supported by the European Commission, to extend the one-month deadline for decision-making until 19 December. On 19 November, there will be a crucial deadline for this procedure, so far the Commission has asked Hungary to report on the implementation of its commitments. This is the day when, under the Law on the control of the use of EU budget resources adopted by Parliament, the Integrity Authority must start operating. We regret that the opposition has even debated the adoption of laws to ensure the implementation of the commitments which the European Commission considers appropriate. The opposition has thus demonstrated that it is working against the government not to obtain EU funds, but to impose sanctions on Hungary. Since they are working on sanctioning the Hungarian people, we continue to ask the opposition to reflect on the philosophy of Ferenc Deák: I can love this country more than hate our enemies. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear House, The Government has also fulfilled its commitments outside the scope of the legislation in accordance with the timetable agreed with the Commission and is constantly working towards full fulfilment of the commitments due up to subsequent deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What the government has undertaken has been fulfilled, but there are still ongoing discussions with the European Commission, because following the decision of 18 September, the Brussels body has also made a number of new demands that go far beyond the agreement. In its interim report adopted by the European Parliament on 15 September, in the rule of law proceeding against Hungary under Article 7, the European Parliament essentially called on the European Commission to refrain from approving or paying the funds due to Hungary as long as there is any risk of rule of law. On the day preceding that deadline of 19 November, on 18 November, Hungary will be heard again. This will be the fifth hearing to raise the mood against Hungary in an ideological process launched by the European Parliament more than four years ago. Therefore, no one should doubt, even the significant domestic progress in the rule of law conditioning process will not be enough to allow the mainstream European left to close this political procedure against our country due to ideological disputes. In addition to full compliance with our commitments in the conditionality procedure, the government is also conducting intensive negotiations with the European Commission to finalise the so-called recovery and resilience plan, with the aim of approving it by the end of the year, following the approval by the Commission, so that together with cohesion funds, we can close this year without loss of resources. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-34	Thank you, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Mr Róbert Zsigó, Member of the Council, Fidesz, also applied to speak before the agenda on the topic of our current affairs.
u2022-11-02-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The war has been going on for over eight months in neighboring Ukraine, our position has remained unchanged from the beginning: we want peace, the early start of peace negotiations, and all other scenarios require further human sacrifice. Hungary grants all support to people fleeing the war. We owe thanks to those who have participated in the care and coordination of refugees in recent months, who have donated or raised donations to those concerned, one of the greatest humanitarian actions in the history of our country is still taking place today. We support any initiative that will help Ukraine peacefully, because the sooner there will be peace, the fewer victims and fewer people will have to leave their country. Dear Parliament, According to a recent research, 92 percent of Hungarians have been on the side of peace from the beginning, and this position is strengthened in France and Germany, and we expect that this voice will be strengthened in other European countries as well. There is also a position that the war must go through, and one of the parties must win. However, we do not support this because this would mean a long war. Brussels uses sanctions to put pressure on Russia, but there is one thing that was wrong to do. [[Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted in favour! Viktor Orbán voted for it!]] Brussels has promised that sanctions will bring Russia to its knees and put an end to the war. [[12.30]] Compared to this, since the introduction of sanctions, inflation has flown across the continent, Europeans have become poorer, Europe is under threat of crisis and energy shortages, energy prices have skyrocketed and war is going on. In comparison, the price of gas increased by 88 per cent in one month with Estonians, and the price of the gas increased by 47 per cent in September. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Hungarians remain the most protected from the rise in energy prices in Europe. Even with the changes in August, the Hungarian population pays a fraction of the rent as residents of other European countries. The sanctions have made Europe poorer and Russia richer. So we can say that this weapon backfired, with sanctions, Europe shot itself in the leg. [[Interventions from opposition lines, including Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted in favour. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is not what Brussels promised when the sanctions were introduced. Dear House, Not only the price of energy, but also its quantity is a problem. Overall, there is less energy and less gas coming into the EU than annual consumption today. Europe is trying to replace the losses with American liquefied gas, but it also has physical limitations, and as the French President Macron pointed out, it is four times as expensive to give us this kind of gas as they can buy it at home. You can see that everyone is trying to take advantage of Europe's tight spot. It does not apply to Hungary that there is less gas than is necessary, because we have concluded long-term contracts that guarantee that Hungary's gas supply will be fine. However, this is not a natural, self-evident thing, but a result of hard work. Ferenc Gyurcsány's shadow government wouldn't be in the corner if it were up to them. They would have unleashed energy prices on Hungarian people, as they did during their government. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] In addition, the programme of their Prime Minister's candidate has also been exhausted in the sense that the reduction in overhead costs is foolish and, I quote, that less water should be used, less electricity should be used, less gas should be used. Their shadow-energy minister, László Varju, just last week complained that Hungary does not want the gas cap in Europe. With this, the Gyurcsányek once again made it clear that they really do not represent the interests of the Hungarians, even if the Hungarians are left without gas. We also know, of course, why they do this: they are paid for precisely such statements from abroad. Dear House, Without Russian gas, Hungarian families, businesses and the economy would be ruined. At the EU summit Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has achieved a new exemption from sanctions for Hungary and thus preserves Hungary's secure gas supply. We protect the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Zsigó. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2022-11-02-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hungary's economic prospects have two very important impacts in these months: one is the fact of war, and the other is the economic decisions that are being made in Brussels in a war situation. It is worth looking at how the penalty debate is now. Unfortunately, there is no evidence of a change of direction despite the fact that economic damage can already be demonstrated. Three examples are: in Germany there are signs of stagnation and economic stagnation, economic performance has already decreased in four EU Member States compared to the previous quarter, and according to the International Monetary Fund, the estimated growth for next year will be barely higher than zero. In Brussels, as if nothing had happened, they were pushing for the same approach. At the last high-level EU summits, for example, gas market sanctions are on the table. So much for whether it is worth asking about this issue in the consultation. There are three proposals on the table that should be dealt with with with strong reservations and distance. First of all, let's look at the price cap. It is not impossible that the initial objective here is to set some limit on price increases, but here it is not the initial objective and wording that counts, but the consequences. In view of Europe's current supply situation, a gas cap would result in Russia shutting off gas taps nicely, as has already been envisaged. If this happens, prices will not be lower, but higher, not to mention envelopable supply disruptions. So what they're pushing is a gas embargo, but it comes in a Halloween costume with a gas cap. Then, secondly, there is a plan that would coordinate European gas procurement. At first glance, this may sound nice, but, well, we have experience of this, namely, the purchase of vaccines. There was also the argument that if the European Commission negotiates on behalf of all the Member States, it will be more favourable. It was subsequently found that European citizens, EU citizens, paid more for vaccines than nationals of some other countries. So, unfortunately, in such proposals, it cannot be excluded that business interests are in an area where they have no place to be, and we have not yet talked about attempts to influence other major economic powers. The third thrust of the proposals is also about a so-called solidarity mechanism. Who doesn't want solidarity, especially at a time like this! But what is it about? A mandatory procedure to take a certain quantity of gas and to give it to other countries. We have long-term contracts, we have additional agreements, but we could be in a position to take away a certain amount of gas from us and give it to other countries, in the name of solidarity. It's not fair, and it's certainly not in solidarity. So, behind these nice-sounding proposals, there are often plans that are not a solution for us, but new problems. That is why it is important, and I would like to draw the attention of Mr Arató here, specifically, to the fact that the Prime Minister has fought out of the gas cap, and we do not have to participate in the joint procurement if we do not want to, as he fought immunity from the oil embargo in June. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He fought for immunity, not for it. The gas market situation will be at the heart of European economic policy in the coming months. Do not be fooled by the fact that in recent weeks gas prices may have seemed to show a sustained downward trend. A significant part of the gas coming into storage was tied up in summer at a higher price, while the containers filled and filled nicely. When the cold season begins to empty the containers, when it will be possible to recharge gas into the containers, the demand for new growth will be a new race and expected to rise again at higher prices. For this reason, therefore, there is a need for a change of direction in Brussels' economic and sanctions policy. The sooner this happens, the sooner we can get back to normal. The government will try to make sure that happens as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-38	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr András Aradszki to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-11-02-39	Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, Fidesz; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Péter Jakab, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Zoltán Varga, DK; Dócs, Dávid, Mi Hazank; Lajos Löcsei, Momentum; András Fekete-Győr, Momentum; Péter Balassa, Jobbik.
u2022-11-02-40	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:39 p.m., we'll begin questioning. Zoltán Komáromi, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question about the new health concept? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi has the floor. [[12.40]]
u2022-11-02-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, The new health concept is ready, and if you can believe some of the government's experts, then at the end of October, the government agreed to it in the first round. We do not know any more specifics, because we have not seen a presentation or a document published in the Hungarian Gazette. I'm actually just saying this as a courtesy, because it wasn't made at all before, but calling this 96-page draft a concept is an exaggeration, which with the best of intentions can only be called a thoughtless, hasty, dilettious dictatorship. I would like to highlight two things from this. One is the elimination of free medical choice. This has proved to be a good idea for obstetrics, and it has certainly put the door to family-friendly obstetrics, and the obstetrics in two county hospitals and one in Budapest have been impossible. And the other, which is a little more important, is the nationalisation of self-employed clinics on 1 January, with which the government withdraws 10-15 billion aids from the system in a single motion. This is how the municipalities support their own clinics every year, which are now being melted into county hospitals, and the employees are being transferred to the county hospital. That's what they're talking about. they will be subject to law and be governed by law. It was removed from the law two years ago to protest the Chamber, but now it is put back; it is an elegant solution. The decision, if any, was made in a completely blind fashion. Despite the promise of the State Secretary for Health, no capacity assessment was carried out, neither the municipalities, the institutions nor the professional organisations were sought. As the shadow minister of health, I ask you that you should not discuss such drafts with professionals who have not only spoken to a specialist as a patient and have seen an office from the inside. Or it may be true in the public opinion that these measures are owned by the more and more disabled public supply of NER knights [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Are they directing patients into private care? Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-11-02-42	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Komáromi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-11-02-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister of Shadows, Dear House, In recent years, we have tried to increase health spending to a greater extent, even beyond GDP, so we have increased health resources in Hungary from HUF 1198 billion to HUF 2669 billion. The increase is HUF 1471 billion. The amount of health resources will continue to increase next year. One of the main factors in recent years has been the very large increase in medical wages, the more than two and a half-fold increase in medical wages, and the 72-percent increase in professional wages. The last phase of the medical wage increase will take place from January, but we are working to ensure that there is a further increase in the professional wage. Our transformation has had some direction in recent years, Mr honourable Member, because it has become a state reservation, a state operation in hospitals, and this means more security for hospitals. You wouldn't have created the issue of hospitals with the certainty of the state, but would have simply said that half of the hospitals were not needed, and you would have closed it. They started doing that, they already did it with four hospitals. But they told me in the past years that they'd pick up where they left off. I wouldn't call it health reform, a modern, future-oriented aspect of people's patient safety, what the left has done is simply shut down hospitals, where people could go, because you didn't close them, and you took a visitation fee from them and hospital allowances if you'd stayed there for several days. I don't think this is the way to make a change. In recent weeks and in the coming weeks, there will obviously be countless consultations on what steps to take on health issues, obviously between the Ministry of the Interior and professional organisations responsible for health. There will be some kind of position in this, and if we see the results of this, we may have a task here in Parliament, too. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Honourable Member, but we are not at this stage yet, we are still in the time of negotiations. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry a question: How long will the Fidesz surcharge be paid for district heating? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2022-11-02-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the number of district heating settlements exceeded 100 in 2020, but not only do residents heat district heating, but also municipalities, institutions such as kindergartens, nursery schools, medical clinics, social institutions, so it is not negligible what the cost of district heating is. Last May, the Hungarian Energy Office set the reference cost of the gas price at 20 euros per megawattor, until this summer it was 300 euros per megawattor. We were able to determine the price of district heat when the gas price was right at the top. Since then, however, the market has turned upside down, the price of gas has decreased by about 70 percent, and in recent days it has already been traded with 100 euros. However, the government did not review or look at the government compared to this, the official decision of EUR 300 was not reviewed, thus setting 10-15 times the official price for companies, budgetary bodies and institutions receiving district heating. However, it is incomprehensible why nothing is happening, why the government is watching this by hand, because it was a price finding at a time of error. At the same time, this puts local governments in a very difficult position, bankrupts the institutions, and basically without heating, institutions and kindergartens, if the price is so high. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: if European stock exchange gas prices have decreased by 70 percent since the summit, when will the reference cost of district heating be reviewed? When will the cost of district heating be reduced, and for how long will this Fidesz surcharge be paid? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-11-02-46	Thank you, Congressman Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-11-02-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In recent times, we often have to face the fact that the left is misinterpreting the current economic and world market developments. A year and a half ago, gas prices moved between 15 and 20 euros. The gas price increased sevenfold after the imposition of the wrong sanctions in Brussels and is still much higher than before. Although there is a temporary calm now, the large amount of gas consumed by Europe has been stored in the summer; when they start to use the previously stored quantities in winter, this is expected to go up again in terms of prices. The Hungarian government protects Hungarian families with reduced prices, and it is not the market price above the average consumption, but a more favourable price. It is a very important achievement that our country has a long-term gas supply agreement with Russia, and at the last EU summit we managed to ensure that the gas price cap, the Commission's proposal, which is a virtually gas embargo, is not valid for our country, which, if the plan had been adopted, would have stopped supplying gas to Hungary in a few days. The Hungarian Prime Minister has managed to prevent this. I would like to draw your attention to the price of natural gas, as Eurostat has stated, that the price of natural gas has decreased for the population of Hungary alone of the 24 EU Member States examined. [[Gergely Harvestó: The first semester.]] , and in the case of Hungary, we support Hungarian households with HUF 181 thousand, which also applies to district heating customers. In order to negotiate with the municipalities, a ministerial commissioner was appointed. Please, Congressman. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] support for energy security in the next period. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-48	Thank you, Madam Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Löcsei, representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, How much compensation does the government expect to pay for the drought damage in 2022, and from what do they intend to raise? It's an address. It is for Congressman Louis Löcsei to take the floor. [[12.50]]
u2022-11-02-49	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Hungary is hit by an unprecedented drought in 2022. It is clear that the five-point action plan previously issued did not substantially improve the situation of farmers. Drought damage has been reported and should therefore be aware of the seriousness of the situation. Reference data of each producer are available in electronic form. Based on the data of the damage control decisions already taken by the Government Office, it is possible to model the amount of resources needed to mitigate the damage. The level of compensation also depends on the reference period and the reference price for the reference year. The lower the reference prices for the last five years and the higher the reference price for the year, the less compensation the producer can expect. The compensation allowance will be paid under the current rules in March 2023. In agriculture and agriculture, the production year starts in autumn 2022. The purchase of materials for production, the completion of autumn and spring works are subject to the right time. In the absence of a source, the success of next year's production is not ensured, the credit line of the Agrár Széchenyi Card has already been charged. In the light of the above, I will address the following questions to the Minister. How much compensation does the government expect to cover the drought damage in 2022, and from what do they intend to raise? Have you calculated the valorisation of the prices of the reference period? Are you planning to introduce an early payment of compensation? I'd like to ask you a worthy answer. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A rare applause from the ranks of DK, Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-11-02-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Levočei. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-11-02-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, it is worth recalling that, during the time of left-wing governments, substantial agricultural risk management did not work in Hungary, even though it was already needed. We have built a multi-pillar system of HUF 10 billion in the last decade, which is at the forefront of European comparison in managing the risk of farmers. This year, the country was hit by an unprecedented historical drought in 150 years. This year, besides the risk management system, other instruments needed to be introduced. I'd like to give you two numbers. We have created a moratorium on the payment of loans for farmers in distress, which required for the repayment of HUF 286.6 billion of loans and gave farmers until the end of 2023. The other figure is HUF 322 billion, as this year's advance and payment of EU subsidies is higher than last year's. Mr President, without the knowledge of the risk management system, Mr President, Mr President, you seem to be asking for and proposing. It does not appear to be aware that the injured producers have just begun to submit their claim for compensation, and that they have until 30 November. After that, only this year's claims can be aggregated and the government can decide on the amount of the compensation fund. Honourable Congressman, I also regret to say that you are simply not telling the truth when you talk about government measures not improving the situation of farmers. The steps taken so far will help farmers to deal with this year's difficulties, supported by detailed data on the progress of autumn work. Look around Hungary's agricultural areas and see to what extent farmers are slowly full of hard work. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: When will you seriously think about the words you have spoken at retirement events, that:, Respect for the Years! Appreciate the elderly. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-02-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A large quarter of our country's population, some 2.5 million of our countrymen, receive pension-like benefits. According to the latest statistics of the KSH, the average amount of benefits for those receiving old-age pensions is HUF 164 thousand, even in poorer counties like the ones from which I came, even though it is even lower. Plus, the scissors are opening, the differences are growing. And here I am thinking not only of János Áder's pension of more than HUF 4 million, but also of the 28 500 forints of old-age pension that has been inhumanely embedded by the Fidesz government since 2008; the gap is growing differently: it is growing between pensioners in the more prosperous and deprived regions; but also between the active age group and pensioners, as while pensions reached almost 70 percent of salaries in 2008, this indicator has now fallen below 50 percent. Half a million of our countrymen are bells a month, the postman doesn't reach 100 thousand forints, now it's really enough to starve, shamelessly, with a sadly low pension. We want a much fairer system, because we do not believe that, for example, Communist luxury pensions should be increased by the same percentage as those of those who once worked with honor. Therefore, Jobbik will continue to stand for differentiated pension increases. Our proposal is old, but now more recent than any previous period, so that we do not have a fixed percentage of the pension increase for everyone in the same way, which means only a few pounds of bread for many, but also a 10 or even a hundred thousand increase for others, but that percentage should be higher for small pensioners. In other words, the available resources should be allocated more fairly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] A single extra penny of this kind would not cost the budget. Have you thought about it? I'm waiting for a meaningful answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-02-54	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who was competent according to the subject, who asked András Tállai to answer the question.
u2022-11-02-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you mention in your question:.. respect for the years, appreciation for the elderly.. This is not a soft voice, as you indicate in the title; it is the values of the political community of Fidesz-KDNP in relation to pensioners. And it's a little different from the Jobbiks, because if you don't mind, we're gonna look back a few years, and I'm gonna help you remember what Jobbik had to say about retired people. For example, in 2019 the pensioners were called "far-back commandos," or let me mention the writing of their party president, in which he wrote: "Hate is in their eyes, and sewage flows from their mouths, and the XX. All the traumas of the century. This is Jobbik's values for pensioners. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Let's hear the answer! Ander Balázs intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And now you're trying to do good for some of the pensioners, of course. [[Gergely Arató: What about pensions, Mr. Secretary of State, talk about what will happen?!]] I would like to say that, with regard to differentiated pension increases, the government does not support this type of pension increase proposal. He doesn't support it because pension benefits operate on an insurance policy. It's not social services, it's not aid. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The first Orbán government has implemented it!]] It doesn't depend on the need and it doesn't depend on the social situation. The essence of Fidesz-KDNP's pension policy, the respect for the years and appreciation for the elderly, is that the value of pensions must be preserved. We've kept it for the first year of our government. [[Ander Balázs: With such inflation?!]] and we will also preserve it in 2022, when the country is in a much more difficult economic and financial situation. We'll protect the pensioners from you. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-56	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry: what does the government do to lift the pointless wind power plant ban against Hungarian interests without delay? It's an address. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor. [[13.00]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-11-02-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The 2015 EU Energy Security Strategy, voted by the Hungarian Government, states that the biggest risk of Europe's energy supply is the Russian import dependency. It also contains Russia's use of the import dependency on Europe as an economic weapon, through which it intervenes in the internal and external policies of individual Member States. Since May 2021, before the war, before sanctions, we also know that Russia has unfairly manipulated the gas market in its own interests by withdrawing supplies, and since Russia has invaded the independent Ukraine, gas supply is even more uncertain, not because of sanctions, but because of the war. Due to Hungary's energy independence and tackling the climate crisis, renewable energy sources have a key role to play. In this situation, it is openly contrary to the interests of Hungary and it is only in the interest of maintaining our vulnerability that the wind power plant ban imposed by the Orbán government continues to apply. In Europe, wind energy is a dynamically developing industry, and many data and scientific research in Hungary prove that, yes, there is enough wind in Hungary, there is potential for newer modern wind turbines, and existing wind power plants, although old technology, produce electricity cheaply and can be installed quickly enough. So instead of raising government debts, this would mean serious help, cheap and secure electricity for the Hungarian population. By the way, the Dialogue is currently collecting signatures to give people 200,000 forints of reclaims, but it would be much better if there were cheap and secure renewable energy. Please inform me of the reason for the delay. What does the government do to finally lift this pointless wind power plant ban, which is completely contrary to Hungarian interests? Thank you in advance for your answer. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-11-02-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and we will hear the answer from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You started by saying what the Hungarian Government did to eliminate Russian gas dependence. I think he did the most, because we built four interconnectors that you didn't really support, we bought back gas reservoirs, and anyway, most importantly, we made 1 billion cubic metres of capacity per year through the Krk LNG terminal in 2021-27. This is practically the first long-term contract we have concluded with a Western player. I think it would be worth admitting in every way. By the way, maintaining the reduction of the rent, the fact that we were able to do so until the average consumption, is a result in the current situation that helps Hungarian families a lot, helping 181 thousand forints a month. That's a great thing. And by the way, you asked me about green energy. In recent years, solar energy has been the area where our solar capacity has increased to approximately 3.3 gigawatts, so we can achieve the target of 6 gigawatts planned for 2030 earlier. As far as wind power plants are concerned, it should be remembered that there are already 330 megawatts of wind power in operation. Although Hungary has a low wind potential due to its location in the Carpathian Basin in Europe, the government is considering the advantages and disadvantages of increasing the use of wind energy in the light of the European energy crisis. I would also like to ask the congresswoman and her faction not to object to the Paks II investment, because it is a key issue for our electricity generation to have domestic production, and I would like to ask you to support our proposals in this regard in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-60	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. What does the government do to save small gas stations? It's an address. Madam Vice President, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalos will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Approximately half of the gas stations involved in fuel retailing in Hungary are small and medium-sized enterprises, independent gas stations. There are about a thousand of these businesses across the country. As a result of the fuel price cap measure announced last November, they are now in danger of losing their income from the fuel sold. While MOL was able to achieve record profits, small fuel companies struggle to survive. Bleeding out these gas stations, in addition to destroying Hungarian-owned businesses, can also cause serious fuel supply problems, since in some cases these gas stations are not the only ones who can serve certain areas. After a long time, the government has allocated HUF 18.5 billion in support of small gas stations, in view of the serious dangers caused by these problems. Secretary of State Nobilis Márton announced that the applicants could receive the aid as early as August, but many small gas stations have not yet received the amount of aid granted to him. My question is, then, when will the government deliver on its promise to small gas stations, when will it fully pay the sums that are their survival. Another problem is that MOL's forced contract no longer allows it to deliver fuel to wells, it has to be provided for itself, but these enormous transport costs continue to burden small businesses that are already operating without profit. Furthermore, they are obliged to pay market energy prices, which will lead them to another gap in the heating season. Therefore, my question is that, due to the extension of the price cap provision, it was expected to rationalise the regulation by the fourth quarter on the basis of a proposal from small gas stations. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-02-62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your question, which you asked our wallet on an important subject, for the second time. I have already answered the same written question on the same subject, almost word for word, and I would therefore like to confirm my earlier reply orally. Entrepreneurs operating small gas stations know precisely that it does not cover reality when they claim that the government only recognized the situation after a long time and took action to help them. We consider it important and we have always considered it important to guarantee rural security of supply, so that fuel is available not only at gas stations but also at gas stations. We know precisely that small gas stations are typically operated by less capitalised small and medium-sized Hungarian companies, and therefore, contrary to your statement, we have already introduced in March 2022 a programme of support for small gas stations with a start-up budget of HUF 10 billion. The main point of this programme is that the companies concerned can receive a subsidy of HUF 20 per litre for 80% of the amount of fuel sold in the given months of 2021. In June 2022, the government decided to continue supporting small petrol stations, thus extending the scope of the programme for another three months until the end of September and an additional HUF 8.5 billion was allocated. The amended invitation was published on 17 August and new applications have been open since 19 August. I would therefore like to make it clear to everyone that the examination of applications is ongoing and, contrary to your claim, payments are in order for applications meeting all the substantive and formal criteria. Please support us in this measure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-64	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Do you agree with Mihágy Varga that the building insulation programmes have not achieved their goal in the last 12 years? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of the government's most serious omissions is that in the last 12 years, virtually nothing has been started with unconventional buildings, no comprehensive insulation programme has been launched. Through the reduction in costs, you said that cheap fossil energy will be available forever, that there is no need to save money, that there is no need to modernise buildings. But the energy crisis knocked on the door and showed how irresponsible this policy was. [[13.10]] The proportion of insulated family homes is only 20 percent, far below the European and regional average, for example, 59 percent in Poland. Minister Mihály Varga himself acknowledged that energy efficiency programmes should have been launched to a greater extent. Home renovation support and village CSOK can also be used for building renovation, but it is only understandable for families and there are no energy efficiency requirements. For years, the LMP has been proposing to launch a building insulation programme, with non-refundable support and reduced credit for the insulation of apartments, window replacement, heating modernisation and domestic renewable energy. The state spending of 600 billion HUF a year would help to refurbish 100,000 apartments, and it would avoid 323 thousand tons of CO2 emissions. Building insulation is a way out of energy poverty affecting real sustainable overhead cuts and 30-40 percent of society. Energy will be affordable if we consume less, we can no longer keep heating the streets with Russian gas at official prices. Dear Secretary of State, Do you agree with Mihály Varga that the building insulation programs have not achieved their goal in the last 12 years? When will confession and repentance finally be followed by real action? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2022-11-02-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am pleased that you have acknowledged in your speech that there have been, or are in the process of, programmes to help build energy-friendly houses and apartments. He mentioned home renovation support, the village CSOK. Since its launch in 2015, the state has accepted some 200,000 applications by the end of the 21st year, with a total of around 660 000 billion applications. [[Sic!]] Forints in value, in the frame of the CSOK because I am talking about 152 thousand families contracted 450 billion forints, and with the village CSOK 26 thousand more families obtained more than 140 billion forints. In addition, between 2010 and 20 HUF 70 billion was supported by support for the energy efficiency investments of 300 thousand families, and nearly 200,000 families received support in the framework of the home renovation support in the last year and a half. The other option was a programme for the development of a solar system and the modernisation of heating for the public, for which tens of thousands of aid applications were submitted, and one quarter of the applications submitted relate to heating modernisation. I do not know how much the congresswoman is in the countryside, but what you can see about public institutions in all parts of the country is the energy efficiency of municipal buildings, for example, that very, very important progress has been made. The KEHOP programme supported the complex energy investments of the municipalities by more than HUF 20 billion, if I only look at my own constituency, 98 percent of the settlements have renewed their kindergarten, kindergarten, school, municipal building. I think that these are important results, and obviously we still have work to do here, but I think that this is a direction that we have already taken clearly, and I ask for the support of the Member woman in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-68	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister: "Do they sacrifice their own soldiers for power? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Secretary Balázs Fürjes will answer you. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-11-02-69	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, Based on the events of Jászberényi over the last few days, it is right to ask what we can expect if the Gyurcsánys come from the shadows to power. It is well known that Lóránt Budai, mayor of Jobbik, openly proclaims Nazi ideas on his Facebook page, adding to this an event threatening good diplomatic relations between countries, when on 17 October 2022 the Jászberény Celebration Community received a high-ranking German delegation, and the mayor of Lóránt Budai greeted the German delegation with the anthem written by the Nazi regime, which shared earlier Hitler and Nazi quotations:. The head of the German delegation made a firm move forward and turned the Nazi anthem pale. At the board meeting the next day, the better mayor acknowledged what had happened and promised to look for those responsible. I commend to you the constant slogan of Peter James: He who has the power has the responsibility. Of course, we know that this could still be the case of Jászberény, but the fact that the Gyurcsánys sent a statement from all opposition media to the ex-Mayor, former MP of the local DK, to Dr. József Gedei, that if their opposition ally does not stand by Lóránt Budai, there will be serious consequences and exclusion from DK. Today it is clear: Gyurcsány protects the anti-Semites while their own DK jazz leader is being blackmailed and threatened with exclusion. I ask you, if the Gyurcsánys do this in the shadows, what would they do in a position of power? I ask you, though I know the answer [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Then why do you ask?! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] If this had been done by a national mayor, the Gyurcsánys would have protested with the liberal journalists of the world 24 hours a day and demanded his resignation. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Pathetic!]] Why don't they do that now? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] What can the country expect from those who sacrifice their own soldiers for power? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Balázs Fürjes, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, It grows together, the left is joined with the far right, the progressive left is furnished with the Nazis, anti-Semites, racists. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] If you get mixed up in dandruff, you get eaten by pigs. By embracing anti-Semitic and racist candidates and declarations on the left, he became anti-Semitic and racist himself. Just two of the sad examples. László Bíró, the politician of Jobbik, previously called Budapest "Judapest" and called the religious Israelite citizens recognizable by their distinctive hairstyles with a noble simplicity, "the lice-slips." What did one progressive left-wing icon, Gergely Christmas, the Mayor of Budapest, also supported by DK, say about this? He recommended to the voters the election of this Nazi candidate with a mouth full of the official coat of arms and the flag of Budapest, behind the subtitle 'Mayor of Budapest'. What did Martin Gyöngyösi, the party leader of Jobbik, say? He said that he made this proposal here in the Parliament should list representatives of Jewish origin. At that time, left-wing parties declared blockade against him, and today they defend him. That's what Gergely Christmas did, she said she didn't think it was Nazism in itself. Compared to this, the government proclaims zero tolerance, proclaims and exercises anti-Semitism. This has the result: according to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, our least Jewish fellow citizens are concerned that they are being harassed or physically attacked because of their Jewishness. What the left is doing in this case is unacceptable, but unfortunately, it has indeed grown together, which belongs to one another. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Miklós Seszták, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Why are rail developments affecting Zahony and its region crucial? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On 18 October, in a small village near the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, Europe's first, green technology-based intermodal land transhipment terminal was handed over, which is one of the largest in terms of both theoretical capacity and territory on the continent, using its own 5G network. The primary function of the terminal, as well as the logistics area in the Záhony-Eperjeske-Fényeslitke triangle, is to move the trains arriving from the east from the broad-gauge railway trains used there to the standard gauge railway trains established in Europe. The logistical capacity in this region was at an early stage rivaling the logistical capacity of the port in Hamburg. [[13.20]] In the middle of the year, the government announced that large-scale rail development could take place in Zahony and its region, with the aim of increasing further the volume of grain and other grain crops, which currently depends on the development of logistical capacity, in addition to container shipments arriving through the Zahony Recreation District. The project will include the reconstruction, renovation, reinforcement, reconstruction of track and track sections, reconstruction of transmissions, renovation of transformer and spatial lighting towers, re-wirement of safety equipment and the restoration of charging. In my view, rail developments affecting Záhony, Fényeslitke and its region can play a significant role not only in the domestic but also in the European and intercontinental context, in order to ensure the continued supply of goods from the eastern direction, which are important for industry and the general public. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why rail developments in Zahony and its region are crucial. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you very much for bringing such an important subject to this House. We have to start with the fact that the Balliberal governments closed railway lines, destroyed railway families, privatized the MÁV, and then handed over the company with a debt of HUF 300 billion. After 2010, the first task of the national government was to consolidate the railway undertaking and to continuously allocate an increasing amount of resources to rail development within the budget. The budget for the transport sector for the year 23 includes more than HUF 168 billion in additional resources. In fact, the Reaching District in Zahony is one of Europe's largest inland ports. Its area is 84 square kilometres, and its working areas affect 11 settlements. The strategic station of rail traffic from the east to Europe, due to the difference in rail track gauge, has been producing revenue for the region for almost 70 years, providing work for many inhabitants of the surrounding settlements. The importance of this is well known and well known by you as the fourth re-elected representative of the region. A significant proportion of Ukraine's income comes from agricultural exports. Because of the war, the Black Sea route has become extremely limited, the vast part of the grain can get out of the country by rail. In some states of Africa and the Middle East, there may be famine if Ukrainian grain does not reach its destination. Thus, the war has greatly appreciated the role of the region and the Zahonian transhipment area. According to professional opinions, the primary tool for Ukrainian grain deliveries will be the railway for the next two to three years. According to the government decision of September, more than HUF 12 billion of investment can further increase the amount of cereals and crops arriving at us by rail through the Zahonian transhipment district. I congratulate the Member on his work so far and thank you for your support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-76	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Ferenc Dávid, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Minister András Tállai, Secretary of State, will answer you. Congressman Dávid Ferenc has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-77	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, According to press reports, some companies have introduced certain benefits for their employees in the form of subsidies. In addition to this selfless good purpose, they were also likely motivated by the consideration that keeping their workers was worth their sacrifice. At a time of drastic increase in energy prices, such an employer's behaviour could be encouraged rationally. Employers should be given the opportunity to provide such support to their employees free of tax or charge up to a certain amount. As we can see, some employers consider this to be in their interest even if they have to pay for it, even if they could do so without a public burden. The budget will not be lost, because if the company did not pay the employees because of the public costs, the public costs would not be affected anyway, but it would be a great relief for the workers. It would therefore benefit both the employer and the employee without costing the budget anything. Therefore, we are proposing the introduction of employee allowance, under which the employer could grant the full-time employees a tax and contribution-free allowance of up to HUF 50 thousand per month until 31 March 2023. The contribution to be paid to part-time employees at this address would be reduced in proportion to their working time. The regulation should ensure that any abuse is prevented and that, if the employer is required to work at home, the employer should, in addition to the support, be able to make a share of the home rent, in proportion to the duration of the home work. My question is: is the government willing to introduce the employee allowance outlined? Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State.
u2022-11-02-79	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I read your oral question in writing, so you left out a half sentence, the shadow government of which I am a member responsible for economic policy. Well, that's the point. Responsible member? A member of the shadow government? But how? Well, no one named him. You're not responsible for anything! Or are you responsible for the budgetary balance? Or are you responsible for the solvency of the State? Or are you responsible for the development of unemployment? Or are you responsible for the development of GDP? Or are you responsible for the development of public debt? He doesn't answer for it. But he likes to make a statement. True, before he joined the shadow government, he said: "I do not support people under the age of 25, I do not support the payment of arms money and the payment of his daughter's money. In essence, it does not support the system of reduction of overhead costs, it does not support the introduction of an extra-profit tax on multi-company companies. In essence, you are nothing more than a parliamentary lobbyist for multi-company companies, since all your suggestions are about how companies should not tax. This proposal is not about anything else. The state budget doesn't matter, the revenue doesn't matter. Of course, now you've thought about supporting workers, but all of this in a way that means that the state budget goes to hell. Honourable Congressman, The government supports people in a different way: it gives people a reduction in overhead costs, it gives me a price stop, it gives me a interest stop, and I can still list the forms of support. If you'll excuse us, we'll stay with these. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Endre Tóth, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister responsible for culture and innovation: what will be the consequences of plagiarism? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent on the subject, to whom the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-02-81	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, A month ago, it was revealed to the public that Marosi Beatrix, director of the Inner Pest School District, was likely plagiarizing in his thesis. According to one expert, more than 35 percent of his degree work was taken from foreign text by copy-paste method without reference, i.e. other intellectual property was stolen by the head of an educational body. The principal of the district quoted without reference from, among other things, the Member of Parliament, András Jámbor. My fellow Member sent a letter to Sándor Pintér and Gabriella Hajnal to launch an investigation into the plagiarism case and, if there is evidence of fraud, to the head of the district and to be released from work for the duration of the inquiry. [[13.30]] At the University of János Kodolányi, where the graduation was born, there is a isolation. The university short-circuited the investigation, saying that you have no right to review the plagiarism suspect without the consent of the person concerned. I ask the Secretary of State how it is possible for an accredited university in the country to accept plagiarism with text from Wikipedia pages, and then, when accusations of plagiarism arise, to refuse to examine the matter in substance. Is this what Hungarian quality higher education is like? Or is it now not only the language exam that is not mandatory in higher education, but also that the thesis can include resources without reference? Is there any consequence of plagiarism, of the fact that a university defended the plagiarism district director, or are you deliberately turning a blind eye to the crimes of your party soldiers? Pál Schmitt had to resign from a similar case, and Marosi Beatrix could remain principal of the district? I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-02-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He's a graduate without a degree, that's Momentum's specialty. But allow me to quote to you the conclusion of the examination of the University of János Kodolányi, which he also sent to the press, because it is not what you said earlier. Literally, I quote. He graduated from the University of János Kodolányi in 2013 at the Faculty of Ethics and Ethical Education, which was based on his previous master's degree. He was thus qualified as a teacher with his previous qualifications. The internal procedure of the university concluded that due to the current legislative framework, the university has no right to review the content of the diploma issued nearly ten years ago. Based on current legislation, given the limitation period and personality rights, the higher education institution does not have the power to conduct such an examination. The thesis is a work protected by copyright, a file which is protected by civil law according to the relationship between the student and the institution. Regarding the possible copyright infringement in the press, János Kodolányi University concluded that the published parts of the thesis posted on the Internet are not the same as the thesis found in the university's library and can be considered official. Contrary to the statement of the article published on ahang.hu, the thesis does not quote from the previous article of the Rector of the University. Here, there is only a random identity between the two individuals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I think the conclusion of the university procedure is clear, for you, too, I think it's acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. STOP NTAK reporting! When will the caterers receive help? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer you. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, According to the current legislation, the operator of catering shops operating in Hungary must register its catering business at the National Tourism Data Service Centre as NTAK. In addition to registration, companies providing services in each field of activity also have mandatory reporting obligations as of 1 January of the following year. As I have already indicated on the question that has been sent to you before, this obligation, which you must comply with, is a considerable burden on businesses. Typically, it means that they need to obtain IT tools or technical procurements that are of a magnitude of millions and that there is a significant cost of operation, i.e. maintenance. You have said that this is necessary for a better monitoring of the tourism sector, the host sector, but we can all agree that in the current situation, due to the loose purchase prices, i.e. raw material prices, due to the HUF/euro rate and the increased fees, the catering units are probably in one of the most difficult situations in the country at the moment, so that they are required to have such an obligation, and I repeat, the acquisition of very serious IT and assets will also cause serious difficulties. As a conservative party, Jobbik has always wanted to be on the side of small entrepreneurs, that these smallest businesses should be helped now by delaying the fulfilment of this reporting obligation, until the crisis continues, so that they can survive the crisis in an orderly manner, and then, even after the delay, to discuss it again, and perhaps decide to abolish or amend the obligation in full. I would therefore like to ask, with all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, that the government will help host entrepreneurs by delaying this deadline and by giving any support to entrepreneurs to take this acquisition of assets and to carry it out. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-02-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. In response, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The Government and the Tourism Agency aim to provide all necessary information and support to the service providers concerned. We want them to be as ready to join the system as possible. For this reason, the MTÜ will keep professional organisations informed of the most important practical information on data reporting and of the data subject. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Tourist Data Service Centre is currently receiving daily traffic and statistics of about 45 thousand accommodation units. These support effective decision-making and provide a good basis for targeted marketing campaigns. This is also the reason we believe that Hungary's tourism has achieved the record year 2019 in spite of all the difficulties this summer. The expansion of NTAK with catering shops and tourist attractions also serves the full digitisation of the tourism sector. This will provide a comprehensive picture of the sector's traffic and statistics, making the data-based approach even more effective and enable Hungarian tourism to respond more effectively and flexibly to changing conditions. I would like to inform you that the Government has received proposals to extend the deadline. If a decision is taken on this matter, it can also be regulated in a Regulation. As soon as such a regulation is adopted, we will, of course, provide information as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. How could the creation of a game garden in Róberény/Nadapi be granted an environmental permit under the provisions of the forest law? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, will answer you. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-02-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As has been said, he has been granted an environmental permit to expand a hunting company linked to Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, in forests belonging to Nadap and Lovasberény. On the basis of the environmental permit listed by the Government Office, more than twice the previous area, almost 700 hectares can be behind the fence and become a closed game garden. In addition to the area, the former government of Horse Berény will operate as a hunting centre in the future, all of this in Natura 2000. The population of Nadap was not informed of the authorisation procedure, despite the fact that the planned fence would run very close to the houses on the edge of the village and would affect virtually 26 percent of the village area. The government office issued a permit last year, but only a few months ago the residents of the village noticed that the fence was marked with piles. The municipality also disagrees with the untraceable surrounding of the area in Vadaskert, for tourists. They would insist on ensuring access to the forest. In addition, the forest law states that in the forest you can walk on foot for recreation, recreation, sports and excursions, as well as by means of a horse-drawn vehicle for sports or tourism purposes, or be at your own risk, unless other legislation restricts it. [[13.40]] On the basis of the above, I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how, in your opinion, he could actually obtain an environmental permit for such a game garden, while, under the provisions of the forest law, this detention is simply not regular. Do you consider it an example that the population should simply be isolated from such extensive forest areas, Natura 2000 sites or other areas near nature, where they would otherwise be able to relax and recreate? I ask you, in the future, there may be hope that the population will be involved in similar actions. Although I know that the Fidesz government's hunting and these hunting companies are extremely important, I think that the people living here should also be very important, and they have the right to travel in these forests. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-02-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The environmental permit issued in 2021 does not relate to the implementation of a new establishment but to the expansion of an existing game park. During the authorisation procedure, all the necessary administrative authorities, the property trustee and the notary of the two municipalities concerned were also requested, and no one raised objections to the enlargement. According to a statement from the notary of the two municipalities concerned, the investment is not contrary to local law on environmental and nature protection as well as to the means of settlement planning. The Fejér County Disaster Protection Directorate has given a professional contribution to the expansion of the game garden. The Duna-Ipoly National Park Directorate has already been involved in the planning process, as a result of which Natura 2000 designated habitats have been excluded from the planned expansion, where, for example, the large number of Nadapi starflowers occur. By missing this part of the area, from a nature conservation point of view, one of the most frequented parts of the area did not get to the area of the game garden, it continues to function as a free area. Enlargement does not violate environmental interests, it is not contrary to local regulations, there is no legal reason for refusal to develop. With regard to forest visits, the forest law and the Nature Protection Act, the latter regulates that the forest should be visited only on educational paths or on tourist signs in highly protected areas. These laws do not restrict entry into a wildlife garden in a protected area, so the population and other nature walkers can enter it; this can usually be solved in different technical ways. Of course, as in all forests, there may be certain restrictions, so a forest visit ban is expected to apply for the hunting period, and as the area is for defence purposes, further forest visit restrictions are also possible, which is understandable. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "Why doesn't the government give a helping hand to the municipalities?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who, at his request, will be answered by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-93	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As we know, in 2020, by withdrawing their own tax revenues, the government cut a vessel in the municipalities, and since then they have been bled out, but the final blow will be given now, and if they do not receive immediate State aid, mass bankruptcy will not be avoided. Avoiding protection against energy price rises will lead them to inability and indebtedness. The municipalities also want a final shelter, instead they receive carpet bombing: the State took over not from the burdens, but from the revenues, so without significant own tax revenue, the fixed norms are not enough to operate and to carry out mandatory tasks, let alone the multiple-knit costs. Therefore, public lighting and at least the costs of maintaining educational and educational institutions with a municipal reserve are assumed by the State, otherwise these tasks will not be carried out in the absence of a source. In the absence of State aid or burden transfer, the closure of the institutions will lead to a deterioration of the comfort of the people living in the place, but it may even press a negative stamp on public safety. Within the framework of the Hungarian village program, you can apply for heating upgrades, energy-efficient appliances, for your own energy supply, for example, solar systems, and in this case the local authorities are able to connect to the electricity grid. Some municipalities would receive gas from 1 January next year at more than 30 times the price of gas compared to the gas price at the beginning of this year, which, we think, is quite simply priceless. It is essential that municipalities can also buy firewood at official prices. My question is, therefore, that the government is planning to take over something from the municipalities, or has another plan to help them as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-02-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government will further increase the support of municipalities in the approved budget next year, with HUF 102 billion. We can remember that when other governments did not increase the aid, but the debt, then the Hungarian State assumed a debt of HUF 1387 billion in four steps at the municipality of 2078. This was the municipal policy of the Left: it pushed the municipalities into debt, which they would never have been able to pay without State aid, without borrowing or without issuing bonds. So, in the end, it was necessary for the left-wing government to be replaced by a right-wing government, so that the debts accumulated during the left-wing period would be paid by the right-wing government instead of the municipalities. Even here in the capital, if we look at it, and elsewhere, there have been increases in business tax in local governments: between 2014 and 2021, business tax revenues have increased by 44 percent for municipalities at national level. In 2021, the capital city was able to keep its original plan: it was able to collect 157 billion instead of 139 billion, so local governments also increased their own revenues in this area. We provide the municipalities with a final shelter service, so the central budget will provide tens of billions of HUF for the rest of the year to supplement the local government's rent, so they will not have to pay the total market fee, but will be able to receive a more discounted one. As of 1 January, the state-owned energy supplier will be obliged to make a bid in municipal public procurement, thereby ensuring the continuity of the energy supply. In recent years, there has been a lot of support that you have been talking about here, Member, which has created a specific basis for the energy development of local governments: HUF 20 billion for complex municipal investments, and HUF 25 billion for municipal companies under the leadership of the National Development Programme Office. A total of HUF 371 billion in support decisions were taken between 2014 and 2020, in order to improve the preparation and energy efficiency of municipalities. For the external and internal renovation of local estates, the Hungarian village program was a 6400 successful tender, we provided HUF 130 billion in support of small settlements, precisely in order to reduce their energy consumption. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Katalin Csöbör, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What investments has the Government made to help health workers in the last 12 years? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The answer will be given to you by Bence Rétvári, Deputy Secretary of State. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-02-97	Thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Minister, On October 5th, we handed over the house of Catherine, known as the nursing home. The Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Central Hospital and University Training Hospital, within the framework of the project "Development of Inns of Medical Suppliers" was able to implement an energy upgrade in the building with EU funding of 140 million HUF, then in the second round, thanks to the HUF 400 million government support, the building was completely renewed, and it became modern according to the needs of the age: 61 seats were created and the entire mechanical engineering was renewed, including the sewage, plumbing, electricity and central heating systems. [[13.50]] This is particularly in the energy crisis caused by failed sanctions in Brussels [[Gergely Arató: Viktor Orbán voted for them! The president's ringing the bell.]] it's a solution to our current problems. In addition, we can also tell you that a larger guest apartment house has been established, plus a fully accessible area. We have thus learned during the coronal virus epidemic that it is very important to ensure the proper conditions for health workers, and this is particularly important in the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Central Hospital, where 5,000 employees are employed. I trust that first-time medical staff will be able to live peacefully and calmly in the House of Catherine. Dear Deputy Minister, With regard to what has been said, I would like to ask you how much further assistance can be expected and in order to help start-up healthcare workers. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Congratulations on Miskolc's successful project. Fortunately, programmes have already been implemented and are in the process to promote the housing of the workers. Out of 13,4 billion forints, 17 nursing homes in 15 hospitals have been renovated or built in a new hostel. This was done at eight locations, in addition to Miskolc, in Zalaegerszeg, Szekszárd, Győr, Székesfehérvár and Gyula Gyula, it takes place at nine locations, including Eger, Szombathely, Kecskemét, Orosháza, Nyíregyháza, Tatabánya, Jászberény, Veszprém and Kaposvár. In addition, in the conduct of the National Hospital Directorate-General, we have introduced various scholarships from government sources, precisely in order to make as many graduates as possible, as many career beginners can see the prospect of working as a graduate worker, thus helping a great deal in hospital care, taking over a lot of tasks from nurses and, in part, even from doctors, thanks to their academic qualifications. All of this is possible because in recent years we have increased health resources significantly, with HUF 1471 billion more than before our government. In recent years, we have managed to renovate 91 rural hospitals in whole or in part, not as planned by the left, but to renovate, stress, 54 clinics, 107 rescue stations, and create 23 new clinics and 34 new rescue stations. We did this to ensure the health of Hungarian people. Let us not forget what the left did in 2006! I quote their own Minister of Health, Lajos Molnár:, immediately after the establishment of the second Gyurcsány government, it became clear that there was no money, so we had to decide on restrictions, and the biggest withdrawal affected health. We trust that there will never be a third Gyurcsány government [[Gergely Harvesto: You'll see soon!]] 'Cause we're pretty sure that's what they'd start their administration with. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-100	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Harvester, with all due respect, I'm asking you to keep your voice down, because that's what's making this House sound. [[Gergely Harvesto spread his hands.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Kordás, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry: "Who do you think you are fooling again? ! It's an address. Honourable Member, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In 2019 the European Union adopted a directive under which fathers are entitled to at least 10 days of parental leave in the event of the birth of a child. Member States had to transpose this provision into national law in such a way that it would be effective from 2 August. Compared to this, the draft Labour Code would ensure a minimum of 10 days from the beginning of next year instead of the current 5 days, while most Member States took over the directive with father's leave for 30 days. The proposal by trade unions, which I wish to ensure on behalf of the shadow government, as its wage and labour responsible member, on my support, says that a child should have 15 days of parental leave for the worker and 20 days in the event of a twin birth. Article 8 (2) of the Directive also provides that remuneration for the period of leave must be at least paid during the period of sick leave. Well, according to the draft, for the first 5 days of paternity leave, as has been the case, the absence fee would be due, but for the second 5 days, only 40 percent of the absence fee would be entitled, even though the employee would be entitled to 60 percent of it in the case of sick leave. I would just like to note that most workers, as long as they have a lot of strength, do not even use sick money, are also working in sick people, because the family budget cannot spare 40 percent of their income. Who, then, will take the second 5 days of father's leave if the employee has to give up 60% of his work income? Obviously, this is also the purpose of this regulation, i.e. the government, as the fairy-tale smart girl, has given and not had. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why, with such an attitude, the family-friendly government is so surprised that every year fewer children are born than during the previous government. Who do they think is stupid: Hungarian workers or the European Commission? Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-11-02-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister of Shadows, [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Since 2010, there has been a continuously expanding and extremely wide-ranging family support system in Hungary. Family support amounts to 5 percent of GDP in Hungary, double the EU average, making us not only the EU, but also the world's top riders. Hungary has been the second among the OECD Member States for five years in terms of spending on family-related GDP. Between 2010 and 2022, the percentage of work-based benefits increased from 24 percent to 80 percent, i.e. we are now working on family support elements. The amount of childbearing money is constantly increased, which is now more than HUF 3300 billion. Increasing spending on families has also led to an increase in children's desire. Honourable Congressman, You were State Secretary for Employment Policy and Labour Policy between 2004 and 2006. From that period, I will list some measures concerning families without the need for completeness. In 2005, the tax relief of families with one and two children was abolished during your term as secretary of state, and the three children were radically reduced. Instead, Hungarian families were driven into foreign exchange loans, increased taxes on labour, increased VAT on food, reduced the duration of the child, which the national government restored to three years in 2010. In the years of left-wing governance, childbearing was a serious financial burden. Due to your anti-family action and your austerity policy, the Hungarians' desire to start a family and have children was at a low level in 2010. This government is the government of families, so we will continue to do everything in the future to help Hungarian families. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-104	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "What are you planning to do with the air rescue bases?" It's an address. Honourable Member, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2022-11-02-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to speak on the question of 750 to 800 thousand people, and this is air rescue. I would like to make it clear in advance that I would like to thank each and every air rescuer, an air rescue specialist, for his work, and they are doing a huge job. Nearly six months ago, I spoke on this matter after the agenda and I would like to ask Mr Deputy Minister, Mr State Secretary, that there have been substantive changes. Today, 8 rescue helicopters are working in Hungary and 7 rescue bases are operating in Hungary. The operation of the 7 rescue bases looks like Budaörs, Szentes, Miskolc, Debrecen, and Sármellék, Balatonfüred and the Pécs now transferred will be replaced by Szekszárd. In the spirit of equal opportunities, everyone should know, and I said this in my previous speech that, thanks to an EU legislation, 15 minutes later, each rescue helicopter must arrive at the relevant site, where even rescue and accident-related activities must be carried out. [[14.00]] At the moment, in Western Hungary, in the corner of Hungary, from Sárvár to Sopron, from Szombathely to Győr, this 15-minute time interval does not correspond to reality, so that means that the rescue helicopters will not reach rescue helicopters within 15 minutes. I ask Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Secretary, the news is true that Pope is planning to establish this rescue facility. Is it true that one of the rescue bases in Balatonfüred and Sármellék will be liquidated and transferred to Pope instead? I would also like to ask you how there have been supply problems with parts since the Ukrainian-Russian conflict, and about the average age of rescue helicopters, I would like to ask you that these activities are carried out by rescue helicopters of 16-22 years. I would be honored to have your answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-11-02-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-02-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The important thing for the government was that anyone in this country, anywhere in this country, road, apartment, anywhere, no matter how poorly populated a part of the country, would be able to reach it within 15 minutes. Don't depend on someone living in a larger settlement in a smaller settlement, there's a higher, lower road network where he is, get the ambulance to him. Two things can be done in this direction, extended. One is the development of ground rescue. That's why we've set up 34 new rescue stations, so that at the points of the country where the 15-minute time of arrival was in danger, there's ground rescue stations to get there in 15 minutes. In addition, it was important that ambulances not explode, as we can remember that the left has basically stopped buying ambulances for the last two or three years of his government. We bought new ambulances in thousands of sizes, and we managed to rejuvenate the entire rescue fleet by four to five years. The addition to this is the air rescue, so that where the ambulance still cannot reach in 15 minutes, an air rescue can arrive, so the Hungarian Air Rescue Nonprofit Kft. can arrive. He operates nine rescue helicopters with seven permanent bases, which were previously established in Budaörs, Balatonfüred, Sármellék, Pécs, Szentes, Miskolc and Debrecen. The base in Szekszárd has been completed, honourable Member, the authorisation procedures are being completed. We hope that they can end this month, and then the activity can begin there. And next year, Miskolc and Marcali can also be expected to help and save lives in parts of the country where ambulances are more difficult to reach. Indeed, all over the world life is difficult because of war, penalty inflation, rising energy prices and component supply, raw materials problems, but in Hungary both ground rescue and air rescue are guaranteed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "How many more skins do you want to pull off the paramedics?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor, please.
u2022-11-02-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to information published in the press, as part of the reform package on the renewal of the single health care system, from next year, basic care medical services throughout the country will have to be provided by emergency services on working days between 10:00 and 8:00 a.m., on weekends and holidays between 2:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. The transformation of the on-call system will be a coup d'état for the rescue service without extending the human resources and the equipment park. According to the information received by me on the anonymous reporting interface created in the summer, multiple incoming calls due to on-call calls are not planned to increase the number of people, which is impossible to cause disruptions. There is also a problem that, due to the diluted professional staff of rescue management, calls cannot be rejected, and questioning protocols must be followed, although if qualified backup controllers were to receive calls, false calls could be filtered out, first aid could be provided by telephone, which would reduce the number of exits. It adds that since Covid, people are used to calling the rescue service, trusting them most, that's the feedback. The rescue service in Budapest would have collapsed if it were not possible to order paramedics from the countryside. The situation is also aggravated by security transfers between hospitals, which means a loss of alertable units for several hours. Paramedics with medical authority practically carry the Hungarian rescue on their backs, however, they receive a professional wage. Paramedic training should be at medical school instead of medical college. In addition to the classic alarms during Covid, desperate patients left unattended due to sampling, missed specialist orders and on-call calls also fell on the back of the ambulance service. I would ask the Secretary of State for his answer on why they want to institutionalise this enormous burden for paramedics as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-11-02-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State.
u2022-11-02-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There are two things worth clarifying about your question. One is the reinforcement of the rescue, the reinforcement of the National Rescue Service, and the other is the organization of the on-call system. When we started our government, Hungary had HUF 26 billion available in the budget for rescue tasks, which is now HUF 65 billion. So the amount of money that the rescue service can manage has increased significantly, more than 2.5 times. We tried to renovate the rescue stations, renovate 107 rescue stations; we bought new ambulances in the order of thousands, and we built 34 new rescue stations. The issue of wages is also an important issue. Honourable Congressman, At the beginning of our administration, the average salary of a paramedic was the basic salary plus mobile wage elements and allowances of HUF 173 thousand on average, today it is HUF 472,000; in the case of a paramedic at the beginning of our administration it was HUF 242 thousand, which is now HUF 671 thousand; and for a rescue car driver it was HUF 126 thousand, which is now HUF 466,000. Thus, the wages of rescue workers also increased to a noticeable extent. As regards on-call care, we are talking about a rescue service with a budget of 2.5 times higher, wages are noticeably higher, new, ambulances are more modern, ambulances have more than 100 new equipment, and in this case we have launched a pilot project, honourable Member, first in Hajdú-Bihar County, because we thought it was a step-by-step approach here, and in the framework of a model project, we have examined that if we involve emergency services in on-call care in a county, it will worsen or improve the level of care. And we clearly felt that he was improving, that there were no operational problems, and that on-call care had become more secure. This was a sample project so that if it works, it could be introduced nationwide [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And since this was a good sample project, and one of the Vice-Presidents of the Medical Chamber has been positive about it, I also think it is worth thinking about the national extension. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. What do you intend to do to stop the life expectancy loss and turn back? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who, at his request, will be answered by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor, please.
u2022-11-02-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The corona virus epidemic has reduced life expectancy in most countries in Europe, and Hungary is one of the platformers based on the latest research. According to a survey by the University of Oxford and a demographic research institute, the life expectancy of people in the North European countries has even increased, but Hungary is unfortunately strengthening the deteriorating trend: it stands in the sixth place, and the summary is sad, dramatic, and the life span of Hungarians has been reduced by more than two years compared to 2019. While several countries have reversed the negative trend, in our country, and it is very sad that the situation has deteriorated. The failed epidemic treatment responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of Hungarians and the lack of adequate health care are among the main reasons. Today there are fewer doctors, general practitioners and nurses than during the Gyurcsány government. [[Bence Rétvári: That's not true...]] "The social system is ruined, inflation, the overhead increase, daily insecurity kills the Hungarians sooner than our more fortunate fellow citizens. Secretary of State, even according to surveys not far from the government, every year a small town of Hungarians dies because they do not receive adequate health care. [[14.10]] If you really served the Hungarians, the nation, if you were a family-friendly government, then the Hungarians would live on. So, Mr State Secretary, my question is, what do you want to do to stop this horrific nationalisation trend and turn around. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, our aim is to increase both life expectancy and the number of years spent in health in Hungary, and the difference between the scissors between the countries of Western Europe and Hungary should be as small as possible. The numbers show something other than what you said, honourable Member. There is no doubt that these indicators have deteriorated because of the epidemic in all countries of the world, since almost everywhere there have been more deaths. Thank God we have lower indicators in Hungary than many countries richer than we do. There was a setback in the epidemic, but if you are looking at the pre-p pandemic period, honourable Member, then we have had that date, and I think we can be proud of that, that the difference between the average life span of Western European countries and Hungary has decreased, we have gone below the five-year psychological limit, so now the difference between the life expectancy of a child born in Western Europe and the life expectancy of a child born in Hungary is far less than five years. There's a lot that has to do with this. Unfortunately, you didn't support them here anyway, because from everyday physical education to the introduction of a potato tax, there's a lot of things that help us live our way of life to have more years in health. Besides, health care is important. You know, it is not the number of doctors that you have increased, honourable Member, during your administration, but the number of doctors asking for permission to work abroad that has increased, while under our government, if you look at it, from 2010 to today, the number of doctors working in Hungary has increased by about 4,000. You have reduced the number of hospitals, honourable Member. For that reason, in the hospitals that you have shut down, patients have no longer been cured; on the 16,000 beds that you have eliminated, patients have no longer recovered. Honourable Congressman, How can you reconcile the goal of all well-spoken people to get health care as soon as possible and the objective that your prime minister here in Parliament confirmed a few months ago that the visit fee was the most important health reform in the time of the left. What do you think, when there's a visitation fee, and that's why people don't go to the doctor? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So, does it increase or reduce life expectancy? I trust that we will continue on this path, and in the next three to four years, life expectancy in Hungary may increase by another year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. Now we move on to immediate questioning. Dear House, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-117	Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, You said in Moscow before the election: if there is Russian gas, there is cheap care for Hungarian families, and there is a reduction in overhead. In fact, President Putin, your great friend, said at the same place that it is important that today Hungary buys Russian gas five times less than the European market price. That wasn't true then, but as a good sucker, you listened quietly to this. It also proved to be a simple electoral lie that there will be a reduction in the rent, because after the election, the big scam was revealed: the government brutally increased the price of gas and electricity in the summer, releasing one of Europe's highest gas prices to consumers. Brutal electricity, gas and district heating charges have been imposed on municipalities, children's institutions, schools, social homes, community spaces, medical clinics and small and medium-sized enterprises. But while you were busy collecting money, the situation on the gas market changed. The main European gas price has now fallen from the previous EUR 350 to EUR 120 per megawatt on the Dutch stock exchange. In addition, the European gas policy, such as the draft gas cap, which you so strongly oppose, has a major role to play in this reduction. The gas price has therefore fallen to one third in Europe, except for Hungarian consumers who pay just as much, the same brutally high price as before. Speaking of hofi, I'd ask, does everything ring in here but well-being? Prime Minister, when will the government follow the declining gas prices in Europe? When will you be a third of the price of residential gas and electricity, the cost of energy consumed by local governments, civil institutions and small businesses? When are the gas contracts with the Russians finally going public? When will they show why the so-called retail market price is so brutally high? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And how do you think that Hungarian citizens continue to pay brutal bills, while gas prices on European exchanges have dropped to a third. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the fact that I received a question from a socialist party representative, I would like to remind him that when he was still in his prime and served the left-wing government as a state secretary, in 2010 the price of gas and electricity was the most expensive for Hungarian families compared to salaries in Europe. On the other hand, yesterday I read from Eurostat, which is not the Hungarian Government, but Eurostat, according to their now published statement, that, for the period after the first half of 2021, the prices of gas and electricity from 24 EU Member States were this much in the list, with only Hungary as an exception. What I'm trying to say to you is that I think that the policy that we are pursuing and we call it a reduction in the rent is a good policy, because it means that we can protect families by reducing the rent, even with the current high price level, I see that we can protect all families until the average consumption, and that the majority of Hungarian families are a hundred percent protected category, i.e. 100 percent of consumption. I think it's a great achievement from the Hungarian economy, but the Hungarian government is also a little involved in the ability to protect more than half of the Hungarian families at such prices. [[Szabó Timea: Half?]] Against any price increase. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-120	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-121	Prime Minister's reply disappointed me because I was waiting for you to announce when and by how much you will reduce the price of residential gas. You continue to give us false references. Eurostat statistics refer to the first half of 2022, so it does not include your brutal, drastic summer gas-cracking. [[Bence Rétvári: What about the other countries?]] The fact is, despite the reference to the pre-2010 period, you have now increased the price of gas in a single week more than our government has otherwise been forced to raise gas prices in 12 years. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's right. They've raised the gas to seven times! Prime Minister, I have to tell you that the references you are referring to are false, too, that the majority of people today receive a 100% reduction in their bills. That's not true. You're miscalculating, according to experts, the average price. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] That's why he suggested the average age... [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is why the shadow government has proposed to double the amount of preferential gas prices [[Interpreting from the ranks of the governing parties, among other things: Shame!]] so that the majority of households can really get energy at a reduced rate. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-123	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government of Hungary stands by the reduction of the rent. This means that today every ordinary Hungarian family, and even every Hungarian family, will receive about HUF 181 thousand through the supported brass. [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on!]] [[Gergely Harvesto: Come on!]] If it weren't for the policy of reducing the rent, today all Hungarian families would be poorer by HUF 181 thousand at the end of the month. (Gergely Harvesting: Come on!) I think it should be appreciated, it's a great achievement that the country can do this. [[Gergely Harvesto: If it isn't true!]] It is true that you don't appreciate it, but it doesn't surprise me, but I am always happy to read the list that you voted against the Hungarian people as a Member of Parliament and Secretary of State during the period of the Socialist Government. So I'm talking to a man who voted to take away the 13th month's wages of doctors and nurses during their period of government. [[Moore from the pro-government benches. Intercoms from the ruling parties: Shame! Shame on you.]] you voted in favour of taking the 13th month pension [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Ooh!]] [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Ooh!]] [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Ooh!]] [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Ooh!]] you voted for a two-year reduction of the plant (intercoms from the pro-government benches: Ooh!) , you voted in favour of paying health care (intercoms from the pro-government benches: Ooh!) and voted in favour of the tuition fee (Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Ooh!) Congratulations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! [[Gergely Arató leaves his seat. Intercoms from the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: The shadow government meeting awaits! Gergely Harvester: I'm staying!]] Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title: "Ongoing issues." Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go. [[14.20]]
u2022-11-02-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Indeed, current issues; I hope there will be time for both, Prime Minister. One is the teacher's wage increase. The government claims that this is not possible until EU funds arrive, since it has no money. [[Bence Rétvári: Yes, 10 percent. There's 56 billion.]] I would always like to draw your attention, Prime Minister, to the fact that according to the government's own figures, according to the data of the Hungarian Treasury, between January and September, in addition to the planned tax revenues, the Hungarian government received an additional tax revenue of HUF 2590 billion, i.e. almost HUF 2600 billion. Bence Rétvári, when he announced this year's 10 percent teacher's wage increase, said it would cost 63 billion forints to the budget. Prime Minister, with a little head count, I think it's easy to say that not only does the government have funding for a 40 percent teacher's wage increase, but it would also be 400 percent if you spent this money on it. I would ask Mr Prime Minister, I know that when the EU money comes next year, two years from now, and three years from now, and then one day, what will be paid; this money is already in here, and it has come in as an additional source, why they will not make this decision, and why they will not give us at least this 40 percent wage increase when the funds are here. My other question is also related to the overhead, but we would like to hear the price of electricity from Prime Minister once more. How is it that Pakson produces electricity for 12 forints, at Mátra Power Plant we produce electricity for 24 forints? That's what you know, both state companies. Together, the two produce nearly double of the domestic consumption in Hungary each year. Tell me, Prime Minister, why are we giving this electricity to the population at a cost of 70 forints? But most of all, I would ask why local governments, local governments that maintain the services of the people and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have to conclude these contracts for HUF 250-300. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-02-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-127	Teacher's wages. The simple answer to the question of where the money that the budget collects as a surplus is to go to the Rehabilitation Fund. Each additional revenue goes to the Retirement Fund. From this we pay the HUF 181,000 a month that all families, including the families of teachers, receive. By the way, in January 2020, there was a 10% increase, in 21 it was 10 percent, in 22 it was 10 percent. How EU money comes here, honourable Member. As you say. So in the event that Hungary receives all the money that is due to it, in that case we can raise 21 per cent, 25 per cent and 29 per cent in 24 and 25 per cent, respectively. If we don't get these resources, we can only raise 10 percent each year until they reach the same level, so not three years, but rather four or five years, but rather six years. I therefore ask you, and my advice to you is that if you want to increase teachers' wages in Hungary faster than 10 percent a year, you should be kind and stand up for Hungary in Brussels. It's the best way to help teachers. As far as the price of electricity is concerned, there are really complex formulas, but the point we need to know here is that the more green energy we use, the more expensive the electricity will be. And the thing is, in exchange for all green energy, we have to keep the same amount of energy available. The more energy we produce from sunlight or from the wind, the amount that we need to reserve in case nature refuses us alternative resources will increase accordingly. As a result, the most expensive electricity in Hungary today is green energy and the cheapest is nuclear energy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister, I'm sure we agree with the end, which is why I would ask you to answer my question. Yeah, nuclear power is the cheapest. Twelve wholes of maybe seventy-odds of forints per kilowatt Paks produces the power. Why is it given to Hungarians for 70 HUF? Why is it given to municipalities and companies for 250-300 HUF? That's a very simple question for you to answer. And to add to that, the Mátra Power Plant with its 24 forints, and once again, the two together, it almost produces twice the population's needs here, locally, without any international import requirements. And for teacher salaries, I can tell you, Prime Minister, that you may have noticed that some people were out here on the street, and I think they have made it clear with dignity and force that this can't go on. You can't call these teachers, out of 230,000 net, after 30 years... honor and public appreciation, Prime Minister. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think that if there are intentions, as the cranes are still standing in the Castle, so they build up in the palaces, and your minister can fly in the country with the special plane, then perhaps we could squeeze out a few hundred billion of these 2600 billion into their wage increase. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-02-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-131	Congressman, I'm afraid I can't. Every extra penny the budget collects should be used to reduce the overhead. It will be this year, and it will be the following year. I repeat: if there is support from the European Union, we will be able to raise wages more quickly for teachers; if there is no, it will be slower. We will still raise, but then we will do so within the framework of the Hungarian budget. Therefore, I ask you, for the benefit of teachers, that you do not prevent us from making a decision favourable to Hungary in Brussels, because if we succeed and receive the resources that are due to Hungary, we will indeed be able to increase the unacceptably low wages of teachers more quickly today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Please respond, Prime Minister. It's an address. Congressman Dávid Bedő, please.
u2022-11-02-133	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! Several questions have been raised here today about gas prices, educators' wages. Unfortunately, we didn't get any meaningful answers to these, as usual. I have a very, very simple question for you. I kind of have an ordinary question for you, in case you can still answer that. Because of your misguided economic policy, half the country is worried about how you're going to pay the bills for the coming months. A lot of people are afraid of how they're gonna get through the winter before them. Prime Minister! How much money you pay for the XII. In your district villa, in your house on the High Road and in your luxury property in 60 Puszta? And how much did that cost a year ago? I've got a minute left, and I'd be happy to offer you this to think about your answer and add up the numbers. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties. Noise and interruptions from the pro-government benches, among them: It doesn't work that way! Bence Rétvári: That's it?]]
u2022-11-02-134	Thank you very much. However, with respect, I would like to suggest to the Member that he is at a time when there is even a need for modesty. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-135	Congressman, I have noted your question, and my wife will answer you in writing. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-136	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Dávid Bedő.
u2022-11-02-137	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. That's the usual bullshit. I asked you the simplest question there is; the simplest question that exists, and you are unable to answer that question. You can ask anyone in this country exactly how much they pay for gas and electricity. [[Bence Rétvári: Tell me how much you have. David, tell me.]] He knows exactly, for months he has been counting how he will come out in the coming months and how he will pay his bills. But the Prime Minister of the country doesn't know that! You like to play the simple child of the people. He likes to lie to everyone that he's an average Hungarian. But what average Hungarian has two villas and a luxury property? [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] What average Hungarian doesn't know how much he pays at home for the rent? You should provide solutions to millions of Hungarians in such a crisis. But how can he provide a solution when he doesn't even know what the problem is, because he lives so distracted, he doesn't even know where he lives, which house or which villa he lives. [[Noise, uproar in the pro-government benches. Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: "That's stupid!]] I ask you, Prime Minister, to go home today, take out your bills and see what millions of Hungarians face every day. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties. Noise, intervention in the benches of the governing parties: Liar! Bence Rétvári interrupts.]]
u2022-11-02-138	Congressman, I just gave you some advice. I'm keeping it constant, and I'm keeping it even better. It's Prime Minister's word. Here you go. [[Noise.]] [[14.30]]
u2022-11-02-139	Although I do not think it is important to talk about personal matters, I would like to note it to your attention, given that you probably do not know the relevant practice. According to the law, the Prime Minister could also live in a residence in Hungary. I don't live in residence, you don't pay for my expenses, you don't pay for my accommodation, you don't pay for my apartment, and you don't pay my rent, because I live in my private apartment, and I live the way I want to live there with my wife, but I'll keep my word: next week I'll send the expenses in detail, if you're interested. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-140	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. László György Lukács, Mr. Róbert Dudás and Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Mr Róbert Dudás will ask the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Last August I first drew attention to the fact that Magyar Posta is preparing for restructuring and closure. The pro-government media responded to it, they spent all their time telling the country that Róbert Dudás, the representative of the Parliament of Jobbik, was spreading false news. I think that the population of the countryside, and now, according to the news, the urban population, and I'll tell you honestly, I would have liked it, too, and we would have liked it if these were really false news, but at the same time they kept showing up on the Posta website, which offices they wanted to close in the future. The last announcement was the closure of 366 post offices in 210 settlements. Obviously, it's only temporary, because that's what they added. Mr. Prime Minister, They want to close it temporarily, so they'll reopen it in spring, and otherwise they've announced a group downsizing, and they'll send 300 people. When savings cooperatives were closed, a large part of it in the countryside, it was a serious cut in the lives of people living in the countryside. If the mail closes, it can mean the end of the rural financial administration, which can be very big problems. I am not in the habit of simply expressing criticism, because it is very important, by the way, that we find those responsible in one case, that the pursuit of a solution is more important than that. This morning, this morning, the Gambling Company. I held a press conference before, where I told you that last year the company with a net turnover of 701 billion dollars, which is otherwise in very serious tying with the Hungarian Post, should assist the Hungarian Post; not support the companies and persons close to the government year after year, but support the Hungarian Post. I wanted to talk to the principal, but he didn't see me, so I'd like to ask him to at least see you and do the same. That's the first step. And the second step is to make it legal. We can increase it to legal force by declaring and raising to the legal force that 500 people will be entitled to it in the case of post offices that are required to be open above the current thousand. I've already made a motion for a resolution, and you've rejected it, and now you're back in Parliament. Please talk to Szerencségy Zrt., and please talk to your fellow factions to support my decision proposal. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-02-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-143	Honourable Congressman, I don't think it has anything to do with this; it's a public company, it makes all the profits, it pays into the budget, and we spend it among the items of the budget you know. Since the budget is deficit, there is no additional revenue from Gambling that could be used to help any public company. The situation with Posta, on the other hand, is that we have been struggling with this problem for a long time, that Posta is a company and also a loss of money. You remember last year there was a conversation here, where it turned out that the State had to buy the Posta stamp collection in order to be able to provide money to the Posta in a legal way, because EU rules exclude the Hungarian State from providing support to a loss-making company. In any case, the Posta needs to be redesigned, if this does not happen, the quality of Posta services will continue to decline and the area of service will shrink. So please support the Hungarian Government so that we can complete the internal renewal of the Posta. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-144	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Róbert Dudás. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-145	We are in favour of any rational transformation, but the transformation cannot be that 366 are currently being closed across the country and who knows where it ends, because government statements have shown that otherwise we should be silent, because by 1600 we have legal regulations and guarantees, and now 2600 are open. You want to close down another thousand? Prime Minister, I came to you because you said that the company is a state company, although it has nothing to do with the Post Office, but it is a state company, which is why I came to you to influence them. A year ago, I asked you about fuel prices last, and you told me about my requests at the time that they could not be implemented. It's been a week, and yet the price cap that I suggested to you in the middle of October last year was introduced. Since then, it has been a huge propaganda around that has saved the gas supply of Hungarian people and the opportunity to refuel. Prime Minister, I would ask you to consider both through the Gambling Company and the legislative option I have proposed. If you announce this within a week, both I and a significant population of Hungary will be happy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-02-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-147	Just so we don't mix the season with the guy: so the price caps have nothing to do with any state company. MOL is not a state company. The price of petrol today is not provided to the citizens of Hungary through a public company, it is a misunderstanding. We weren't able to introduce a price cap because MOL was a state company, but we introduced it regardless. I don't remember exactly how I replied then, but I don't say no categorically when an idea isn't completely dead. We await further good suggestions. I repeat: We can only keep the Posta alive, at all, if we can maintain the quality of the services, or if we can improve it if we transform the internal structure of the Posta, because the government is banned from putting money into the Posta. Consequently, the Posta must be renewed. I hope that we can do this with as little pain as possible. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Head of the Szabó Timea Group, representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-11-02-149	Prime Minister, you filed last week a law on the death of the. lex, i.e. an amendment to the social law, which states that those who are poor will die. According to the current law, it is the responsibility of the State to provide social care. And in the amendment that you tabled, it is the individual's own responsibility from now on, and secondly the responsibility of the relatives, thirdly the municipalities, fourthly the charitable organisations, and only at the end, the fifth of the state in all of this. So this means that the state withdraws from social care in Hungarian. In addition, the representatives of your government have even said that it is such an old communist legacy, which has finally been dealt with: so in Hungarian you believe that care or care for the needy, the elderly, the sick is a communist legacy. It's interesting to say that when we have to use our money to care for and care for the Ripper, or your family, it's somehow not a communist legacy, unless it's something that needs to be done to the needy. In addition, Fidesz and you do this when we are facing the biggest social crisis in Hungary over the last thirty years. In the 22-hour debate, we didn't really get the answer to what this would mean. [[Bence Rétvári: You weren't even here, you left!]] And why this law was filed, so I'm asking you exactly what the enforcement laws are gonna say. What's the law about? What's the law? I mean, we think it's... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2022-11-02-150	Congresswoman, I warn you, you can't use any terms in Parliament. [[Szabó Timea: I use more than anything.]] So, please, use normal terms with something that can be said anywhere at any time.
u2022-11-02-151	That can be said anywhere, at any time, Mr. President. My question, Prime Minister, is once again: do you think that this will be about, in practice, that you will make hospital care pay? So if there's an elderly patient who can't be sent home, but can't be cured, they're gonna ask for 6 to 7,000 forints a day? If he can't pay for this, which will be deducted from his pension, which is a question of why he paid the social security all his life, then his relatives will pay about HUF 200,000 a month? Do you understand, Prime Minister, that this is the meaning of the law, which is the death of Lex? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause from the lines of Dialogue, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-02-152	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2022-11-02-153	There were no doubt such plans in the Gyurcsány government program, but that is, you know, there is no such government. On the other hand, I suggest that if we talk about people, the term "dead" may be omitted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is especially the case when we talk about fellow countrymen who, for some reason, need care or are sick. Therefore, I think it is repulsive to talk about the purpose of a law to regulate how our fellow Hungarians should die. I respectfully ask you not to do this. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] As regards the substance of the question, however, what is the role and role of the Hungarian State in the economy: firstly, we are pursuing an economic policy that gives us work instead of aid. We're building a work-based economy. Therefore, the primary concern of the government is that if the private economy cannot give people jobs, the state should help them to work. We do this job, it's the greatest help we can give people. This means that today there are 4 million 700 thousand people working in Hungary, 1 million more jobs in Hungary than they were under your government. As regards social, child protection and child welfare services, which are included together in the budget: I would like to remind you that, in contrast to your governance, let us say, we will spend three and a half times more money on social, child protection and child welfare services the following year compared to 2010. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-154	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction.
u2022-11-02-155	Prime Minister, the thing is, I'm not really interested in what's so repulsive about you. For example, I like the fact that you gave 47 billion forints last week to new stadium constructions. Now, when there is a crisis, plus 47 billion have been allocated to the sports and leisure center in Ferencváros, the small castles, the Nyíregyháza, or I don't know what else, and we could name it. 47 billion forints! Now, that's the flashback. But I also like the fact that you didn't answer my question again. Social law is about what happens when someone can't work anymore. My question was not how many jobs you have created, but what will happen to those who will not be able to work without their own faults and what will happen to elderly patients in bed. So the state is fifth in line, in Hungarian, you do not wish to care for those in need. That's what lex means, you're dead. Prime Minister, you lied for the third, fourth time. First, he said there would be no tax increase, and then that there would be no austerity, there would be a reduction in the rent. All three of them were lies, and now that's a lie. Thank you for your answer. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-11-02-156	In a one-minute rejoinder, I give the floor to Prime Minister, if he considers these questions worthy of answering at all. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Unbiased housekeeping!]]
u2022-11-02-157	I'm happy to answer because I think I can help. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Hope is the last thing that dies. First of all, we didn't make any decisions about any new stadium construction. That doesn't correspond to reality. [[Szabó Timea: Extra money has been set aside!]] The fact is that a few years ago, the mayor of Budapest and I agreed that there would be an athletic world championship, which is currently preparing a stadium, but we did not make any decisions on any new stadium construction, honourable Member. I would like to reiterate that there are three times as many social and child protection expenditures in the next year's budget compared to 2010. That's progress. That's a real achievement. Hungary does not reduce social care, but develops it. As for the order, when, how, why should you stand: I think it is very right that there is a final refuge, there is a final character, who, in the event that no one else can stand, is at the disposal of all Hungarian citizens, and this is the Hungarian state. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-158	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr.Előd Novák and Mr.László Toroczkai Group leader, representatives of Mi Hazánk, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Will there be a turn or will we run towards our loss?" It's an address. [[Szabó Timea and Dialogue representatives leave the meeting room. Noise on the pro-government side.]] Congressman Novak... [[László Toroczkai: I ask the question.]] My apologies. The faction leader wasn't in there before. I'm giving the floor to Mr. Team Leader. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In recent months, the government has made it clear that it intends to continue to follow the same economic policy that has been followed in the past 12 years and previously by Balliberal governments, and this is about nothing more than wanting to favour global large companies, multinationals, instead of Hungarian workers and Hungarian SMEs, Hungarian businesses. The government seems not to want to change that, but to create an increasingly serious situation. While global large companies are being supported and the BMW investment in Debrecen is currently under way, and we see that the government has supported the development of an economic zone around BMW by HUF 120 billion, with a large global company in particular, while BMW is building the plant with a Turkish company in the 400-hectare area. So we sacrificed four Margaret Islands of agricultural land to build its plants with a Turkish company, and it is not impossible that this plant will also operate with cheap guest workers. The question is, what will the Hungarians benefit from it? The loss of 400 hectares of high quality agricultural land is certainly a disadvantage. While the government continues to support such global large companies with massive billions of public funds, we see that the Hungarian governments are completely bleeding out. After all, he not only sends the people in trouble to the municipalities that came close to bankruptcy, who could count on the state before, but we also learned that for example, MVM, which is a state-owned company, thus a national-owned company, offers energy to Hungarian municipalities at 25 and 32 times the price. This is completely absurd, and the municipalities will obviously fail in a row. It's quite amazing and priceless. Hungarian businesses are also confronted with energy prices that are completely out of place and receive offers from service providers that have not been the case so far.
u2022-11-02-160	It's a two-minute genre. We're at two minutes and 20 seconds. I'd like to ask the question.
u2022-11-02-161	My short question is that the government wants to change the economic policy that helps multinationals, global corporations instead of Hungarians, Hungarian governments and Hungarian businesses. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-02-162	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-163	Honourable Member, the governing parties see that the economic policy of the last 12 years has been particularly successful, so it must not be changed, but strengthened. If we can achieve a million new jobs in a country over a year, that economic policy must not be changed but pursued. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: In ten years!]] Sorry, if we reach 1 million jobs in 10 years between 2010 and 22nd, it must not be changed, but it must continue. If you look at the full list of subsidies, who we support from the taxpayers' forints in Hungary, what business activity we support, you will find that many times, I think, you could get about ten times the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises from budgetary sources, like multinational companies. As far as Turkish migrant workers are concerned because you asked at least five questions, the fact is that there is a very clear rule in Hungary: we grant permits to as many migrant workers as there are vacant posts in Hungary. The thing is, there is a job because the economy is growing in ways that Hungarians can't do anymore. In these places, we are forced to issue guest workers' permits, or that work is not done. We will support multinationals to a lesser extent than Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in the future, because there are things that Hungarian companies are unfortunately unable to produce, but at the same time they are necessary for the technological development of the country: say, vehicles, aircraft or military products. In these places, we need the knowledge and technology that Western companies now bring in, and where tens and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians can earn their living. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-164	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, the word is given to László Toroczkai, leader of the faction. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-165	Prime Minister! I quote László Parragh, Chairman of the Chamber of Industry, who said that our competitiveness is based on cheap labour, some people dare to say that some people don't. My question is, Prime Minister, who dares to say the same thing. What we are currently seeing is that, while there are really vacant posts, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians were forced to flee to Western Europe, who strengthen the national economy in Austria and Germany, and not in Hungary, precisely because the Hungarian government creates conditions that, for example, Hungarian businesses are unable to generate competitive wages that are needed, or VAT is taking away, tax duration takes away the part of the wage that the Hungarian worker can make a living from. If the government wishes to continue with this policy, it is no wonder that there will be a shortage of labour, as Hungarians will be forced to flee Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]] [[14.50]]
u2022-11-02-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-167	Thank you very much. The Hungarian economy is indeed a work-based economy, but we believe in the skilled workforce, so we do not believe in the cheapness of the labour force, but in its quality, and if you listen to any investor who comes to Hungary, you will tell you that today you are not coming here because you hope for cheap labour, because it is much easier to find from us to the south and east than here; those who come here are due to the disciplined, well-trained, good quality Hungarian labour force. Otherwise, in the last two or three years, fewer people from the country went to work abroad than the ones who came home. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So I think the trends are rather good. I'm not saying it's a good situation. It's far from me, but it's getting better. One proof of this is that, if you look at it, during the Gyurcsány government, the average wage was lower than the minimum wage during the current period of civil economic policy, and this is a huge achievement. [[László Toroczkai: Good, but the money is bad!]] So Hungary continues to believe in the well-trained, well-working Hungarian workforce. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-168	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Members of the LMP, Lóránt Keresztes László and Máté Kanász-Nagy, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt, has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you two questions, and one of the issues in which even the Prime Minister may not say that the government has been successful for the past 12 years is the situation in the drinking water supply and the crisis situation in the water utilities sector. We have known for many years that the water utility sector is on the verge of collapse, and in 2017 the Association of City Rights specifically said that the situation of the water utilities sector is critical, since then local government associations and professional organisations have asked the government to take some meaningful action. The fact is today that 25 percent of the drinking water produced simply flows away without use because of poor water utilities. In the last ten years, the number of failures has doubled, i.e. the number of pipe breaks, and today only 20 percent of the water systems are qualified. In recent times, the government has not been able to give a meaningful answer to the profession, to the people concerned, and a process has now been launched that can be called such enforced nationalisation, since the government has sent a message to the cities that they will receive support only if the urban utility assets are transferred free of charge. It is no wonder that many cities, Budapest, Pécs, Debrecen, Szeged, Érd, Szombathely, and I might add that they do not transfer the most important infrastructure to the government. The toughest criticism was perhaps formulated by the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen, who said that the water supply is also a strategic plant, which cannot be released by the municipality, and, by the way, the municipality of Debrecen, in its adopted decision, said that they did not see any guarantee that the government could finance maintenance replacement at all and that the conditions were not clarified here. Prime Minister, water supply has been compromised in the medium term in Hungary, and our water resources, our water bases have been protected. What exactly does the government intend to do to save the water utility sector and what can it do to safeguard the stability of drinking water supply? Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-11-02-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-171	Honourable Congressman, We are facing two major unsolved challenges, both of which are essentially a question of money and not of intent. One of them is the transformation of the Hungarian electricity supply system, which is related to one of your main themes, the . Green energy programme and the.Livable Hungary, and we need HUF 16 000 billion to create a pipeline system where alternative energy sources can be fed into. Our other big problem, our big system problem is drinking water, what you've been talking about. These two things are pushing us. We are talking about thousands of billions of forints here too. I very much hope that next year's budget will help us to survive the high energy prices of the current sanctions, and that the sanctions premium can be paid by the budget in terms of energy, and that we can talk intelligently about these developments in the next year. If the European Union gives us the resources that we have allocated for this purpose, then it will be easier, if not, then we will have to raise funds from the financial markets, which we will discuss in Parliament's debate on the budget of 24 as I hope. Until then, we can only survive in terms of water supply. By the way, there is no forced nationalisation, so the State does not wish to take over the municipalities, especially the water utilities by force. If they hand it over because they can't operate it, then we take it, if they can't or don't want to hand it over, then keep it, but then we can't promise full support, then we have to bear the burden of the local government-owned water utilities together in some proportion of the proportion and negotiations are taking place. We are negotiating with all municipalities that do not wish to hand over their water utilities, but would like to keep and operate them in the future. We will agree with them, and we can give them some support so that they can survive the next difficult year. Modernization may, however, begin at the earliest, in the longer term. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-172	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Keresztes.
u2022-11-02-173	Thank you, Mr. President. The bad news, Prime Minister, is that according to the profession and according to the stakeholders, there is not enough money in this year's budget to survive, and there is little money in next year's budget, and there is no budgetary funding in addition to nationalisation, under or behind state responsibilities, additional tasks. But I have one more question, Prime Minister. LMP has been asking questions about green energy a lot, and for years we have been urging the government not to restrict, prohibit, but to support green energy, and we have been fighting for a very long time to ensure that wind energy is not banned by the government and its wider use is not prohibited by administrative means. On 26 September, my fellow Member had already asked the Prime Minister a question about wind power plants, and the Prime Minister replied that this is a sort of decision preparation within the government, but on Thursday, last Thursday, Minister Palkovics said at a conference that the government could give a green light to wind power. My question concerns, Prime Minister, that you can confirm that Minister Palkovic has declared a government position, so the government has made its decision. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we, as the Green Party of Hungary, can finally be pleased that this decision is finally taken by the government, and it is now possible to provide more space for green energy in this way, using wind energy. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2022-11-02-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the Prime Minister's word. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-175	Then we are not in a rejoinder, but in another matter, this is a question of wind energy; then the water is closed or at least postponed. As far as wind power is concerned, the government has not made any such decision. I repeat: while everyone knows that solar and wind energy are cheap, this is not the reality. These are the two most expensive energy, because in the event that we create capacities, solar and wind energy, after the wind is not always blowing and the sun is not always shining, in order to maintain the voltage in the system, which is necessary to deliver energy, we need to buy energy of the same size. We produce one unit of energy, and we buy another one that doubles the price. That's why green energy is the most expensive. I don't want to have this debate about nuclear energy with you again, but believe me, the government has reason to believe that Paks II. Without its construction and installation, we cannot provide cheap energy to industry and the population in Hungary in the longer term. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-176	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. The left is selling Hungary for dollars? It's an address. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, More than six months have passed since the parliamentary elections, when the left suffered a historic defeat. Despite the fact that they have been mantrasing together for many years, this has been the case. The pre-written recipe was carefully followed, but the final result was terrible, even though, as it turned out, the ingredients were generously provided from abroad. Yes, thanks to Péter Márki-Zay's statement on live television, it was made public that he managed the left with an amount of around HUF 2 billion. It also turned out that even in the summer, hundreds of millions of forints came from America into his movement's account. The grants came from the US Foundation Action for Democracy, and from the dollars not only came to the Márki-Zay movement, but also to the Data Data that could be linked to the Bajnai Gordon, which could work illegally with stolen data to influence the election result. The left-wing portal, the American Népszava, already provides articles on the fact that the Hungarian left has committed lawlessness, as well as mention that the president of the MMM has also offered to the teachers' organizers money that came from the United States. This means that the left hand is using the rest of the money, declaredly, for the purposes of replacing Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, to organise demonstrations, because the customers do not like that we are political in the interests of Hungary. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] [[15.00]] Dear Minister, I believe that the data I mentioned shows that the Hungarian left serves foreign interests in the hope of political advantage, betraying Hungary's national sovereignty. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] On the basis of what has been said, I respectfully ask Minister: does the left really sell Hungary for dollars? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás to answer, please, Minister.
u2022-11-02-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The situation, as we know today, is perfectly clear: since 1990, the laws in force in Hungary, especially the party law, prohibit the adoption of support from a foreign organisation, whether from a Hungarian legal person or from a foreign individual for political purposes, or from a party in general. The status of the All-Hungary Movement in the election is proved by nothing more than the fact that in the posters opposition parties, Jobbik, DK, Dialogue for Hungary were included in their logo. This is, therefore, obviously an illegal grant and an unlawfully accepted aid which is further aggravated by the thorough suspicion that DataData also received money and, moreover, DataAd was using resources which were already obtained illegally from abroad for the purpose of persuasion of personal data. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] This is therefore a serious matter; I see that they are in the opposition, who feel that they may be able to speak as a result of personal involvement. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] That's probably true, but it doesn't change the fact that the country's sovereignty has been seriously attacked. After all, it came from an organization of an allied state, an organization of an allied state, with a governing body of known public figures, to support nearly 2 billion or more forints of self-religion in order not to govern the country by those who have so far governed it, and to bring it to power by those from whom the Hungarian people did not ask. The case should therefore be investigated. The National Security Committee has already ordered an investigation in this regard and reports of personal data abuse have also been made. It is in the interests of everyone who believes that Hungary should remain a sovereign country, that the facts should be fully explored and, if necessary, other proceedings or prosecutions should be carried out. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-180	Thank you very much, Minister. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Barna Sigmond, please.
u2022-11-02-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Minister. There was indeed an unprecedented fraud scandal in the history of Hungarian democracy. Remember, the left and so-called independent, objective experts kept attacking the elections, saying that the elections weren't legal, and then it turned out that they were the ones who cheated, not in any way. Hungarian history, the biggest fraud in the history of democracy, received illegal money from abroad, this is the charge; data were illegally used, they were taken abroad, and we do not forget that they tried to discredit the institution of the vote on the letter. Let us recall that they were trying to discredit the letter vote when there were provocations committed in Vojvodina or in Târgu Mureş, and we do not know who the unsubs were. I recently wrote a letter to the D.A. in Târgu Mures, hoping to find out who the perpetrators were there. Overall, I hope that the Hungarian law enforcement authorities will reveal these frauds and hold those who have committed these lawlessness accountable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Gulyás Gergely for a one-minute rejoinder, please.
u2022-11-02-183	We see that, indeed, there were roll-over dollars that came to the opposition, supported the opposition's campaign, and, moreover, in the same way that it happened on the side of the GDR, where certain funds were found to be received by the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party; now they are recorded in Szegi, the Democratic Coalition is registered there, and the opposition is registered there on the basis of the news. So it seems that, indeed, a whole network has been created in order to deny reality as much as possible and to conceal from the public that the Hungarian leftist, without support, without financial and political support, wanted to solve the financial part of the lack of support from the United States. We can be glad that the political part of the lack of support has not been resolved, and the Hungarian voters have not even been willing to vote for them with so much money behind their backs. In any case, this praises the wisdom of voters. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-184	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How can we defend ourselves against the new migratory flows generated by the food crisis caused by sanctions? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári has been appointed to answer. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting this. Congressman László Szászfalvi, please.
u2022-11-02-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In addition to the serious consequences of the war in our neighbourhood, the misguided sanctions in Brussels and the crisis caused by sanctions, we are getting news every day about new and new migrant groups trying to break through our southern border. The migratory pressure that threatens Hungary continues to persist, and on the contrary, the food crisis caused by the war situation only seems to increase. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] Illegal immigrants waiting across the border are becoming more aggressive and impatient. Their violent behavior is well known, it is enough to think only of their aggressive actions against police officers, soldiers, border fighters, local residents, the harassment of women, their arson in arbitrary houses. But it has now become apparent that, in most cases, armed while the use of firearms is not deterred. They are therefore rightly concerned by the fact that both those living along the border and the entire population of the country can easily become victims of these unscrupulous illegal immigrants either near the border or within the country. Moreover, their entry into the country continues to be steadily supported by smugglers of various countries and by smugglers who operate behind their backs with a well-organized criminal network in areas and migrant routes distributed among themselves on the Serbian side of the border section. Dear Secretary of State, We can all see the serious impact of failed sanctions in Brussels on food supply. The surge in gas prices has increased the costs of agricultural and industrial production, while the drastic rise in oil prices has increased transport costs to a high degree. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, With all due respect, how can we defend ourselves against the new migratory flows generated by the food crisis caused by sanctions? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give you the floor for the answer, Deputy Minister Bene Rétvári, Secretary of State, please.
u2022-11-02-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I was at the southern border last week, so let me give you a few words about the conditions that prevail there. On the night of October 24th, the signal system indicated that smugglers were moving more crowds across the border, as usual, to the alert. When the police chased the smugglers, they shot them in their direction with a firearm, and when they approached them, the smugglers used tear gas against the police. That's the way it is. When we watch videos of the captures there, what we can see is that when the police arrive, the border hunters arrive, it's not what we think logically, they see them, they run away, they try to run away, so they don't get caught, but they see a battle scene, they look for what's going on in their hands, and they throw them at the cops. They are not fleeing, they are not saying that I will try again in two days, they are trying to break through the Hungarian border and the Hungarian police. They are not only destroying the fence, they are physically attacking even police officers protecting the Hungarian border. That's why setting up border hunting units was important. That is why it is important to strengthen the fence. On the fence we place a so-called swan fin, a Y-shaped well, with barbed wire on both sides and in the middle, so that it is more difficult for illegal migrants to pass ladders and put another smaller Y in front of the fence, so that they can hardly support their ladders. I mean, even though there's a very thick iron grill used in concrete, it's already in the fence, and it's got motion sensors and electric currents, but they're still coming in bulk. 234 thousand people have tried to cross this year. We have captured 1624 smugglers, which we have never seen before in 2015. 894 border hunters have already entered into contracts, they have already strengthened the southern border, but they also feel it on the other side. There's a midlife crisis in human smugglers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They feel the border is strengthened, they feel the border hunters are coming, so they bring more and more people to the border. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2022-11-02-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-189	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. The migration line should be pushed further south with the help of neighbouring countries. To this end, it is great that the positions of Austria, Serbia and Hungary are common positions, and governments are doing so. This line of defence must therefore be pushed to the Serbian-North Macedonian border. We also know, and we must say again and again, that illegal migration and smuggling of people are crimes and must be dealt with accordingly. More and more countries recognise that we should focus on border surveillance rather than quotas that are urgent for distribution, against the European Union's seriously failed migration policy. Therefore, we continue to support the government's consistent and decisive policy in the protection of Hungarian borders and Hungarian families. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It also shows how afraid people are of border fighters, that they tried to infiltrate, sign up for training, but they couldn't get started, because the National Defence Service ruled them out, and they couldn't start training. You have also mentioned quotas, honourable Member. When I was in Luxembourg, it was as if it were a parallel reality among home affairs ministers who considered voluntary resettlement a success, this quota, because 74 people were transferred from Italy to Germany in two years. More than a thousand people want to cross the Hungarian southern border every day, but according to the Brussels position 74 people are transferred to prove that this method works. We have spent over 600 billion forints to protect the southern border. Only in prisons, the extra supply costs of the smugglers there are HUF 3 billion per year. A smuggler costs us 5 million forints because they are sentenced to a long prison sentence of 4-5 years. Brussels is our debtor, we have secured it, we have advanced the protection of the European border, and we have already spent more than 600, nearly 650 billion forints, and it is time to pay off their debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! MEP László Kordás, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What can we expect, Prime Minister? Mr László Kordás has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Klára Dobrev, leader of the shadow government [[An uproar, an uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] in the campaign for elections to the European Parliament, he promised that he would fight for Hungarian workers to have a minimum wage in Europe, also in Hungary, a regulation that would allow them to work at a significantly higher minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage than is today. His struggle was successful. Almost two months ago, the European Parliament adopted a directive on adequate and equitable minimum wages applicable in the EU. Member States have two years to transpose this into domestic law and take it over. The Hungarian minimum wage is one of the lowest in the EU, with a conversion of EUR 542 in January; there was only less in Bulgaria, Latvia and Romania. Today, it is only 480 euros, because the exchange rate of the forint has fallen ever since. As the Romanian currency exchange rate is stable and Latvia uses euro, only Bulgaria is left behind. Unfortunately, the rate of rise in the minimum wage does not encourage much Hungarian workers. Ten years ago, outside these three countries, we were ahead of Estonia and Lithuania, and we were standing at about the same level as the Czech Republic. Of course, there is no question, nor has it ever been, that the EU should have a uniform minimum wage, but the methodology on which it is calculated is yes. However, we can talk a great deal about how the minimum wage should be set at home, so as to ensure that a decent living is covered. [[Bence Rétvári: You have failed on the government.]] This could be a fixed calculation method in line with the Directive's recommendation, half of the average wage at any time or 60% of the median wage value. Today's minimum wage of HUF 200,000 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] only two fifths of the average wage and about half of the median wage. That is why I ask Prime Minister: when are you willing to discuss this regulation with the social partners, and when are you willing to introduce it, to transpose EU standards into domestic law? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-195	Dear fellow Member, Since you referred to the former governing party, I must remind you of the simple fact that when you governed, the average wage was lower than the minimum wage right now. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So I look forward to and accept all the proposals that you are making, but some moderation, if there is any way to put it next to it, given that I believe that in the last 12 years the Hungarian economy has been more successful in giving people a higher minimum wage than at the time of your governance. It's two numbers, it's not that hard to compare. By the way, I am still in favour of the minimum wage being agreed between employers and employees. If it were a public economy, of course, the state could easily set the minimum wage, but fortunately Hungary has a private economy, and the two major players in the private economy, employers and employees, must agree on the minimum wage. For its part, the Hungarian Government will do everything in its power to make an agreement with each other, given that the economic consequences of the minimum wage will be borne by the two employers and workers. It is therefore appropriate not to change the current minimum wage. By the way, this year the minimum wage has increased by 20 percent in Hungary, which I think was perhaps the largest increase in Europe, and we will do everything we can to ensure that it continues to grow in the future. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-196	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Kordás. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-197	Prime Minister, I don't think you've answered the question. You were talking about statistics for the last eight years 12 years ago. Let me tell you one thing. If 50 percent of the average salary was now the minimum wage, it would mean at least 30 thousand HUF net more for the employees who are employed on this salary, so the net minimum wage of 133 thousand HUF could immediately rise to 163 thousand HUF. I think that this could be a very serious help for workers who are employed at minimum wage, but it would also be a very important help for those who earn a guaranteed minimum wage. Let me tell you one thing about the European minimum wage regulation. The Czech Minister for Labour and Social Affairs commented on the directive when it was adopted: when people have to consider every penny of expenditure twice as a result of the energy crisis [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This legislation carries a message of hope. You are taking away this message of hope from employees at this cost. [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-02-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-11-02-199	I thought we were talking peacefully, but if we're not, we're not. May I remind you that you were a secretary of state in that left-wing government, after all? Well, you were the Secretary of State. [[László Kordas nods.]] All I have to say to you is that you and you have raised the minimum wage to 23,500 forints in eight years. What do you want from us? [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-200	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, We've reached the end of today's immediate questions. I'm taking a 16-hour break. (Speech: 15.19 16.03) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-11-02-201	Dear Parliament, The political debate on the future of our children, the quality and conditions of public education will follow, initiated by Endre Tóth and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/1550. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Vinnai, Mr Vice-President, to explain the course of the political debate.
u2022-11-02-202	Dear Parliament, First, the statement of the representative of the Government takes place in a 40-minute period, followed by the opening speech by the author in a 20-minute period, followed by a speech by the lead speakers of each political group in 10-10 minutes, followed by the first independent Member. After that, further speeches can be made within the remaining timeframe, then the author's closing will take place in a 20-minute time frame, and finally the representative of the Government will respond to the discussions in 20 minutes.
u2022-11-02-203	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Szabó, notary Sándor, to explain each time frame.
u2022-11-02-204	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 23 minutes for the DK Group, 18 minutes for the MSZP Group, 18 minutes for the Momentum Group, 17 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 14 minutes for the Dialogue Group, 14 minutes for the Group of Hungary, 13 minutes for the Group of the LMP and 3 minutes for independent and ethnic representatives. The time limits provided for the factions include the 10-10 minutes lead speakers.
u2022-11-02-205	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the Government's statement, presented by two speakers, takes place within a total of 40 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Today's debate is important and useful for a number of reasons, and we are happy for it. [[Bence of Turda: You're welcome!]] For one thing, teachers are not an abstract concept or statistical data for us. For many of us, one or more parents are teachers, brothers, children, cousins, and many of their friends. We see them every day and talk to them. We have grown up, and our days are spent hearing directly from them both the beauty and the difficulties of education, and as politicians, we meet from week to week in the schools of our district. So education is a personal matter for us, not a dry policy. On the other hand, politicians are going to argue with each other here today, not teachers, not interest representatives, but decision-making party politicians. We're finally face-to-face, right-hand and left-hand side, and the left-hand side can't hide or talk side-by-side. This is not the field of the campaign's usual promise, but the comparison of performances: what we have done and what the left has done. Authenticity is given by actions: school building or school closure, wage increase or wage reduction, scholarship or mass dismissal. So let's put it on the scale today, who did what? Thirdly, we are also happy about this debate because it would require a number of debate days of time if we went through in detail all the educational innovations that have taken place in the last 12 years. It's far from the point, but there's gonna be a list of our results. Fourthly, everyone knows that we need wage increases for teachers. There's gonna be a pay raise in two months. The issue is, therefore, not the fact of raising wages, but the extent of the increase in wages. We can speak here today that the government has already recorded before the first speaker of the autumn protest or strike that it agrees with the main demand, the wage increase. In fact, at the beginning of the summer, we have already recorded the fact of a wage increase in the Financial Act and the EFOP Plus programme sent to the European Commission. The question now is that only HUF 80 billion is available in the budget, or we can use as a surplus the hundreds of billions of forints that are an EU resource. Depends on the 10 or 21 percent of 2023, 10 or 25 percent of 2024. How long will the left prevent EU funds from being available to raise teachers' wages? [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] So we made legislation to meet the teachers' demands before the demands were made publicly in the fall. We stand by teachers not only in words but also in actions. There will be more people speaking on this debate day. I am talking primarily about why the debate day is important, why the left is two-faced and what government decisions have been made in recent years. Secretary of State Maruzsa will tell us where we are on the road to becoming one of the most competitive education systems in Europe in Hungary [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] and what international recognitions the Hungarian education system has. We are not at the end of the line, as our laughing fellow Members say from week to week, who are always disparaging the work of Hungarian teachers, but we do achieve very nice positions, and Mr State Secretary will also talk about teachers' numbers and questionnaires. Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos will talk about the further development of vocational training, and Mr Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, will present to Parliament all the evidence that makes it clear how the left is preventing us from raising teachers' wages from EU funds. [[16.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The left doesn't respect teachers, he just wants to take advantage of them, but we've been governing in the spirit of respect for the last 12 years. What did the left do when he was in a decision - making situation? First, they took a month's wages from all teachers. That's an 8 percent drop in salary. Today we are active politicians who voted for this: Gergely Arató, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Hiller, Csaba Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju, and many others are sitting in the parliamentary horseshoe, who recently voted for a reduction in teachers' wages. The same people dismissed 15,000 teachers, and now they're talking about missing teachers. The teaching was stopped at 381 places. Underfunded municipal schools, which led to HUF 1300 billion municipal debt. They raised textbook prices by 70 percent and made teacher training a student. But we don't have to go to the past to see a disrespectful voice against teachers. In recent months, during the election campaign, what did András Fekete-Győr say about the work of Hungarian teachers? We have an immense number of schools, and they have a very poor quality. I think there are too many schools in Hungary right now. He talked about school closures and a lot of quality education, thus qualifying the teachers' work. The shadow minister of the left said about the teacher's wage increase that teachers do not need the pre-election government business. They're talking about a raise. At the time, they said it was just a trinket, so there's no need for that. And how did the shadow minister of the left-wing shadow government, Gergely Arató, when he was a secretary of state for education, talk about professional dialogue and educating medals? He said literally: "The demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not dissuaded by the original intention of the demonstration. This was, therefore, the social dialogue that the left had announced that they would not change anything. But Gergely Christmas also said that our pre-2010 education system was also very poorly performed in this way, and that as a shadow minister, a man was chosen as a shadow minister of education who was convicted by the court of a group, armed and disorderly crime. So he's the left-wing shadow minister. That's the respect for teachers. While the left is using teachers, we respect them. We respect our own teachers, who were part of our standing here today and sitting here in the house of the country, and we respect the teachers working today. The first group to whom we started a wage increase was teachers, we raised wages by 50 percent between 2013-17, by another 10 percent from July 2020 and by another 10 percent from January this year. At the same time, we're going to do a lot more than that. If an agreement is reached with the European Commission, the largest increase in teachers' wages has occurred in Hungary since the change of regime. Our aim is to ensure that by 2025, teachers pay 80% of the average salary. In 2023 we want nearly 21 per cent, in 24 we want a 25 per cent wage increase and in 2025 we want a 29 per cent wage increase. If this is the case, the average salary of the educator may be higher than HUF 777 thousand by 2025. The planned wage increase for underprivileged children teachers is even higher. It is important that the EU resource is not a matter of donation or goodwill. This amount is the Hungarian people's money, which is being unfairly withheld from Hungarian people, including Hungarian teachers. And it is outrageous that Hungarian politicians in Brussels and left-wing Hungarian politicians take the lead in this. It is not enough that Brussels, with one hand, does not give us what is ours, but takes what we have with the other. This is done by means of sanctions, because if there were no penalty premium, there would be much more to be paid to teachers. But how did Klára Dobrev, the shadow-minister of the pro-sanctioned left speak about sanctions? I'm not satisfied with the sanctions so far. I am pleased that there have been very serious responses, but they are not sufficient. We will not back down, we will also vote for the strictest sanctions. å Did you think about the wages of Hungarian teachers? Or when Gergely Christmas said that,, I am glad that the sanction package was in place, and Hungary could not ultimately prevent it, and there are tools for the Commission and the European Union to make the Hungarian government understand better if they want to pursue a further sanctions policy. Have you considered that with these words, those funds are being taken out of the budget as a penalty premium, which could also be used to raise teachers' wages? So the left is telling teachers to settle for less, because sanctions are necessary and work. What Brussels gives with one hand, it takes with the other. Due to the sanctions, this money lands in the pockets of large energy companies instead of Hungarian teachers. But let's look at the most important innovations, developments, progress that have taken place in the last 12 years. We have made schools a public reservation to eliminate the system that the poorer municipality can only have a poorer school, and we have also abolished the system that teachers' salaries did not always arrive on time in small settlements. We've made all the school textbook packages free of charge. Instead of abroad, we took the textbook development into Hungarian government hands. We developed new generation textbooks together with teachers and students over three years. We created the smart portal, also known as the National Public Education Portal, which is visited by over half a million people a week. We developed digital textbooks. Contributed patriotic, child-centred and XXI. We have established a national basic curriculum of the century. Between school, students and parents, paper communication has been replaced by the KRÉTA, the digital system used by 130 thousand teachers, 1 million students and 2 million parents every day. More than 3 million grades are recorded each week in the KRÉTA. We have also created a new digital language education module based on artificial intelligence in the KRÉTA. We have tripled the sources of the children's meals, ten times the resources of the school milk and school fruit program. In the new NAT, we increased the free-to-use watch frame of teachers from 10 percent to 20 percent. The new NAT also reduced the amount of teaching material and required hours, while maximizing the clock load of students. We've nearly doubled the number of school psychologists. We also nearly doubled the number of teachers. We've built a warning system to prevent dropout. We've extended the children's homes and schools for sure. We've implemented the school security system. More than 40,000 underprivileged students are assisted by scholarships each year, mainly through the Travel Scholarship Programme. We help diabetic students by using a school-supported program to measure blood glucose and inject insulin. We introduced the school community service to give students a taste of volunteering and civilian work during high school. In recent years, 435,000 students have completed a total of 21 million volunteer hours. We've introduced everyday physical education. Hungarian primary schoolchildren spend most of their time in physical education in Europe. We've launched the NETFIT scans. We've introduced a mandatory kindergarten from the age of 3. We've made the KRESZ course free of charge. We made the first language exam free. [[16.20]] So far, 141 thousand language exams have been passed, saving more than 4.5 billion forints for students and their families. We have made the second qualification free, which has nearly tripled the number of students in such training. We have launched the Lázár Ervin program so that all children can go to theatre, concerts, circuses, or even knight shows free of charge. We've launched the limitless! program to get to know each other as many mother and foreign students as possible. We have launched school topics that go beyond traditional school frameworks on sustainability, digitalisation and financial awareness. Nearly 400 thousand students participated in these innovative projects. In 1925 schools there was an internet band expansion; 3957 school buildings built Wi-Fi. We built 32 new swimming pools, 42 new gymnasiums, 33 schools, and built 7 completely new ones. Within the framework of the modern city programme and the Hungarian village programme, more than HUF 60 billion of school development is carried out in 237 settlements. We bought hundreds of thousands of laptops and IT tools for teachers and students. Over the past five years, 4576 kindergarten and school development has been launched and implemented for nearly HUF 1000 billion. And when we had to, we corrected: instead of KLIK, the school district institutional supporters came, and we also changed the textbook development. And you don't think anything's happened in education in the last 12 years? According to the left, these are XIX. "Century methods"? Or are you just repeating the same old record without thinking about it? A few words about the negotiations. The government has consulted teachers' unions four times since the elections, and negotiations will continue next week at the request of interest representatives. May I remind you that at the meeting of the Round Table on Public Education held in early October, the representative of the trade unions asked that the wages of teachers should not rise to 80 percent of the average salary, but earlier. Then Minister Gergely Gulyás announced on the Government Info that the government's target date was not 2027, but 2025 if we could use our own EU funds. Therefore, no one can say that there is no point in a consultation, after which the government announces the schedule requested by those involved in the conciliation a week and a half. At the same time, we can see that the left has tried to settle for these movements in recent weeks. We regret that they are also trying to settle for this national issue, because there are few people at their political events, so they go where there are many people. The politicians of the left began to appear at these movements even though several educational actors asked for no politicians to participate in these teacher demonstrations. [[Szabolcs Szabó: No such thing!]] A representative of the Single Student Front said, "Thanks, no." We'll work it out, students, teachers and parents together. And the PDSZ said, "We expect the opposition parties to stay in the background, not to settle for our actions, because there is a strong grudge against the parties in society. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, But politicians also spoke. Ander Balázs from Jobbik said: . Being a leech and possessing the independent wave of protests of teachers and students is more than counterproductive. Or Mayor Tamás Soproni said, "You shouldn't bake a political bake" in connection with the protests. As a footnote, both of them finally went out and self-parked during the protests. Ferenc Gyurcsány gave the order:. Asking the party politicians not to make a statement is actually stupid. It's a literal quote from him. Even about the 22-hour debate of the Social Affairs Act, our fellow Members suddenly evaporated when they had to go outside to make live-chain selfies in the morning. And yes, if you look at the top 3, you can see that Szabó Timea didn't have half a dozen selfies in common, András Jámbor runs the top 3 list with 8 selfies or Bence Tordai with 10 selfies. [[Defiance in the ranks of Momentum.]] If this is not the case for educators, then what is it, my fellow Members? And while on the street they demand a teacher's wage increase, while here in Parliament they do not vote for proposals that bring us closer to the EU agreement and to the higher, higher rate of teacher's wage increase. The motions for urgent negotiations were not voted here on 3 October. On 24 October, neither the amendment of the legislative law nor the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings was supported. They did not support the amendment of anti-corruption legislation, the establishment of the Integrity Authority, the amendment of the info law or the rule on the declaration of assets, even though they would have brought us closer to the agreement and the higher scale of the Hungarian teacher's wage increase, but it was not enough for the Hungarian left. Ladies and Gentlemen, Kunó Klebelsberg, who became Minister of Interior, said that we must raise today a generation that will in 20 years' time be able to compete with generations of other peoples of that time. We agree with Kuno Klebelsberg, we are on his path. We have no quarrel with the Hungarian teachers because we work for them. We have no quarrel with Hungarian students because we work for their future. We only have an argument with the left because they don't work for national interests, they're two-faced. I hope that by the end of today, they will take a 180-degree turn and no longer hinder higher-scale wage increases for teachers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Let national consensus be a matter for educators to raise wages. From now on, do not vote for anything in Brussels that prevents teachers from raising their wages, and vote for anything that will help raise the Hungarian teacher's wage. Be brave, be humane, stop raising teachers' wages with their policies from Brussels and vote in favour of Hungary once and for all. Hungarian teachers deserve to join forces on the right and on the left. Not party politics, but the future of the nation in the wage increase, and let us stand united for the future of Hungarian education. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of the 40-minute time frame, 20 minutes and 40 seconds remain. I give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior.
u2022-11-02-208	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to talk about the quality of Hungarian public education. This is important, since every year since 2010, we hear that the Hungarian education system has collapsed and even collapsed. Every year, we listen to how weak the students are, according to you. Every year we hear that there are great differences in performance, that the role of educational compensation in Hungary is extremely low. Every year we learn how many thousands of teachers are missing from the system, and each year they tell us that it's a tragedy that children are only required to study until they're 16. On these issues, an amazing disinformation operation is taking place. I would therefore like to base this political debate today on facts before the substantive debate begins. Let's see what the performance of the students in Hungarian public education is like! How do we measure this? We have domestic and international measurements, data on this. National competence measurement dates back to the oldest of the home measurements. We measure text understanding, mathematics in the 6th, 8th and 10th grade, from this year on in the field of science. Comparable, we're talking about the same measurement, the point structure hasn't fundamentally changed. In 2008 Hungarian students reached 1601 points on average in the 8th grade of mathematics. In 2019, 1624 points were reached in the 8th grade of mathematics. This is 23 points higher, 1.5 percent higher than in 2008. In 2008, Hungarian students reached 1579 points on average. In 2019 text understanding, 8th grade, in the same category, 1608 points. This is 29 points higher, i.e. 1.8 percent higher overall than the 2008 figure. The results of the competence measurement are therefore beyond discussion that they have improved during this period. One of the international measurements is the TIMSS measurement, which is the mathematical measurement of the 4th and 8th graders, but it also measures natural science. For the 4th graders, the 2007 measurement in mathematics: students reach a 510-point average. 2019 is the last measurement here as well; 523 points at this time the result of the Hungarians was 13 points higher than the 2.5% improvement in 2007. [[16.30]] In the 8th grade, according to the 2007 measurement, the average result in mathematics is 517 points, in 2019 with the last measurement exactly as many, 517 points did not improve and did not deteriorate. By the way, in 2019 the average of the Member States of the European Union on TIMSS was 504 points, and only two states were better at this measurement than Hungary. The Hungarian result is 2.5 percent above the EU average. The Hungarian result is better than the result of the United States, England, Finland, Sweden, Portugal, Italy or France. Also famous international measurement is the so-called PIRLS. This is about measuring the text of the 4th grade students: in 2001 the participating Hungarian students reached 543 points, in 2006 551 points, in 2011 539 points, in 2016 554 points, and in 2016 the best result on this measurement; there is no sign of collapse, it does not seem. The Hungarian result is usually one of the ten best results of the EU Member States on this measurement, in the case of PIRLS. We don't know the data from 2021 here yet, but it was done after the outbreak. The epidemic in Europe, in the case of the 4th graders, could have caused 2-3 percent deterioration in other measurements everywhere. But only in comparison: just last week, the so-called IQB measurement was published in Germany, which showed a negative 4.5 percent deterioration in the case of the German 4th grade. The fact that we published this data at 8th and 12th grade in Hungary last year in the 2021 survey did not show any deterioration compared to the average result of the previous five years, and in the 6th grade it only showed 1-2 percent deterioration is an excellent result, and the Hungarian public education system was still in place during the epidemic. Most of the international measurements have been cited by PISA measurement, which measures the mathematical and text understanding skills of 15-year-old students. In 2006 Hungarian students scored 490 points in mathematics, in 2018, 481 points, and here the result actually deteriorated by 9 points overall, minus 1.7 percent. In 2006, text understanding is 482 points, in 2018, 476 points, in fact 6 points, minus 1.3 percent; this cannot be called a major collapse. Under the OECD average of the world's most advanced countries, Hungarian results are only 2 percent. It is also important to say that the OECD average is also decreasing. From the initial 500 points to all 500 points, the OECD average deteriorated or decreased to 496 points in 2006 and to 488 points in 2018 by 1.7 percent, just like the Hungarian average result. We could even talk about it, although that's not why we're here today, that the average score of deified Finland in 2006 was 553 points, and after four continuously deteriorating measurements in 2018, only 516 points, minus 6.7 percent, didn't read any articles about the collapse of the Finnish education system. By the way, the Hungarian PISA results are similar to those of Italy, but, let's say, 6 points better than Luxembourg. From mathematics, the Hungarian result is the same as that of Spain, but it is 3 points better than that of the United States of America. Of the neighbouring countries, it is the result of Austria and Slovenia, which is just a little above us, Croatia, Slovakia is broadly in line with the Hungarian result, and Serbia, Romania and Ukraine are much weaker than Hungarian in all indicators. We can also examine the role of compensation for the disadvantage of education. Indeed, the family background in Hungary has a very strong role in the effectiveness of education, of course there are advantages. Thank you to all families that can give a lot of support and background to support the good educational performance of children in addition to the school. Where there is no such thing, there is a need for the school to increase its role of compensation for disadvantages, since every child has the right to equal education. I say that this role of compensation for disadvantages has indeed improved with the transformation of the education system after 2010. We can also use PISA data here: in 2009 the family background was responsible for 26 percent of the differences in performance based on PISA data, only 23 percent in 2012, 21,6 percent in 2015 and only 19.1 percent in 2018. I know this is a delicate indicator, but the situation is showing an improving trend on the basis of PISA data, so I suggest that we do not return to the world of 3 000 school-supporting municipalities, because then only the poor settlement is a bad school, a rich settlement with a good school. The current system is capable of improving the role of education as compensation for disadvantages. Let's talk a little bit about the number of teachers. The total number of teachers in public education and vocational training was almost 183 thousand in 2006. This decreased to 169 thousand people in the period of 15 000 people's construction in 2008. This figure has not changed substantially since then, despite the fact that the number of students has fallen by 12%. During the 2009/2010 academic year, there were 1.7 million students, 1.5 million students, minus 210,000 students in the 2021/2022 academic year, thus reducing the number of students. As a result, in 2010, a teacher received 11.5 students and in 2020 10.4 students. OECD average, by the way, is 14. This does not mean that there is no shortage of labour, because we are struggling with significant labour shortages everywhere, in all sectors of the economy and not only in Hungary but also in Europe, but there is no mention of what we can read in every existing forum, that 16,000 teachers are missing from the system or, if so, that is true from 2006. Let's also talk about the age limit for compulsory education, because in many cases we could hear it here in the Parliament during the debate, when the government reduced the age limit for compulsory education, as to what effect it would have. The question, though, is how long should school be mandatory, and from what age should the student's individual choice be? The government reduced this mandatory nature a decade ago from 18 to 16 years ago, and the left then opposed this, it was a big debate, it was worth looking at its results. Let's literally understand the results. The question is how the proportion of people aged 20-24 with at least upper secondary education developed. I can report that the domestic share of 20-24-year-olds with at least upper secondary education was 83,6 in 2009 and 85.7 in 2020, so the ratio improved in this indicator. The EU average is 84,3 according to Eurostat 2020 data, so the Hungarian result is better than the EU average. And I am also sure that this ratio will be further improved by the scholarship system introduced in the techniques, since the dropout was the highest in this type of school. The system of scholarships introduced will further improve this. There are challenges, of course. The Deputy Minister also said that we have taken a lot of forward-looking steps, and we have to meet a number of expectations in our work: there is a society's expectation that the threefold role of the school can be achieved as far as possible in the tasks of education, education, child care as possible; there is the economic expectation to ensure that young people are well prepared, ready to learn or work; there are teachers, who have a legitimate expectation and what we would like to provide them with a reasonable wage; there are parental requirements to ensure competitive knowledge that their children can expand their talents. The Ministry of the Interior wants to meet those expectations. In our work, we say that the child must be at the heart of the renewal of public education. Our aim is therefore to implement a significant wage increase, and thus to ensure that teachers are recruited. In addition to the significant wage increase, our aim is to create the possibility of real-evaluating performance-related differentiation. Our aim is to recognise even more the work of colleagues working for children with significant disadvantages. We want a number of non-wage incentive options for further training, the promotion of housing in small settlements and the introduction of an additional favourable teacher ID. [[16.40]] We want to introduce an internal management performance assessment of pedagogical work, and we also want to strengthen external ratings, but we would make the elements of this optional. We are expanding the system of measurement of educational effectiveness, which gives an important feedback to the institution on the effectiveness of teachers' work, the development of students. We would like to further strengthen the digitalisation of the Hungarian public education system. All these steps will further strengthen the effectiveness of the Hungarian public education system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-209	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Zoltán Maruzsa. Dear Parliament, The opening speech will now take place, which will be presented by four speakers within a total period of 20 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anna Russian.
u2022-11-02-210	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow us to welcome students, parents and educators who have been watching the gallery, who, in recent months, and many in recent years, have taken a few personal risks and sacrifices publicly to say that the situation of our schools has become unsustainable. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum.]] Today's debate is about them and it is about them, so I would like to ask my fellow members of the Government to give substantive answers to our questions, to the demands of students, parents and teachers, rather than to pass on responsibility. Hungarian education is in crisis. In 2021, the wages of Hungarian teachers reached 60% of the average salary, which is the lowest among OECD Member States. Due to the total lack of financial and professional appreciation, 16 thousand teachers are missing from the Hungarian education system today, the number of vacant posts has increased by 2.5-3 times over five years in kindergartens, primary schools, not to mention vocational training institutions, where this multiplier has increased up to 8-10 times. How, though, would the proportion of teachers leaving the field not have increased by mass, and why would more people apply to teacher training under these conditions? Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior responsible for education and all members of the government, is holding out that it is up to the European Union to settle teachers' wages. Otherwise, you are constantly fighting for our national sovereignty, and you are asking yourself to intervene in any internal affairs of the European Union for Hungary. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] I ask you why the increase in wages is dependent on the EU, when it is absolutely internal, and when, for this reason, Hungarian taxpayers have already paid their tax dollars many times over the last few years. But not only do teachers' wages show how much trouble there is in Hungarian education, but also in school performances. From the introduction, I'm sure it wasn't by accident, but there wasn't a description of the PISA results, according to which for 2009... [[There's a lot of noise on the pro-government side. Intercoms: But he told me! Lőrinc Nacsa interrupts: The others should be watched! The president's ringing the bell.]] that all three indicators show a serious deterioration in performance compared to the 2009 results. Thank you very much for once in your life referring to these statistics. [[Delight, applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I have a question about what they expect, what would make the performance of Hungarian schools better [[Bence Rétvári: Not from Momentum!]] If you are putting state ministers and ministers at the head of education who, according to me and now I quote the child must be controlled, you do have to tell him what is good and what is bad, sometimes with the limitations around it, you do have to frustrate him. I didn't quote from the Middle Ages, but from the First NER Secretary of State for Education, Rózsa Hoffmann. And worst of all: the consequences of the missing teachers, the outdated curriculum, the outdated infrastructure are paid by the children, they do not have the opportunity to acquire modern skills, they are the ones who are extremely overwhelmed, who are anxious and who will far more difficult to cope with in our already very complicated and difficult world. Parents, who can pay for this in the current crisis and 20 percent inflation, try to compensate for the price of their irresponsible governance by hours. Because of these problems, the Civil Public Education Platform, which brings together teachers, students and parents' organisations, formulated the following demands, which we presented to Parliament in the form of a resolution proposal. They call for a worthwhile and public dialogue on the renewal of education. Stop discrediting teachers, intimidate educational actors. Dismissed or relieved teachers should be reinstated immediately. Interesting strike rights for educators! Responsible, competent education management, independent Ministry of Education! Reduce the unreal stress of students and teachers. A chance for education for everyone from kindergarten to university! Competitive and valuable wages for education workers! Quality, XXI. 100th century environment for learning and teaching! Finally: professional freedom and support in education, modern national basic curriculum, free textbook selection! The concerns of protesters about the situation of education are more than just. And all they ask is that the government, which constantly refers to national interests and sovereignty, finally realize that there is no more important national issue than education and that they cannot blame anyone but themselves for its humiliating situation, the European Union, sanctions, the opposition or any other imaginary enemy image. Therefore, only you can act to ensure that immediate and comprehensive reforms are carried out in the school system. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-11-02-211	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Endre Tóth, who will see on the sign what time is left.
u2022-11-02-212	[[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I know a lot of you have kids, so I'm asking you how you talk to them... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: We can't hear it! Card! We're curious. You should have gone to school. Noise. The congressman puts his card in the machine.]] Now you hear it? [[It's constant noise. Nacsa Lőrinc: It worked! Bence Rétvári: That's how it works!]] Excuse me. [[Noise, the president's ringing.]]
u2022-11-02-213	Let's hear it.
u2022-11-02-214	Thank you for the floor. Then I'll start over. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I know many of you have children. I would ask you how you talk to them, you know what a Hungarian student sees today, if you go to public school, you know how a school day goes. Because that wonderful dream picture you just painted doesn't come across reality. Your teenage child may not be talking to you, but that can't be an argument either. [[An uproar on the pro-government side. Intruders: Shame on you!]] To turn a blind eye to the crisis of Hungarian education... I ask for order! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] As they still see enough of how their own government's education policy is being struck in practice, that is why they are fleeing their own children to so many expensive private schools. If a Hungarian student goes to a public school today, he often feels like he's on a film set in the 1980s. There's a good chance it was the last time windows, furniture, and heating systems were replaced. When you get to class, you don't even have to take off your coat, because you're gonna be squeaking all day in 18 degrees of cool. Because they can't fool people with stories about cheap Russian gas if the government can't heat up our schools at the right temperature. Then, if the student goes to the school's IT room, he can still have time travel, and because in IT technology changes faster than Viktor Orbán learns to use smartphones [[Bence Rétvári: You and your card!]] So, the most modern programs don't usually run on these school stone age computers anymore. During the break, an even more unpleasant surprise may come to our student when he remembers that there is never toilet paper in the school bathroom. In the next hour, you can try the theoretical physical education class, and then the next, what it's like to have a history teacher replace physics. Then you can sit for a few more hours, filling your head with a bunch of useless lexical knowledge that you could search the Internet for in a minute, if you didn't take the phone from him at the beginning of the class. Finally, he goes home tired, where after a separate English and a separate physics lesson he can dive into the jungle of endless homework and preparation for a test. Such is the day of Hungarian students, my fellow pro-government colleagues, with 10-12 hours of study a day at a teenager's age. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How many children do you have?]] [[16.50]] And these days come together as a stressful, overwhelmed childhood, where our students are gradually grinded by the system and lose their curiosity and motivation to acquire new knowledge. Fear of bad grades remains. After that, no one can be surprised if the next generation burns out by the age of 20 and has no idea what to do with their lives. Don't you think, fellow Members, that they should not be overloaded during their student years? Today, 300 school psychologists wrote an open letter that today's state of public education seriously endangers the well-being of children, and anxiety, depression, panic, self-absorption or even the emergence of more serious mental disorders has become a common phenomenon in Hungarian public education. The situation is therefore very worrying. But it is also very bad for those whose family is unable to pay for expensive special classes and to replace the knowledge that Hungarian public education could not give them. Their opportunity to break out is finally closed by the government's irresponsible education policy, the 16-year obligation to teach, the huge lack of teachers in rural areas, segregation encouraged from government level, and children in these circumstances will not only become burned-out young people, but also unemployed. What I don't know is that you're watching independent media, you know, where Antal Rogán doesn't dictate the news, but if for a moment you rise above your own alternate reality, you'll see that there has been a national consensus over the last few months that the next generation deserves more modern education and better schools. Parents are right to be outraged when they pay the world record Hungarian VAT and the heavy tax burden on work, and in return they receive a fully bled-out Hungarian public education. Well, where are our tax dollars, my fellow members of the government? ! Vodafone? In the national consultation? In the Buda villa of Lőrinc the Butcher? This is not what the Hungarian people paid for. How is it possible that after two-thirds of 12 years of governance, a career-starting educator, according to his own declaration, lives on dry pasta and rice, and is forced to balance it on the edge of homelessness from his net salary of 207 grand. It is time, my fellow pro-government Members, that the government finally raises the humiliating salary of teachers on its own, not on the EU, so that they do not run out of dedicated and good professionals. It is time for us not to go back to school for decades, and the government will provide the country with modern digital tools and modern schools, finally starting a school renovation program. It's time to stop disparaging and intimidating teachers, as András Bencsik did on News TV, setting teachers for monsters. It is also time that teachers were given back the right to strike and that the six teachers who had been dismissed because of their participation in the protest should be reinstated. It is time to reduce the burden of students and the amount of overcrowded educational material. It is time for the governing parties to hear the voices of protesting educators, students and parents, to accept their legitimate demands and to vote in favour of the nine-point resolution proposal tabled today by the Momentum. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-02-215	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs.
u2022-11-02-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It is an indisputable fact that the wages of teachers are shamefully low. In addition to today's inflation of more than 20 percent, the initial net salary of the university graduates is HUF 207,000 or the net salary of the teachers on the 10-20 years of career is not enough for anything. Low pay is one of the main reasons why trade unions have announced a strike and many teachers protest in the context of civil disobedience; students and parents stand by teachers with a live chain. Today, the average wage of Hungarian teachers is 63 percent of the average salary of the national economy, according to OECD data. The state exploits teachers in practical terms. These are facts. And because of low pay, more and more people are leaving the field, and fewer and fewer people are applying to us for teaching classes in higher education. Last time, only half as many teachers applied to university as they did in 2016. The number of candidates has decreased from 20,000 to 10,000, and the number of admissions has decreased from 10 thousand to 6 thousand; and at some courses we take 20-30 students from all over the country. There are no teachers, and there will be even fewer in the future. The demands of teachers are clear: an immediate, at least 50% wage increase is required. This is also necessary in order to address the current wage problems, and it is also necessary to increase the desire to apply at universities, to increase the desire to apply for an attractive career. This is what the pedagogical interest organisations are asking for, which will appear here in the course of the debate. Another of the main demands of the stakeholder organisations in recent months is to withdraw the amendment of the strike law introduced on the grounds of an emergency, as you have, in practical terms, neutered their right to strike. The demands of the trade unions are very clear: restore the full right of strike for teachers; take back the fired teachers; put back the deputy director of Miskolc who has been relieved of his status; take into account the demands of teachers. This will be demanded by the representatives of interest representatives and their leaders in the debate on the gallery, this is what the demonstrators demand, this is what the country demands, and this is what Momentum will demand in the proposal for a momentary decision, which has already been announced by the speakers before me. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-02-217	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Gelencsér.
u2022-11-02-218	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Since 2010, there has been no Ministry of Education in this country for 12 years. The last minister of education in the country used to sit next to me, a few chairs away. There were 5132 fewer teachers in the school year 2020/21 than in 2009/2010. There will be no one to teach the Hungarian children. There are nine political parties in this Parliament. I can only hope, fellow Members, that, above all, they define themselves as party politicians only in the second, third, twentieth and century series, because if this point stops, you will agree with me that the situation of education cannot be a party political issue. This is not a right- or left-wing question; this is not a conservative or progressive question; this is not a liberal or socialist question, honourable Members. This is a national issue, it is a national issue. Since the start of the school year, demonstrations have been almost continuous, not only in Budapest, but throughout the country, because of the state of education. Among other things, people demonstrate that there is an independent Ministry of Education. The future and fate of Hungary are in the classrooms, forming in the classrooms. Hungary will be a successful country if its education system works well. Education creates citizenship and social responsibility in us. Education is an essential part of human development. Education can create a world of peace, justice, freedom and equality. I believe that these are values that you consider important, fellow Members. I therefore call on the Government to review the poor management system of public education. The government shall submit to Parliament a plan for the establishment of a separate Ministry of Education; a ministry responsible for kindergarten education, public education, higher education and vocational training. Prime Minister, make a proposal for a person with experience and experience in educational matters: be Hungary's Minister of Education, who is preferably not a policeman. [[Eszter Váltolyos: Van...]] The government will also immediately begin a review of the school district and vocational training centre system. Eliminate the permanent supply disruptions of schools and provide all educational institutions with the necessary material and material conditions for high-level teaching work. In addition, ensure the protection of the health of teachers and students during the time spent in educational buildings, so that institutions have a temperature of at least 20 degrees Celsius. This is the beginning of a independent ministry and a learning temperature, but let's not stop here. I respectfully urge the Government to take immediate steps to address the serious inequalities in public education and vocational training. Take immediate action to restore the upper limit of compulsory education to 18 years of age. Help children with disadvantaged and specific educational needs access to the educational-education and habilitation-rehabilitation activities they need, and create the necessary personal and material conditions. [[17.00]] According to several studies, the maximum educational rate for SNI students is 4 and this is 4.6 in Hungary. With all due respect, I would like to ask the government to initiate a marked increase in the remuneration of teachers with a high number of disadvantaged or special educational needs, to take action to increase the number of teachers and teachers working in the education system and to improve the cooperation between the social sector and education. I would also like to ask the Government to launch a school renovation programme without delay and to provide sufficient resources for the renovation of broken-down school buildings and yards, the energy modernisation of buildings and the installation of institutions with modern digital tools. Because not only does it matter what our young people learn, but it also matters under what circumstances they can do so. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-11-02-219	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The keynote speeches will now take place in a 10- to 10-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-11-02-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a family-friendly country, and many of our parliamentary decisions have been made with the aim of making it easier for us to start a family, have children and raise children. It is enough to continue to think about increasing the amount of family support, about our home-building programme or about our family protection measures. We are interested in creating as many Hungarian children as possible, and children getting competitive knowledge at school, learning about their national culture, understanding scientific contexts, and learning languages effectively. It serves the Hungarian future. Everyone who spends their lives trying to make the best of children should be honored and respected to teach at school, because it is indeed the future of our country that depends largely on families and educators. Dear Parliament, There is no discussion between us that teachers deserve greater financial respect. Since 2010, since the beginning of our governance, we have been committed to raising wages, as we have only adopted HUF 86 billion of additional resources for the sector for the following year. A significant part of this goes to the wage increase. As far as further wage increases are concerned, we also agree. That is why we have made the comprehensive teacher wage arrangement part of the agreement with the Union. Our aim is to make a significant wage increase and we welcome the European Commission's cooperation in this matter. However, this constructivity cannot be said of everyone, as the Hungarian left is doing everything in his country and in Brussels to hide sticks among the spokes in the agreement process. They have no interest in a swift agreement, because they hope for political gain if Hungary does not receive the money it deserves. The only thing about their attitude is that Ferenc Gyurcsány's shadow-president repeatedly said that not a penny of EU support would arrive until Viktor Orbán was the Prime Minister. Klára Dobrev is therefore negotiating with great force in Brussels in order not to receive money. It is also interesting that you on the left have simply not supported the legislative packages required for the EU agreement here in Parliament. Dear House, Let's see who initiated today's debate. On the agenda, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his associates; here it is in black and white [[Eszter Vitalos: Where is the Gyurcsány?]] In other words, those who held teachers in constant insecurity during their government have made their moral and material appreciation equal to zero. We all remember the period when the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments took away a full monthly salary from teachers and dismissed 15,000 teachers. Hundreds of schools were then shut down, no less than 381 places were lost in education activity in the country. On the left, it is recorded that hundreds of billions of people have been taken out of education, and settlements have been driven to 1,300 billion in debt with their education system. There are huge differences between schools depending on how the local government managed to finance the institution. Meanwhile, textbook prices continued to rise, purchasing the textbook package was a huge burden for families. We will also not forget that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government tried to introduce a tuition fee in higher education, and this was finally prevented by the strong stand of the Hungarian people in the 2008 referendum. At that time, we did not even mention that the unfavorable PPP schemes imposed by left-wing governments caused billions of dollars of damage to universities as well as to the Hungarian state. Dear Parliament, After such a history, it is infinitely doubtful that the left now settles for teachers, and they want to use schools, teachers and students for political action. And as soon as they showed up, they politicized a topic called wage-setting, which, by the way, we agree on. Stop playing this game, and if you don't want to help the EU agreement as soon as possible, at least don't back it up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-221	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Wasn't he the mastermind?]]
u2022-11-02-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I begin, allow me to welcome the representatives of the profession, former colleagues, parents and students here, among the walls of the Parliament. I am pleased that you can now listen to this debate in person. Dear House, Education is a national matter, education is our common concern. Months of strikes, civil disobedience actions, and mass demonstrations have become one of the important passwords of the sentence quoted above. Education is a national matter, because it is the responsibility of the nation as a whole to ensure the knowledge and skills of growing generations, and education is a common cause, because whatever government parties claim, there is no right-wing and left-wing school, only a school model, and there is no pro-government and opposition future, but a vision. Tomorrow's school is gonna be what we're gonna make here in the present. Either we are able to create a new system instead of a more spectacular collapse in the last few weeks, or we go further than ever before on the road that leads to dissatisfaction and lack of prospects, and at the end there is the mass departure and emigration of future generations and teachers and professionals teaching them. Tertium non datur, i.e. there is no third option. This is why it is very important that, at the joint initiative of the opposition, we can now discuss the otherwise devastating situation of Hungarian education here, within the walls of the House. After the wave of national protests over the last few weeks, of course, it seems like the power is finally beginning to realize how bad the problem is. But I must point out that this is only seemingly the case. After all, at the end of August, Zoltán Maruzsa asked the trade unions not to support the civil disobedience movement of teachers, because he believes that it is morally worrying that he would now like to sit down with the same trade unions after a long time. But he also said that we should remember that there is currently a shortage of teachers because he believes that the retirement of women with 40-year-old work relationships has resulted in a significant wave of retirement in public education institutions with 80 percent women. It was also Secretary of State Maruzsa who explained the low teacher's wages as the teacher's profession grew female and women already earn less on the labour market than men. Or we could mention Hungarian vocational training in order to extract the cheapest possible workforce and possibly the most uninformed polling camp, László Parragh, who said that a teacher has enough motivation for a summer break, and that teachers can go home at 4:00 p.m. and who proudly agreed that he would have delivered the age limit of compulsory education to the age of 15. But let's not stop here, because government propaganda can hear even more rude things from time to time about educating and student demonstrations. [[17.10]] András Bencsik, for example, organizer of the Fidesz peace processions, who regularly marches in the first row next to Attila Pataky, Győzike and Zoltán Lomnici Jr. and you, said again that such scumbags covered the teaching track, such a big-mouth, nihilist, no-show company. But Benchik was also the one who recommended to the father of Lili Pankotai, who spoke at the protest, that he should give his daughter two big slaps. Then, of course, Zsolt Bayer, decorated by you with the Cross of Knights, was able to trump this, who said that he was a kölcseys teacher threatened and fired by power, Katalin Törley, a villain. This is what governments think about Hungarian schools, the government thinks about Hungarian schools, this is what they think about Hungarian teachers, but they are too cowardly to say it themselves, they leave the dirty work to Bencsik and Bayerk, and they leave the issue of Hungarian education to a police camp, because they know that, unlike EU money, Hungarian education can only be reduced in the last 12 years, and you have not stolen it. Of course, we also feel the valve leaking from the government's side. First Gergely Gulyás talks about the fact that they cannot raise the wages of teachers because of Brussels, then in an interview the Speaker himself, László Kövér, exposes the obvious lie, stating that they could raise teachers' wages without EU funds, but that teachers should not make our own performance and self-esteem dependent on their salary. This is said by the pro-government people who, in spite of all opposition protests at the beginning of the summer, cheated Viktor Orbán's salary increase, claiming that the Prime Minister's salary is the 23rd of the 27 Member States of the Union, but they forget, or you simply do not care that the salary of teachers is the 26th lowest in the EU. But before starting the old mantra again, of course, let us quickly state that, despite all government lies, the current protests are not primarily due to the wage issue. Hungarian education is in an unprecedented crisis and has been pushed into this crisis by the current governing parties. Those who no longer seem to be able to resolve this crisis, but do not want to solve it, let some data show how bad the problem is. The number of full-time teachers is currently 30 thousand less than after the 2002 wage arrangement [[Bence Rétvári: It's 30!]] which means that, according to the trade unions' calculations, today, 16,000 teachers are missing from the system, and 11 percent of the teaching posts have been vacant, which has not occurred since World War II. In addition, the domestic educator society is growing older. The government itself acknowledged in the documents sent to the European Commission that 45 percent of the profession is over 50 years of age, and less and less young, starting teachers. The lack of replacements is an increasingly pressing problem, with 11 978 registered this year for some pedagogical training, and all 6449 of them were admitted, which means that even if we didn't count on early school leaving, and all of them would graduate from the university and then become teachers, we wouldn't be able to remedy the infinite lack of teachers in Hungarian education. And then, of course, let's talk about wages. Since 2015, Fidesz has linked educators' wages to a projection fund equal to the minimum wage of 2014, which is currently worth HUF 101 500, which means that the salary of a beginner educator should now be supplemented by HUF 16 300 a month to reach the guaranteed minimum wage, and that the salary of this educator will not change in the first 14 years due to a poor system of advancement. Who do you think is going to be a teacher with a job-seeker ad that even an afternoon cleaner earns more money than a high school teacher teaching history in English at the same school? Today, Hungarian teachers earn between 56 and 66 percent of the average salary, which is 90 percent on average in OECD countries. Of course, we know the promises of Gergely Gulyás, who says that if teachers raise teachers' wages 10-10-10 percent a year, then teachers will earn 778 thousand a month by 2025, approaching 80 percent of the average graduates' earnings. However, it seems that the Minister reached only the beginning of reading the masterpiece of Péter Esterházy, the Harmonia caeestis, because it sounds like it is difficult to lie if you do not know the truth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Németh Szilárd István: There is an improved edition!]] The truth is that, based on the data of KSH, the average salary of graduates was HUF 677,000 in 2021, which, if you take last year's variables as a starting point, will correspond to approximately HUF 798 thousand this year. Although Minister Gulyás spoke of an average salary of HUF 400,000 among educational workers, he forgot to add that this includes the wages of university teachers. Let's be generous, accept this 400,000 HUF number, so if this amount increases by 30 percent by 2025, not only will teachers' wages be close to 80 percent of the 2025, but not even the 2022 average. And if we add the ever-escaped inflation to all of this, we see that the government, like the last 12 years, has lied to the teachers again, and again does not take responsibility for it, but tries to blame it on Brussels, the Union, the Hungarian opposition, Gyurcsány, Soros, migrants, the war and who knows who else. Do you think this is good governance? Do you think this is a well-thought-out education policy? The captain of Titanic, drifting towards the iceberg, had more serious crisis management plans than you, my fellow government colleagues. And when teachers, parents, students confront you with all this, when the union describes that the overburden of teachers is so high that teachers work an average of 56 hours a week, most of which are not paid for, which is about 50 billion a year, but who has not paid, so-called invisible work, then what do you do? They're evacuating the strike law, and they're revoking the teachers' right to strike. They do not even remember that they should sit down with the representatives of the profession and the leaders of the trade unions, but instead they threaten and expel teachers through the districts who, despite your inhumane policy, dare to exercise their constitutional fundamental rights. You don't understand, and you don't even care how much trouble it is here. But here's the good news: no one expects you to solve this crisis today, and we'll do it ourselves. [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dobrev Klára not so long ago [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in person with the representatives of teachers and the Teachers' Union (The President bell rings). What you have been unable to do for years, we have done; yes, my fellow Member, we have listened to the educational actors. [[Eszter Vitalos: Sure!]] , and on this basis the shadow government has drawn up a clear short-term action plan to correct domestic public education...
u2022-11-02-223	Congressman...
u2022-11-02-224	Let's see the points of these, if you're willing to listen. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Fellow Members. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Time! Time's long gone. Bence Rétvári: Math! Math! Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-11-02-225	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position in a ten-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2022-11-02-226	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I came today in the hope that we could have a tough, but meaningful, fair debate on the system of Hungarian public education, because there really are challenges to which it is worth answering, and perhaps it would have been worth finding answers together. Here's the digitalization, there's a lot of educators complaining that the parenting... the teaching authority is falling. [[A statement from the opposition: Freudi Disclaimer!]] so there are challenges, but unfortunately I was disappointed because only four left-wing representatives spoke, but it became clear [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] You don't want to have a professional debate. You take advantage of the situation of public education and educators [[Gergely Harvester: It was five, I'm just saying. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] They only came here today to achieve their power goals. It's an old left-wing custom, and you don't seem to want to change your habits. It was just four years ago, when they broke into the public media, ran into doors, and they wanted to take very strong pictures on the ground, all because of that! because they claimed that you represent the interests of the workers, the Hungarian workers, and they believe that the bill that was in front of the House at the time, you claim to force the overtime on the workers, and that these overtimes will not be paid, you said that this is why you are standing up. [[Gergely Arató: It's Education Debate Day! Education, you know!]] We know the Hungarian people, and we know they are conscious. If that were true, hundreds of thousands of people would have been here in front of Parliament within a week or two. [[17.20]] I told you all this because it didn't happen. It became clear that what you were doing there was an act of power. [[Szabó Timea: Education debate!]] They lied, they used the case of Hungarian workers as a tool. And after it became clear that they were lying, like they were doing a good job, they moved on. The thing is, the case of teachers is used as an instrument exactly like this. And it's not just a statement, and they've already given us evidence. Because I think that educators and the system of public education do not expect you to self-destruct protests, but to act. And you've done it. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the Hungarian Government has tabled a number of legislative proposals, and you have not only said no to this, but also to the urgent discussion of this bill. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] So when you said no to this proposal, [[Interventions from the opposition: We voted for it!]] I understand that they wanted to hurt Fidesz-KDNP and the government, but then you said no to teacher wage increases. That's the thing. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right! Shame on you! Interventions from the opposition: We voted for it!]] This is also supported by the fact that Klára Dobrev said that as long as the Prime Minister of Hungary is called Viktor Orbán, there should not be a penny of EU support. So it's perfectly clear that your goal is to damage the Fidesz-KDNP government and return to power again. And if you need to say no to that, then the case of a teacher's wage increase is collateral damage to you. It's the painful truth. In order to increase the points in this debate, I would like to address a few questions to you, and I would be pleased if our fellow Members, who are in a moment, could answer these questions. Do you believe that left-wing governance has helped public education by handing over to municipalities the maintenance of schools without providing the necessary resources to municipalities? [[Gergely Arató: József Antall handed it over, and the first freely elected government!]] What was the outcome? [[Gergely Harvesto: You've missed history too!]] Maruzsa also referred to it: there was never such a difference in the system of Hungarian public education in terms of the wages of teachers as there was at the time, there was never such a difference in the quality of schools as there was at the time. And it's only a bonus that the local governments have also broken down, since they have accumulated a debt of HUF 1200 billion. Once again, did this help the Hungarian public education case? The fact that the National Book Publisher was privatized by Ferenc Gyurcsány helped the Hungarian public education case [[Gergely Harvesto: He didn't privatize him!]] That he didn't privatize it to a business partner. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Shame! Shame on you!]] What was the outcome of this? The 60 percent increase in the cost of textbooks [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] The textbooks that the left-wing government studied were useless, expensive and useless. Did this help with the issue of Hungarian public education? But not just in the past: do you think that what helped the Hungarian public education is that the left has a shadow minister of education, who is committing gang violence against women, is a private home invasion for which the Hungarian court condemns him? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Eszter Debate: Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Does this help with the Hungarian public education? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-227	Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa left four minutes and 15 seconds of the ten-minute time frame. [[Gergely Harvesto: Oh, I've missed this.]]
u2022-11-02-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, If you have not done so, let me thank the teachers for their sacrifice, let me thank the head of the institution, the kindergarten educators, the educators, and let me thank my own teachers. [[Gergely Harvester: There's no reason!]] I've had a lot to thank them for, and I've learned a lot from them in my school years. I think that the teachers should be thanked, not the contempt that comes from you, from the words you have spoken. You have said here in the last few hours that the Hungarian education system is in a devastating state, it is in bad shape, you have qualified the work of teachers. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Szabó Timea: No, it's your job! The government! Eszter Debate: Shame!]] I think that this is not a proper posture in this debate, and we should thank you here, and together we should look for solutions to the problems, the challenges that we face today, the 21st century. We meet in the Hungarian education system in the first century. I am asking you, ladies and gentlemen, how could you run under DK and MSZP logos that are linked to parties, putting 15,000 teachers on the street. How could they start because you were all candidates who campaigned for the voter's trust with posters with DK and MSZP logos. How could you cooperate with those who have closed 381 schools all over the country? How could you cooperate with people who have reduced teachers' salaries, for example Gergely Arató or Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Hiller, Csaba Molnár, István Ujhelyi, Ágnes Vadai or Gy. Erzsébet Németh voted in favour of measures that took away wages from teachers. Of course, they are bravely not here in the Chamber with us in the debate, since they could account for why they thought it was the right move not to raise but to reduce the wages of teachers. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why did you think that self-defence was more important than voting in favour of the laws that could help us draw the EU's rightful resources and thus increase the level of teacher's wages that we have now. [[Interviews from the Momentum, among them: We voted!]] Finally, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not ashamed that, when there is an important situation, there is a matter you call a national matter, because we agree on this: education, the future of education, the future of students is a national matter, the situation, ladies and gentlemen, that you have, as a rule, and in the last 12 years, been excluded from national affairs. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the national issue is a matter which is sacred and which requires a consensus, which requires joint decisions, which requires constructive proposals; it is not a mood, it is a matter of noble affairs, my fellow Members, that is to say, the use of noble matters for non-fascinous day party policy purposes. It has come up in the debate that you would like to have an independent Ministry of Education. [[A statement from the opposition: The civilians!]] Last time there was an independent education department, 15,000 teachers were fired. Is that what it depends on, fellow Members? [[Demercation and intervention in opposition benches.]] You don't really think an institution would help, do you? [[Dr. István Hiller: Did you fire him, Arato, and still laugh?]] Gergely Arató was one of the Undersecretaries of Education who personally fired these teachers [[Gergely Harvesto: I didn't fire anyone, Lawrence!]] And now he's laughing here. [[Gergely Harvesto: Because you're lying, that's why! The president's ringing the bell.]] Gergely Arató laughs at the fate of 15,000 teachers and the fate of 15,000 families, ladies and gentlemen. [[Gergely Harvesto: I'm laughing at you because you're ridiculous! Intercoms from the opposition. Szabó Timea: Four minutes over!]] You put 20-30,000 HUF textbook packages in the neck of the families, while Fidesz-KDNP made the textbooks free. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] We help Hungarian families in the school system with free and discounted meals. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we should also approach this issue from the students' side. You have done everything you can to make it harder for Hungarian families and teachers, and we have done everything we can to make it easier for Hungarian families and easier for Hungarian teachers. Thank you very much. [[Szabó Timea: Stadium building... applause from the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-229	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-230	[[He's sighing.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, ladies I see a good number of Fidesz MEPs here, and they didn't want to end up like the social law debate that a country could see they weren't here. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And surely they could also have measured that if the permanent educational protest and the livelihood crisis that exploded on Hungary were to come together, it could be politically unpleasant. It is no coincidence that the government is now inclined to negotiate with the teachers, even though they have been told that they will not negotiate with them. [[Eszter Vitályos: We have supported them so far! Bence Rétvári: How come?]] I'd like to start by saying that the previous government didn't fire 15,000 teachers. Do you know why, Mr. Nacha? Because the previous government, and Gergő Arató will confirm it, had no right to maintain it. So you can lie about propaganda, but unfortunately, it's not really a success story. [[Bence Rétvári: Ask the trade unions anyway.]] What Rózsa Hoffmann and you are saying here is how beautiful the situation of education is, why is it that so many people are protesting, and this is escalating in Hungary anyway? You have eliminated the reduction of the rent, not won an election, you have not told us the tax increase before the elections, yet the kata has been abolished and the tax has been raised. Why is it that education is now the focal point that can easily come into contact with the livelihood and energy crisis, by the way? So I see you're well prepared. [[Bence Rétvári: Thank you very much.]] I'd like to add my own to that. [[17 .30]] So first of all, Gergely Gulyás said that civil disobedience should serve a higher moral purpose, that it should be done for a higher cause, and, well, it is beneath the teachers that they want wages. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: You didn't say that. He didn't say that.]] But that is what he said, and that, in fact, it does not even reach the level of civil disobedience. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: That's what she said.]] Education I agree with Lurch Nacsa is a national matter. It's no coincidence that the protesters have this written on every other sign. Pay isn't the priority. It may be a central issue in the debate between us, and wage increases have always been a central issue since 90. That's what all the governments had, by the way. And since 90, there has been a public agreement in Hungary that education must be improved, so that a professional father can have a graduate child, and in this, you have learned a lot from Zoltán Pokorni. In this house, too, I have had the pleasure of hearing those ideas; I know that Pokorni would be sitting here today, in our ranks, because he did not agree with that educational system. [[Uproar, interrogation in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Zoltán Pokorni disagreed with the policy of education that Viktor Orbán has used as an instrument of power policy in recent years, and he has said this many times, despite the fact that the Prime Minister returned to his face that he refuses to argue about it. I'm sure this is unpleasant for you, but Pokorni was right. Because education is not a left- or right-wing issue, it is a question of the future of this country. It's a long-term matter. When Gyula Horn, the first MSZP Prime Minister, after the change of regime, raised the age limit for compulsory education, Zoltán Pokorni, after your minister, did not cancel it. [[Bence Rétvári: He raised the tuition fee! The tuition!]] And I could give you a lot of examples of what they did together, left-wing and fidesz right-wing governments. This public agreement was terminated after 2010. Which you've made a mistake, I'm sure. How did we get to this point when, in 2009, thanks to the efforts of previous socialist governments, the first successful PISA results came, and indeed, we made a big step forward in understanding the text? I wrote it out, too, Mr. Maruzsa, the data. He told me the same things about the PISA results I brought. There's no progress there. So you can't say that's a bright success. [[Noise in the benches of the governing parties. Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] I also think it is very important to say that the language preparation was also successful, that year zero. Tens of thousands of children reached secondary language exams in Hungary. Rózsa Hoffmann, your predecessor, your predecessor, Mr Rétvári, stopped the pre-linguistic prep on the spot, and now they're on their way to abolish the language exam, by the way, just to make propaganda more effective in an uninformed, non-speaking country. Unfortunately, they don't have a language strategy, even though they said it could be done. And they didn't follow that either. I was talking about achieving results in education in the longer term, but I could also say to you, for example, that the 50 percent wage increase, indeed, took place in 2002. That's what they like to forget. As of 1 September, MSZP increased the basic wage of all public education workers by 50 percent, and the calculation of wage allowances was adjusted to the increased first grade F1. After that, in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 we continued to raise wages by 28,5 percent in four years, so the F1, which we now call the project fund, has increased from HUF 33 thousand to HUF 69 thousand; more than twice. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that all civil servants were affected at the time. But what happened in 2010 during the crisis? And I would very much like to say this. During the crisis, the MSZP-SZDSZ government spent more, we spent 5.5 per cent of our education expenditure, while now, according to budget allocation 2023, this is 3.8. And I'm afraid if they can't make money, I'm afraid it's gonna go lower. While the Romanian nation, the German nation, the French say more countries? financed from the national budget... [[It's a lot of noise.]] Mr. Nacsa, the wages of teachers are financed from national budgets everywhere. Do you expect Brussels to give you the money? Brussels will give it to me. The problem is they're stealing it! They're stealing money from the teachers' pockets! [[It's a lot of noise. Interventions from opposition benches: That's right! Eszter Vitalos: Shame on you!]] And now I come back with the original sin, because that's the most important thing! You had a voluntary promise to teachers: the screening fund is tied to the minimum wage at all times. You volunteered to do this, promised it to the Hungarian teachers and withdrew it. They broke their promise. Trade unions are asking for a 45 percent wage increase. Here, along with my fellow opposition officers, we'll take 50. If you had kept your promise and not withdrawn what Orbán and Fidesz promised the Hungarian pedagogical society, Mr. Nacsa, do you know how much the wage increase would be? ! [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Ninety-seven percent. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] That's right. Ninety-seven percent! They took 800 billion from the teachers. [[Bence of Turdai: Shame!]] And you're demanding the 13th month on the socialists? Until 2009... It was introduced by the Antall government, paid until 2009. I have a question: why didn't you give it back? Neither the 13th month pension was returned, nor the 13th month wage was returned! [[There's a lot of noise in the pro-government benches. Nacsa Lőrinc: Why did you delete it? Eszter Vitalos: You're lying again. You're lying. You're lying. General noise.]] How many times? They didn't give it to the pensioners for more than ten years, and they still haven't given it to the teachers! Do you know there's a social group who's been hurt: teachers and pensioners? Answer me that. Where's all those 13 months' pensions? ! That's what I want to hear. [[Intercoms from both sides.]] Take back the fired educators. Take back your warnings. Give the teachers back their right to strike. Raise your wages properly. Give them back all the 13 months they haven't given you, Mr. Nacha, and give them back the money they promised. The screening fund should have been tied to the minimum wage. I know it hurts, but that's what this is about. Develop in Hungary a system of education in which the 18th edition of the Act of Accession applies. The plaster does not fall on the heads of district carinthys, because they only ask for one thing in my own constituency: if they write a letter to the KLIK and tell him not to run out of water on the outlet, then solve it! [[Noise in the pro-government benches. Nacsa Lőrinc: There is no KLIK!]] And one more thing. The previous government didn't shut down schools. Do you know why, Mr. Nacha? Because we had no maintenance rights! [[An uproar in the benches of the governing parties.]] And do you know what Mr. Pintér said? I've got 30 seconds. [[There's a lot of noise, interference in the pro-government benches.]] What did Mr. Pintér say? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, give me half a minute. What did Mr. Pintér say at his committee hearing? Mr. Pintér said that, yes, schools should be put together. So Minister Pintér predicted that schools would be closed in Hungary? Please respond to that, too. [[Eszter Battalion intervenes.]] And you know very well that we have left the government here, and indeed, there was a way to create a better system with the central role of municipalities and the state, but not full centralization and not full nationalisation. You caused this trouble. Fidesz is the main problem of Hungarian education in Hungary, but I hope you will not solve it. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP, Dialogue, Momentum and DK.]]
u2022-11-02-231	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Momentum Group indicated that three speakers presented the group's position in the ten-minute period. First, I give the floor to Congressman András Fekete-Győr.
u2022-11-02-232	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to welcome the teachers and students from the gallery. I've been a congressman for a few months, but other than your decisions, I've never seen so many Fidesz congressmen get together. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum. Anna of Russia: That's right! Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: That's right! That's right! Eszter Vitalos: Don't lie! Noise in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] That means... We're very happy to have so many Fidesz congressmen together, by the way. That means they're afraid of you. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing again.]] They're afraid of you, afraid of you. So keep it up and stick to the work you've been doing for the last few weeks, you've started on the streets! [[Noise. Intruder in the benches of Fidesz: Come on in. Come on in, let's go.]] I appeal to the pro-government representatives and the secretary of state. My question is, who's gonna teach me tomorrow? And that's not just my question, although I'm involved, because five years from now, my little boy is going to school, but it's gonna come up in hundreds of thousands of families who have kids, have school kids. Hundreds of thousands of families have recently had children, and they will be enrolled somewhere, and millions of families will be asked who will teach tomorrow, who will plan a family, who wants to have children, and who will not leave Hungary. [[17.40]] 16,000 teachers are missing from Hungarian schools. [[Bence Rétvári: It was 30,000 just now.]] You guys fired six teachers from their jobs. Hundreds of other teachers were warned about getting fired. Who's gonna teach me tomorrow? That's the question that arises in a country. I was part of the live chain, by the way, because [[Eszter Vítalos: It was possible to selfie.]] I am a father and a parent, so I should be there, and you should be involved at any time, because you are parents, at least most of you, and education should be a common national issue. I joined the teachers and students of my former high school, this is a good high school, and many people would like to go here and teach, and they told me that I was close to retirement age, that András, we could hardly find a young teacher. One or two if he falls through the door, and after a year or two, they move on. And do you know why they're moving on? We talked about it a lot: they receive a net starting salary of HUF 200,000. How much does it cost to pay a rent today about? In a lower voice, 100,000 forints, and then you have to pay extra for that, you have to buy more food for that. They can't afford it. Who's gonna teach me tomorrow? That's the big question I think is about this day, and that's actually about the future of our children. And what I think is outrageous is that you're talking about EU money. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] But, fellow Members, you've been on the government for 12 years. Twelve years, and we're talking about 16,000 people missing from education! Are you saying that teachers should be paid with EU money? But did you have the nerve to give Viktor Orbán a salary of HUF 3.5 million? Raise the salary to the State Secretarys, raise the salary to the ministers with the Hungarian taxpayers' money? [[Eszter Vitalos: Yours has also risen.]] Do you think the Hungarian taxpayers are giving you the money to increase your money instead of education, to increase your wallet? Secretary of State, why are you looking at the phone now? You've also received this raise. Do you guys watch job ads these days? They're looking for teachers in job ads and not secretary of state. [[Bence Rétvári: Vote for the wage increase in Brussels! Promise? You're voting for him?]] I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. [[Bence Rétvári: Katalin Cseh votes? The president's ringing the bell.]] What we're here for is demanding an immediate 40% increase in teacher wages. We demand the restoration of the right to strike and demand that the teachers who have been fired be reinstated. [[Eszter Vitalos: Don't demand anything.]] That is why we are here, because this is the guarantee of the Hungarian future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Dialogue, Momentum, MSZP.]]
u2022-11-02-233	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Louis Löcsei.
u2022-11-02-234	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, My first word is thank you, and I would also like to thank the people of Eger, who have shown a great deal of soul against making the teaching career impossible. I would like to recall what I said in my first speech in Parliament: the moral lack and social insensitivity of the Hungarian political elite have been condemning the poor people on the edge of society for generations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the It's time someone finally told the truth. You have murdered the Hungarian public education system with premeditated, depraved intent. They can only pray to God for forgiveness because our children will not forgive us. [[Eszter Vitalos: Great words from you!]] Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary, was here pampering the positive benefits of delivering the 16-year-old obligation, forgetting one thing: 70,000, I say once again, to understand that 70,000 children have fallen out of the public education system with just one stroke of the pen. [[A statement from the Fidesz: He could have stayed if he wanted to.]] In a previous speech, I tried to highlight the chances of a young person starting from a disadvantaged settlement. Especially when parents are uneducated, whether they are public workers, there is no fixed drinking water in their apartment, there is no separate children's room, because of social disadvantages, parents are unable to orientate or consciously support a particular profession. Once again, the question arises: what chance would you fellow Members give you to gain a profession or a degree if you had to break out of such an environment? This silence tells us everything about you. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, today's school system can't compensate for the disadvantages I've listed. Our education system is not capable of inclusive education, and it is already in kindergarten that there is a selection, which peaks in public education, because that is where most of the children fall out. So, unfortunately, these young people are sealed, falling out of public education as functional illiterates. See Gyöngyöspata, where young people who cannot read and write have come out of the institutions, and these facts, Gyöngyöspata, remind them of them. Let me give you some data. Today there is 1.4 percent of the disadvantaged in higher education, less than 0.8 percent of Roma, and 30 percent of early school leavers in Nógrád county, 20 percent in Borsod and Baranya county. These are also facts, fellow Members. This means that such a proportion of young people in these counties have not even graduated from high school. And to understand, they didn't even graduate high school! And these numbers tell us everything about you, what you mean by equal opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, They're talking about perfectionism, while some people aren't even allowed to go to the starting line. How should these young people learn if they keep making obstacles to them? Therefore, if you really don't want us to stay a country of assembly, then support the demands of the Momentum Movement. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from Momentum, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-11-02-235	Thank you very much. Two minutes and 55 seconds left for Congressman Miklós Dawn.
u2022-11-02-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, It is an undeniable fact that our education system is in serious crisis. Our students are overwhelmed, while the basic conditions of education are not guaranteed by the otherwise sustaining schools. There aren't enough modernly equipped classrooms, and thousands of teachers are missing from our schools. Therefore, even our students are more overwhelmed by our teachers who are still on the track, who are trying to maximize the situation every day with a complete lack of government appreciation. We thank them today, we invited them today, as many of them as possible to the gallery, teachers, parents and students, because these people, if necessary, will sacrifice their own wealth and leisure time for this cause. Each family has various scary stories about the need for parents and teachers to acquire the tools necessary for the basic functioning of schools. They're asked to buy soap and toilet paper in the bathroom because the school district doesn't provide them. Parents also buy chalk, photocopier paper, but sometimes they also buy light bulbs, so that their children can even study somewhere. This is due to the centralized system that, among other things, has been created by your government to make school provision more efficient. This is our everyday reality. The conditions of education deteriorate year after year, day after day, rather than constantly developing them, they are cutting down our schools. Unfortunately, this is reflected in the student's performance. In Hungary, the number of students with digital abilities is extremely low, and in PISA tests, as has been said, we are not achieving better and better results, on the contrary: we are achieving worse results in international comparison. In view of the government's inaction, we can almost conclude that you are doing this on purpose. And we, the community of Momentum, will not be able to accept this, because then Hungary will only be able to face the XXI. The challenges of the century, if our students are XXI. They receive centuries of knowledge if our teachers can teach with the respect they deserve. These questions will not be delayed, the future of our children, so the future of Hungary is at stake. Please decide accordingly, please support the Momentum's proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause from Momentum, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-11-02-237	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2022-11-02-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin with a quote: The Hungarian school system has collapsed, respect for isolated exceptions and teachers who want to endure in impossible circumstances. It collapsed because schools are largely completed or abandoned by the masses of uneducated and uneducated young people who are not fit to work and refuse to comply with the most basic rules of social co-existence. This is not the writing of an ex-SZDSZ educator, say, of Merce.hu, but this quote from 2010 was published in the Hungarian Nation by Konrád Solomon, the Conservative Konrád Solomon, whose textbook even I gladly and gladly taught. Well, what you need to see is that Anna Freud's self-preservation mechanisms, well-known from psychology, also work in government circles. How's that? Well, by denying the existence of all of it, and from the production reports that we occasionally encounter on your part, this denial comes back. Or if they don't deny it and we're looking at a better situation, they're rationalizing this problem. [[17.50]] What does that mean? It means that they will try, if not deny it, but blame it on someone else, and Brussels has come out now. Many times, when we are dealing with this issue, it is always Brussels, Brussels. I would like to point out that the Jobbik faction voted in favour of the legislative proposals with which the funds that actually owe the Hungarian nation can be brought home, but we always add: these funds do not really need to be stolen and managed in a way that is not for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So, it would be better if you heed the advice and the historical parable that Klebelsberg Kuno presented to you. You are constantly referring to Brussels, and if you are talking about Brussels, I am forced to bring up again and again the circumstances under which the legendary Minister of Education between the two world wars had to stand up and develop domestic education into a success sector. Trianon, we're after a losing world war, but I'll tell you something else: the 19th Autumn report says that 19 thousand wagons were the amount in which the Romanian occupying troops took the stolen property out of the country, and under these circumstances they didn't point to Paris and then Versailles, but, by creating national resources, they really developed the domestic education sector into a success sector, because they knew precisely that this country had no other chance. But the question is what kind of competitiveness paradigm we are thinking about. If indeed a multitude of educated heads are the power of a nation and the possibility of unfolding, as Széchenyi said, then it must be done, as Klebelsberg did, to whom you refer. However, if that Parragh paradigm comes up, which is more Latin America, and we have seen it well not only in terms of education, but also in terms of social issues or their attitude towards workers, then the fact is that this will not be a solution. Yeah, they run a double school system. We have often pointed out that some elite members are sending their children, their grandchildren, to elite schools where the tuition fee may be several million forints a year. For the rest of you, the plebs, I must say, many times for the children of the common people you consider to be servants, there is a broken public education. This should be changed if you really want a civil and independent society. And then let's get some statistics. Mr State Secretary, you quoted me, and I will also quote from the European Commission's education and training monitor. Let's see. In 2010, the proportion of underachieving 15-year-old Hungarians in reading was 17.6%, which deteriorated to 25.3% by 2020. In terms of mathematics, 22.3% deteriorated in 2010 to 25,6 percent in 2020. Natural sciences were 14.1 percent in 2010, which deteriorated to 24.1 percent by 2020. While in 2010 we were better at all three areas than the EU average, by 2020, we are worse off than the EU average in all three areas. And then there is another number: in 2010, the proportion of young people who left early school was 10.8 percent, which became 12.1 percent, and I would add that this figure is almost two thirds among Gypsy youths. Secretary of State, there was talk of financial appreciation for the teachers, let it be about morals. A few years ago, he shuddered at the mood of an entire country when, say, young people in Mezőtúr or Pesterzsébet were attacking teachers; young people in whose family assertive communication probably meant nothing; young people who hold pit bulls instead of guinea pigs, let's say, and young people whose families actually have violence in their families. What example do you set, Mr Secretary of State or fellow members of the Government, when these teachers, who are really setting an example for our children by implementing the Axiom in Kásler, are they setting them on the edge of the carpet, or, where appropriate, are they being fired, or are one of the propagandaists of the NER declaring them to be scum? So, if we expect those young people to respect teachers, then I ask you to respect your teaching colleagues as a zero step. I'd like to bring you a story from South Somogy. The country's first peasant-born Member of Parliament, István Nagyatádi Szabó, wrote it in his recollections, and they knew it there in South Somogy, that when he returned to his village, Erdőchokonya, he always took his hat off, thanking him, calling his former teacher Master. That's the kind of respect teachers expect from you. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-02-239	Thank you very much. Three minutes and 45 seconds left for Congressman Brenner Koloman.
u2022-11-02-240	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to continue to present our honest, sober and so fair, balanced conservative position. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] what Jobbik believes should be present in today's debate in this priority national strategy sector rather than discussing what happened before 2010, when our political community did not even sit in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Complaining from the pro-government ranks: Fortunately!]] Let me begin by saying that we think of a very flawed governance structure that we see during the 12 years of Fidesz' governance, and we think that we need a single Ministry of Education that spans all areas from kindergarten to university, and even adult education, because in our holistic view, the unity that we call education cannot be divided into different areas, and these cannot be assigned to different ministries, because it will be exactly what we have seen in the last 12 years. We think that this is an area that can only be viewed in unity, because it is the 21st century. In the centuries of knowledge and information, the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens depend on their ability to acquire the knowledge, skills and skills needed for a balanced and happy life. Where is the issue of digitalization, the question of roboticization, really? Where is the debate here about why, for example, public education does not provide adequate foreign language skills for young Hungarians? Not everyone can be as lucky as I am: as a citizen of Sopron poncichter, my mother tongue is German. I think that we should have a balanced professional debate on these issues, which will not only remain on the ground that you are practically pointing to Brussels politically, indeed, as my fellow Member Ander said, and I think that this debate is also taking place at a time when everyone in this Hungarian society is really watching Hungarian politicians rise to this task. However, we also make concrete proposals on this matter. We said that there should be a Klebelsberg turn in the Hungarian education issue. Turn 8 percent of the Hungarian national product into education instead of 6 per cent of GDP. This would be an immediate 50 percent wage increase. Otherwise, it would be very important to give special pay to teaching colleagues in the break-down regions, and otherwise it would be very important to introduce a monitoring system throughout the Hungarian education system, which constantly indicates where the whole system needs to be corrected so that we can finally improve these indicators presented by my fellow Member Ander together. Finally, one final line of thought on the university world. I think that after 12 years the Hungarian university world has also reached an important turning point here, where we believe it has been proven that only Fidesz potentates should not be appointed in curatoriums, and the Hungarian university world deserves more. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-02-241	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue Group indicated that three speakers [[Intercom from the pro-government ranks: Big faction!]] describe the group's position in the 10-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó.
u2022-11-02-242	Dear Fidesz, our fellow Members from KDNP, we have become accustomed to you in such debates that you are not telling the truth. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks:]] It wasn't any different today. But I didn't do it by accident, so I did it with specific numbers. Bence Rétvári immediately began with his very baroque sentence of how much more money was spent on education here than in previous years. The fact is that, according to the KSH table, it was the fact that in 2002 5.4 percent of education was spent as a proportion of GDP, in 2012 only 4.1 and 3.8 percent of GDP was spent on education. [[18.00]] You always say that the performance of the economy must be measured by how much you spend. Over the last ten years, thanks to EU money, money has been flowing in here. Interestingly, why didn't you guys brisket when the money came in? Why didn't you spend Brussels' money on educators' wages? ! Then why did you have to spend 70 billion forints on cretin hunting exhibitions and world fairs in Dubai and hundreds of billions on stadiums? ! That's because you could steal the money, and you couldn't steal the money from the teachers, and you didn't like it. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Their next lie is how well we perform the PISA tests. I showed you this chart the other day. [[He's showing me a document. Bence Rétvári: Rising.]] A little bit. We are still not reaching the 2010 level, but as my fellow Members here... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Yeah, this is red Poland, and the green is Hungary, okay? So we're doing so well in the PISA tests. As has been said here, the share of underachieving 15-year-olds in the field of reading was 25 percent in 2019. This means that one in four Hungarian children virtually cannot read. Do you think that's a good achievement? We didn't say, unlike Bence Rétvári, that you didn't do anything, we said that you destroyed public education in the last 12 years; that's a big difference. As regards the wage increase for teachers, let me quote Minister Palkovics, who said in 2016 that the average salary for teachers will be 80% of the average salary for graduates by 2017. First of all, I'd like to ask you, why are teachers only worth 80% of the average salary? So they're only gonna do 80 percent in schools, too? ! But it wasn't even possible to do that by 2017, even though they hadn't brunzeled there yet, but they didn't. So stop doing this when we get the money from Brussels and you don't stop it because it's a lie and it's lame. So let's finally give them the raise they deserve. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Here, I also brought you a sign, very interesting [[He's showing me a document.]] the salaries of teachers in proportion to the payments made by the graduates, 2020. You know, this green one, it's the last place in Hungary. Before that there is Costa Rica, Latvia, Finland, Australia, Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Slovakia, Poland, virtually everyone else, I do not read it through. I also brought you another [[He's presenting another document.]] , starting pay for teachers in 2019-20. Now, that little red one, that's Hungary, that's good, just to see it this way. We also have Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Latvia, everyone else. This is the starting salary, 220,000 forints. That's what they say, isn't it? It was very interesting that neither Zoltán Maruzsa nor Róbert Zsigó dared to say how much the wage increase was promised next year. Let's just say that the significant wage increase you said was 10 percent. This is what you think is a significant wage increase when I wrote down the price of bread in the last year, the price of cheese increased by 76 percent, and the price of margarine increased by 68 percent and the price of margarine by 61 percent. The Dialogue presented the 45 percent wage increase proposal demanded by teachers. You had the cover, you wiped it off, you couldn't afford it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: You're lying!]] Of course, it is for the construction of 47 billion stadiums, because even though Viktor Orbán is speaking with him, he has just appeared in the Hungarian Gazette on 19 October, not enough for you in Nyíregyháza and all the money that has been earmarked and stolen for the Fradi sports facilities, 47 billion more have been added to him, and then there will be Gyurcsányás and brüszelés. How do you guys really have the skin in your faces, like, the Nagy Lajos High School of the Cistercian Order of Pécs or the St. Imre High School of the Cistercian Order of Buda? ! [[Eszter Vitalos: How do you even have the nerve to stand up?!]] Because they joined in, they also issued a statement that they would join and support the teachers. Interesting, then Viktor Orbán's former high school, the Teleki Blanka High School in Székesfehérvár, is also a Gyurcsány-bérence because they joined the protest of teachers. [[Noise. Intercoms from the ruling parties. Nacsa Lawrence: Don't lie!]] Stop this! Stop lying to me! Here's your 45 percent raise. Here's to taking back the fired students. Who's gonna teach me tomorrow? No teacher, no future. Pay our teachers! These demands, please fulfill them. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-11-02-243	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The next speaker was Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-244	Thank you, Mr. President. I am very touched by this recent interest in the situation of Hungarian education from colleagues in Fidesz and KDNP. I didn't see you at the protests. The thing is, they don't dare go out with people... [[Noise. Eszter Vitalos: We don't go selfie.]] Yeah, 'cause you guys wouldn't want to be self-indulgent there, that's the thing. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Eszter Vitalos: You are ridiculous!]] They know that they have ruined the education themselves, so they are protesting against themselves, and they agree with us that there are very serious problems in Hungarian schools. It could be a breakthrough because more and more parents realize that the school they're sending their kid to is giving it back to him in a much worse state. The children are simply in a terrible state of mind, their mental health is already threatened by the situation they have created in the Hungarian public education system. [[Noise. Bence Rétvári: Stop scolding children!]] And just as I was thinking about it, I was confronted with the professional resolution signed by 300 kindergarten and school psychologists, which reads as follows: the psychic condition of children is worryingly worsening, anxiety, behavioral and attention disorder in kindergartens, depression, panic, self-absorbedness or even more serious mental disorders in schools have become a common phenomenon. They refer to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that one of the main objectives of education is to promote the development of children's personalities, but also to guarantee their right to rest, to spend leisure time, to play and to entertain. Compared to this, it is clear that the public education system, which you have built up, does not comply with these principles. Again, I quote psychologists: in the long term, the mental well-being of children is seriously compromised; the problem is emerging early; the most important need of the kindergarten age group is stability and predictability, which is increasingly hampered by the high fluctuations affecting teachers; this lack of safety contributes to the increasing emergence of anxiety marks, behavioral problems, attention disturbance, and repeated personal changes make it difficult to detect early developmental delays. [[Noise in KDNP lines.]] But similarly serious is... why do they keep talking? [[Bence Rétvári: More respect for teachers! István Hollik: You insult teachers!]] I understand the truth hurts. I understand you feel your responsibility in this situation. I understand that they can't do anything by ruining the issue of Hungarian education so much, and our children are the ones who are paying for it. I understand that they don't take responsibility for the 40-50 hours a week for children; the tenth grade children have 50 hours for their average weekly activity. So it would be nice if you guys had a little bit of a fight, and XX. From the 21st century onwards, they would come to XXI and develop an education system that would take into account children's interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-11-02-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman András Imre Jámbor is next. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-246	Thank you very much for the floor. Fellow Members! The current teacher protests go beyond education. Inflation is above 20 percent, average wages have decreased since April and overhead costs are increasing. Increased wages in recent years have evaporated. The German Chamber of Industry and the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Industry, László Parragh, also say what we say: the economic policy of the last 12 years has been based on low wages, weak labour law and immeasurable money given to the multinationals. For three years, the labour costs of a multinational have been paid, from 19 to 9 percent of the corporate tax has been deducted and collected at 5.4 percent, and even lower than the multis. This money is missing from education, health care, social security. And because of the low wages, the salary is also missing from people's wallets. The resulting overtime, lack of rest, stress at work, tortured workers do not lead to a happy country. That's why teachers, mailmen, garbagemen, drivers are protesting today. Your poor and neglected education system, brutally demented vocational education, where even basic education has been led, makes it impossible for productivity to grow in Hungary, making it impossible for workers to regain control over their lives and futures. But instead, you emptied the strike rights of teachers and other sectors, referring to Covid, so that after Covid, they could sanction it by law. You're talking about all the work, but you're crushing all the opportunities to fight for a living, to fight for a living. It's really easy to preach from these chairs up here to people who wake up in the dark in the morning and come home in the dark at night. But in fact, living is everything, knowledge is everything, and the country is everything if its citizens can imagine it, and they get the chance to move from one to two, and from two to three. We must create a country where work is not the end goal, but the end goal is security, livelihood, chance. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, MSZP and DK.]] [[18.10]]
u2022-11-02-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dóra Dúró, vice-president of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the group of our countries. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is extremely disappointing to hear the speeches. One feels that you have no other purpose in this debate than to try to win it on a party-political basis, namely, pro-government speakers are choosing statistics that have improved under their governance and presenting them, and left-wing Members are selecting statistics that have deteriorated over the last 12 years and reading them. What they're trying to prove on Fidesz's part is that they govern better than the Gyurcsánys did, which in itself is not a high standard. So if you're trying to relate yourself to this, and you're proud to govern better than the Gyurcsánys, I suggest you don't be satisfied with that. The left tries to be as strong as possible in the debate that Fidesz is worse than the previous governments, and that every deterioration in education over the past 12 years has been solely the government's responsibility. I would like to be outside this debate, and I would like to talk about the problems I see in public education, and what solutions they may propose, because we should all bear in mind that we are talking about our children. I have three schoolchildren and a kindergarten kid. Every day, every week I study with them, I sit next to them reading, as a mother, every day I see what happens at school. They don't go to private schools, they go to district public schools, and as parents, I think it's our job to contribute to the successful, happy, conscious and capable of bringing up children and adults. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: That's right!]] I would like you to bear this in mind in this debate, and your subsequent manifestations would be in the spirit of this. It is a fact that if we look at the staff of teachers in Hungary, we cannot see much encouraging data, since half of primary school teachers are over 50 years of age, while the proportion of teachers under 30 is only 6 percent in Hungary. It can be terrifying in itself for the future, but pointing at each other and saying who is responsible for this is not going to get us anywhere. It is obvious and has been said many times in this debate that one of the main reasons, perhaps even the main reason, is the wage level, which Hungary is now able to provide to our teachers. I find it unreliable from the government to point out that they are pointing to Brussels on this matter. I understand, and you are right that these budgetary resources belong to Hungary. I believe that they should walk even if we do not amend any laws to pressure in Brussels in Hungary. But you have the opportunity to raise the wages of teachers from domestic government funds. There are many public sectors in Hungary where there is a shortage of staff and underpaid people of the same size as education, but during your last 12 years of governance, there may not have been a case that would have made those affected so much into a protest block as it is now the case of education. This in itself shows that despite the fact that various statistics are being read here, this is a burning, extremely big problem in Hungary, to which the answer is burning, cannot wait until 2026 and 2027 and cannot depend on Brussels. It can't depend on it, either, because in the coming years, if the wage increase doesn't happen, there will be more and more teachers leaving the field. We can include in a number war how many teachers are missing, we can look at statistics on the proportion of students per teacher in other countries of Europe, but we can see that most of the participants in education are satisfied, and I have many right-wing, specifically right-wing, teachers out there in these protests because they approach this issue on a professional basis and on a livelihood basis. That's what I want, and that's what I expect from the government. What vision awaits Hungary based on today's educational data? The PISA surveys show that one in four Hungarian children is at the lowest level of measurement, and indeed, the proportion of early school leavers increased compared to 2010 and nearly two thirds of the Roma population are those who leave the Hungarian school system without any marketable qualifications. Let's talk about what will happen to them, what will happen to Hungary, what will be the future if one in four children aged 15 does not understand what they are reading! How will we be able to stand our ground like this in the 21st century? In the century? Our demographic indicators have also been deteriorating for over 40 years. If the proportion of debtors and dependants changes accordingly, Hungarian public finances will become unsustainable in about 20 years. One solution is to think very carefully about what and how much of the curriculum is included in the National Basic Study Plan. He has spoken for a long time, and now he may have become a public place on the part of the participants in education, and I think that every day everyone sees that the amount of teaching material in the National Basics Plan is extremely burdensome for children, unable to master it, and I would add that there should also be changes in content, because the kind of national education expected by many right-wing voters after the two-thirds Fidesz victory in 2010 has not yet taken place in the education system. Let me just mention the example that the Battle of Bratislava is still an additional curriculum in the Hungarian history books, but not all children need to learn. The question often arises of the need for an independent Ministry of Education. It is also true of the pro-government Members that this alone does not provide any assurance. This is true, during the Gyurcsány government, the pedagogical discharges took place when there was a Ministry of Education in Hungary. At the same time, it is ridiculous that the Ministry of Interior belongs to most of the education, which, by the way, is in Nauru only in the world outside Hungary. So the fact that there is no strong politician in the government who can represent the issue of education in the government does contribute in this governance structure to the fact that the issue of education, in addition to many other things, could therefore be mentioned as a stepchild of this government in the healthcare or social system. Our goal can be to build our children a future, a country where they are worth living and where they can manage their own merits, their own knowledge, their own goals. I believe that if we are to discuss the problems of education in a professional way, we must find solutions to these issues without taboos. There is no delay in educators' wage increases, there is no delay in facing the failure of the policy of catching up over the last 30 years, and there is no delay in fundamentally reforming the education system, because we see that one in four of the 15-year-old children does not understand what they are reading. These are our common problems, our children's problems, our future problems. I urge you to take part in this debate with appropriate responsibility. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-11-02-249	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group indicated that two of their speakers presented their group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy. Here you go. [[18.20]]
u2022-11-02-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we are really looking at the problems of education, then I think that these can be grouped into two dimensions: firstly, there are acute or acute problems and there are long-term chronic challenges. In any case, it is an acute problem to talk about the pay situation of teachers. The salary of a beginner educator is hardly more than HUF 200,000 net. Obviously, it is not possible to make a living in Hungary today, especially if inflation affects civil servants in particular, especially teachers. Only this year, this record inflation took a month's salary from them. Such an acute problem is also the number of vacant posts. On the previous day of debate on social law, it was also a debate day, since it took a whole day to clear the numbers with Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. It's always nice to watch the KSH numbers. For the first quarter of 2022, this is the latest data, with 7973 vacant posts in education, so there are nearly 8 000 jobs missing. A significant part of this is a teaching job indeed. Obviously, there is an acute problem beyond the wage situation as to the promises made to teachers regarding the teacher's career model. The main problem here is the already mentioned screening fund, one of the main problems is that it has not been possible to tie this to the minimum wage, and this would indeed have ensured a continuous wage increase. If we keep going, we'll see chronic and long-term problems. I have grouped this on the basis of the three pillars of eco-policy and I would like to talk about them in the dimensions of justice, participation and sustainability. We believe from the LMP that one of the most important problems with Hungarian education is the problem of justice and injustice. This means inequality, because there are completely different options and chances for students depending on what family they are born into, what settlement they are born into. This determines what kind of kindergarten, kindergarten, and later educational facilities they attend. It is not only a matter of looking at the best and worst-performing results in terms of PISA measurements, the difference exceeds 170 points, but it is also a question, and the secretary of state did not mention that this social status in Hungary calls the PISA survey a very high proportion and a proportion of the students' educational outcomes. This is extremely unfair, because it really matters to a great extent how people come from, how they get into education. We're podiums from that point of view. Country names have been spoken; Peru is the worst performer, followed by Belarus, and the third worst performer from this point of view is Hungary. Obviously, an education system would be needed where the talent and diligence of students would determine how they can succeed later in life, what results they achieve. From the point of view of participation, it is essential to highlight the maintenance model, the nationalisation and centralisation of schools, that schools have been taken away from settlements. This is very, very bad, because the involvement of the local level has virtually ceased, and the channeling of local interests, values, ideas and knowledge through the municipalities has become virtually impossible for Hungarian education, so we lose opportunities and resources. Otherwise, this centralisation was justified at the beginning by balancing inequalities in Hungarian education. PISA results show that this failed. Finally, I would like to talk about the sustainability dimension. We think that if we are talking about an energy crisis and a climate crisis, education is a very important point of the eruption, what we are preparing future generations for. This is not just about natural science training and the lack of teachers there, because obviously the links to climate are the most discussed in geography and physics, but about the holistic, horizontal approach to raising these challenges in every subject, every lesson, and to show how to break out from different aspects. If we look at solutions, wage increases and reduction of burdens are obviously a solution to short-term problems. How we face long-term challenges is a very, very good question. Moreover, Hungarian education has not found the really good solutions in the last 50-60 years. I think freedom, autonomy, self-reliance should start with a return. This is the starting point for all progress. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of LMP and Momentum.]]
u2022-11-02-251	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, will continue his speech as the second lead speaker.
u2022-11-02-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests, But one of the biggest problems in this matter is that you are lying, lying and lying; you are lying when you say you want a national consensus on how to solve education. What can be said when, on a day of debate, you shape the circumstances of the debate by discussing three to four, seven to eight minutes in addition to the keynote speeches? I think the importance of this case deserves a lot more than that. At the same time, they lie when you're talking about respect for teachers, because you don't show respect for teachers. They don't show, and not just because András Bencsik said that scum covered the teaching field, but I think that they don't respect teachers when they're being treated like idiots for the expression. The fact is, however, that they are lying, and this is perhaps the most tangible when they say that EU funds have anything to do with educators' wages. Not this year, not last year, not the year before last, and I can tell you, there was no EU funding for teachers' wages. Teacher's wages have always been managed from the national budget, and if you can't do that, then there's a big problem. But I believe that this money is available in the current budget. Speaking of respect, I think it is worth seeing how you can call it respect when teachers' wages are tied to the 2014 minimum wage. I think it tells us everything that you have tied the salary of the domestic teachers to the labourer's salary of 14th. No wage less than the minimum wage shall be paid. I think there is a result, because today, a teacher who has been teaching for 4-5 years can't earn more than a guaranteed minimum wage with any qualifications. It would be easy to settle if the projection fund was tied to the current minimum wage. Yes, that would be a significant increase, and I think that it would indeed approximate the level of payment our teachers deserve. It is very important to talk about what this neglect is causing you to show in relation to the education system. The education system is on the verge of collapse. We found nearly 800 ads on the public service job portal. Two thirds of this was about teaching. Most places they wanted to hire math teachers. I think I don't have to explain to anyone what a bright future a young man today might think of, putting his head on the teaching field. Between us, there are teachers with qualifications, teachers with experience in the pro-government benches. The only question I have is if you think the rate of payment that best expresses the problem is right. And you really think 10 percent is enough to solve the problem? Ladies and gentlemen, This year, inflation is above 20 percent, food prices are well above 30 percent, compared with 10 percent for our fellow educators. I would very much ask you to start talking seriously and respectfully about this problem, because it is certainly not respectable that you have been able to sit down with teachers four times in six months since the government was formed. I think that all Hungarian citizens, students, parents and educators have the right to expect to settle teachers' wages. [[18.30]] I think that the only way to do this is to tie it to the guaranteed minimum wage as a projection fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-11-02-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I would like to speak first from the Momentum Group to Mrs Anna Orosz. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-254	Thank you for the floor. We still have time for this four-hour debate. When this debate started on the subject of education, we asked you not to shift your responsibility, not to point fingers at others, but to give meaningful answers to the demands of civilians, students, teachers and parents. I've made a note of what they've been talking about since then, and they've done nothing but take responsibility, give unnecessary inflation, and zero zero! they have provided concrete information on how they intend to address the situation of schools. Look students, parents or teachers in the eye and tell them that the Hungarian education system is not good because in 2006 and 2004 this happened! [[Bence Rétvári: We're looking into your eyes!]] Look them in the eye and tell them [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact that teachers' wages cannot be settled is that students are overloaded because of the fact that the European Union does not give you money to settle the situation in schools. Gentlemen and ladies, as many as you have, you have been ruling this country for 12 years with two-thirds authority. Answer when there will be meaningful steps to give educators, parents and students a reassuring answer and to give our children modern European quality education! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-11-02-255	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the DK Group, Mr Barkóczi Balázs is next.
u2022-11-02-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That's how I'm gonna tell you. If I've already promised, I'll tell you the plan of action that Klára Dobrev's shadow government has worked out. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] just because my fellow members of the government seem to be the only thing they can talk about. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What was before 2010. Then I'll tell you what happens after 2022. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I could react, Congressman Nacsa, but I'm just afraid that I'd have to go down to a level where I'd be sick. So let's see this action plan. 1. Teachers who have been unlawfully laid off immediately [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] With effect from the date of entry into their original post, disciplinary penalties and district threats should be withdrawn. The government should apologize to the fired teachers. 2. The basic salary of those classified under the pedagogue scheme should be increased by 45%, not in 2025, not in months, years, but now, as it is a debt of many years. 3. The salary of non-educator workers at A1 shall be increased to the minimum wage, B1 to the guaranteed minimum wage and F1 to 130 per cent. 4. Teachers' working hours with weekly education and training should be maximized for 22 hours, and the schedule of pedagogical and pedagogical assistants for child care should be maximized for 35 hours a week. 5. This has already been said: the strike law must be immediately repealed, the right to strike given back to teachers. 6. Last but not least, the State must return the schools to the municipalities, together with resources for their maintenance. Teachers can feel safer this way, because while local governments were responsible for schools, it would not have occurred that respected teachers, recognised by students, parents and the profession, would be threatened and fired. I'm telling you, you can't do this anymore, and we will do it for Hungary, for parents, for students, for the future of our children. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Hollik is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, There have been a number of left-wing sentences that I think we have an obligation to respond to. I'd respond to one of those. Congressman Tordai was able to say that I quote him literally, that the school is giving the children back to the parents in worse shape than they got in. I understand that you've come here to pin everything on the government, but please stay within the limits of common sense. Thus, Congressman Tordai is not criticising the government, but insulting the teachers and declaring their work. Because if someone says that, what does that mean? This means that teachers do not pass on any knowledge, teachers do not teach children community cooperation or even teach them anything. So please don't insult teachers in the heat of argument. Here I would like to take this opportunity to thank all teachers. One of my three children goes to a public school and the other to a church school, and I see that there are differences, but one is the same: all teachers do their work hard and sacrifice. Please take this into account and appreciate the teachers, and don't make excuses to insult teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, Ms Rebecca Szabó is next. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-260	Thank you for the floor. Mr Hollik, it's okay, we respect teachers and you give them a raise. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Because you've been on the government for 12 years with two-thirds, and you still have the nerve to blame the opposition for only 64 percent of the average salary that teachers earn. This is an outrage! And that's why it's your fault, and it's also because at national level about 6,000 kindergarten educators and 8,000 elementary and secondary school teachers are missing from the system with about 2,000 retired teachers teaching. So this is a very big shortage, and that's why education is so difficult, because education is so bad, because other teachers are burdened, they often have to teach things by replacing them, which is not their primary profession, and that's why they can't teach in the right quality. Yeah, and also because the textbooks are a disaster. I also wanted to mention this, because the Secretary of State of Rétvári and István Hollik mentioned that they made a wow but super textbook supply here in education. No, please, just as you nationalised the textbook market, stopped the free textbook selection, this has already been protested by students, teachers, parents' organizations, because the textbooks are outrageously bad. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to point out, for example, that in the eighth grade history book, you excused Miklós Horthy and portrayed Hitler as a sympathetic figure. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Csaba Dömötör: Jesus! Bence Rétvári: Don't be ridiculous.]] Specifically, there's propaganda in the textbooks. Orbán's speech in Brussels had to be analysed in agreement by students in an eighth grade history book. [[It's grumpy.]] There was a sexist questionnaire in the 11th grade textbook on whether women were unable to have a serious conversation, and Sándor Kányádi's quote on poet Sándor Kányádi's wedding rhymes, and there are such huge bloopers on this fantastic, nationalized and ruined textbook market. Thank you. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-11-02-261	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Statement by each of its representatives will now take place, in accordance with the preliminary notification made by the factions in writing. First, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, leader of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-11-02-262	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to start with something we don't have a lot of debate about. From week to week, news is coming from various sites in the Hungarian press about how many Hungarian high school students or university students are playing better and how many international competitions SOTE has become one of the 200 best universities in the world. This phenomenon may be isolated by you, but it does not mean that the Hungarian education system, as you say, would have collapsed. In fact, behind these children are teachers who have taught them all this, who have prepared them for this. I would like to join Congressman Hollik so much that I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these sentences, although they intend to humiliate us, still humiliate teachers. I would also politely remind you that you were the ones who, under Covid, said similarly that health care had collapsed. [[18.40]] So I ask you, because of the people who work in it, to form your words so that you can't accidentally be here, but also among those involved, as you can now, according to the rules of the Hungarian language. I would also like to note that Congresswoman Kunhalmi and Mr Gergely Arató, in a loud voice, Mr Arató, quite in the form of a public councilman, have been told by Congressman Nacsa that he is lying. We didn't lock up under the Gyurcsány government, he said schools, because we weren't his supporters. I would like to say to young contestants and colleagues that I have had the pleasure of running a city in the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. [[Gergely Harvesto: Then you closed schools!]] Mr. Harvesto, your cynicism has its limits, so first of all be quiet, second of all listen very carefully, because this is the hard part, okay? ! This looked like Budapest VIII. in his district, dear colleagues, and how Mr Arató has the cynicism of the public council, they will find out at the end; he says that he has not closed schools, well, Budapest VIII. The basic standard of education in the district was HUF 1 billion 436 million in 2006 and HUF 525 million in 2010. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, no!]] Don't shake your head, 'cause I know, and you don't know. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] And that was the basic norm. In addition, additional standards such as integration and ability-opening supplemental normative were removed, which was of great importance in our district. I would like to point out to my completely missing Gypsy colleagues that the ethnic supplemental normative has completely disappeared, that its feedings have been reduced, and that the textbook and educator education normative has completely disappeared. So to say that we didn't close it, but that it was the municipalities, the kind of cynicism, that it is difficult to react calmly to, and yet I have now done, on the one hand, to be happy. On the other hand, I am asking you to choose your arguments very carefully, especially your lying accusations, because there were many municipalities in Hungary that had to close a total of 381 schools across the country, which were not in the lucky position of a large municipality, so that we could make up for the educational expenses with HUF 2.7 billion each year with our own resources. The settlements smaller or poorer than us had to close the schools. In fact, in the countryside, the upper classes were assembled and the children had to be bused to neighboring settlements or two further away in the mornings. It's been 12 years, and you're telling me that we didn't shut up the schools, but the local authorities, it's such an outrageous cynicism, Mr. Secretary of State, I called Mr. Secretary of State on purpose, because it's on your conscience, because you were the secretary of state for education, which is hard to find words for. I would also like to say to Congressman Barkóczi that, in addition to qualifying for your shadow I don't know what your shadow party president or hell knows who the Gyurcsány has now privatized the textbook publisher, which the younger colleagues don't remember, that there was a HUF 4.2 billion offer on it, but it was sold for HUF 3.2 billion just to keep it in a circle of friends. When you're looking for 16,000 teachers, but it might hurt you to lose 15,000 teachers in the country, you were fired from your job to be precise when you were able to take the funds out of the local government. Under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, only 65% of the expenditure side of institutional budgets was covered by items coming from the state normative. This means that the municipality that didn't have 35 percent plus own funds deposits failed its school. I have one more thing to say. There is a government based on the majority of government elected by the people, and it has an requested prime minister. The Prime Minister is forming a government. This governance structure is always disputed by the opposition. Where the education government is located is a decision, but it now operates in this structure. However, let me bring you an analogy: under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, he was a labor minister, and there was 14 percent unemployment. There's no Minister of Labour now, and there's three percent unemployment. I'd like to ask you, do you really think there's anything that depends on a government will to give a rendezvous to an intent if we call it a self-contained wallet? I understand that they are trying to hold on to everything, but believe me that politics, as an experience genre, shows us that it doesn't matter what they call that institution or the ministry again to govern the Lords of Arató, if the highest unemployment in the country's history is obviously from 1990 I think my point of view is exactly when the Ministry of Labour is founded. And let me say one more thing, which was rather rude and personal; perhaps Congressman Toth said it. I have twice as many children as you do. I'd like to tell you that if you're talking about someone else's children... [[Szabó Timea:]] My dear Timea, I have listened to you, in silence, it was difficult, but I have done it, do it in return, so when you speak of other children, or the relationship between the parent and the child, well, don't do it, because it is the most rude thing in the world. You have no idea which one of us is in a relationship with your child. We don't judge your relationship with your child. Don't do that, because you're in a mood in this House that goes much deeper than political debate. I only brought this here because you are trying to argue with us on something that we fundamentally agree on; I will only keep this quietly. If you ask the question by wanting, striving, we want the Hungarian teachers to look for you better, of course. It's just what you say because our kids go to school. And believe me, we know all about them; we also know what their teachers are like, how they come home, and yes, we have a talking relationship with them. And if you ask us if we want their circumstances to improve, there will be no discussion between us. But if you say our kids aren't talking to us, it's a rude, hurtful and rude personal thing and you're taking it all the wrong way. So if you really want to talk to us about serious things, be kind and respect these forms or respect the framework. One sentence in closing. You can read our heads about why we're pointing back. With a well-meaning assumption, I allow myself to do so, and the younger ones can do so because they really don't understand how the boots get on the table. But there are older people here. And what is truly outrageous is when the so-called shadow government, who has once been in government power, stands up and lectures us, while this government provides light-years better performance in terms of job creation, education, health care and all. But they, you know, they're the same, they're exactly the same people telling us what we should be doing, as if they didn't have the opportunity to show us in their lives. So when you see there's a debate, an emotional debate, and, as you say, there's a flashback debate, that's why. They'd at least shut up, you know, at least shut up after what they've done to this country. Mr. Harvesto, I was mayor at the time: a billion forints were withdrawn from the one and a half; one of the one and a half, in case you understand it better. Don't shake your head, I'll say it again, because you don't know, and I can. Remove a billion forints from a district's education system, imagine the damage it has done to a smaller, poorer settlement. And if you're going to speak a thousand times more about any government matter, yes, be friends with him, we'll tell you a thousand times that you'd rather be quiet. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We agree on few things, but that's something. I think we agree that education is a national issue, and that the Hungarian public education system should provide students with competitive knowledge and respect for teachers. By the way, I think it is okay for opposition representatives to attack the government on a debate day or even outside of it to do so by the opposition, but it is not okay to insult teachers; it is not okay. And if they suggest that the Hungarian students are getting out of school in worse shape than they got into, they will not kick the Hungarian government, they will not kick the representatives here, they will kick the people they referred to at the debate day initiative. [[18.50]] Now, what this government has done in the last 12 years, I think, is an important question. Let's start with the raises. I am arguing with Mr Barkóczi, who may have said that it is no longer primarily a question of wages. I think that the issue of wages is also important in this debate, and it is an important fact that the government launched a comprehensive career model for teachers, including a 50% wage increase from 13 to 17; during the epidemic, there was a wage increase, this January as well, the Prime Minister promised that there would be a wage increase in January as well, and we would also like to use EU funds to increase wages to an even greater extent, not only EU funds, but also EU funds. I regret that a number of results have not been highlighted in this debate in recent years, such as 4576 pre-school and school projects; I apologise to Mrs Dóra Dúró for saying statistics here, but I think that the question of faith can be overcome by starting from statistics and facts. One of the Members mentioned the digital tools. More than 100,000 digital devices have reached schools, including computers, desktops, tablets. The issue of textbook provision is also important: from the 2020/21 academic year 1-16. [[Sic!]] So every student is a student! You will receive the textbook free of charge, regardless of maintenance. The performance of students has improved in competence measurements, so while you are trying to set them as functional illiterates, the 2019 TIMSS measurement also proves that out of four categories the Hungarian students have achieved a European average, but in three of them they have achieved a far above the European average. The results of the PISA survey in 2018 have improved significantly in all three measurement areas; the three measurement areas are text understanding, mathematics and science. I also consider it an important achievement that the school's ability to create a chance has improved. According to the 2018 PISA survey, the impact of the family background on school performance was 19 per cent, and in 2009 this rate was still 26 per cent, so we can talk about a meaningful improvement. The competence measurements also show that the impact of the family background on school performance is a weakening trend in both measuring areas. I also consider it important that the National Basic Training Plan has been renewed. They didn't say anything, but according to the amendment, the time frame for free use within each subject has increased from 10 to 20 percent. And to say one more thing, it's a matter of safety. Before 2010, if I recall correctly, even teachers' unions asked the government, the government at that time, to protect teachers because of increasing school violence. School security is still an important issue, which is why it is an important achievement that we have introduced the school guard from the school year 2020/21, in which 570 institutions participate. Now, as to the claim that the shadow government, which you will obviously intend to become a government, would do things better, let us be very critical. You've had your chance once, ladies and gentlemen on the left, at a time when there was a separate Ministry of Education. And in the pre-2010 period, the debate was not about the extent to which wages should increase, and how to use EU funds to do so, or whether we should rely only on national resources; it was not about the fact that the increase that we have had was enough for teachers to have immediate drastic consequences instead of any dialogue. They were told that they were told that it wouldn't hurt, that it wouldn't hurt, but it really hurt the teachers. What does this mean by approaching the facts? First of all, despite the controversy, 15,000 teachers have been dismissed. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Not five, not 50, not 500, but 15 grand! I see that they are now trying to shift responsibility to the municipalities, but the government, the then government, has contributed to the redundancies by bleeding out the municipalities financially and not providing them with funds to maintain their schools. Those who could stay in their jobs were faced with losing a month's wages. The Russian Congresswoman has suggested why this should be pointed out. You are a new Member, so I actually understand this point. Madam Member, I think this issue is important because many of those who initiated this debate voted in favour of this one-month take, just to mention a few: Gergely Arató, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju, Lajos Oláh, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Zsolt Molnár, István Hiller Hiller! And, of course, Ferenc Gyurcsány, without whom these measures could not have been adopted. That's why it's important. And then you initiated this debate day. And since the municipalities did not have enough resources to maintain the institutions, education in small settlements has become impossible. And what was the result? The educational activity ceased in nearly 400 places, 381 places. You can't report such a negative record. Education has ceased in hundreds of places. We didn't have our fights like this. And free textbooks couldn't be expected like they are now. The price of textbooks increased by 68 percent in lower school, 72 percent in upper school and 71 percent in secondary school. The textbook package of primary schoolchildren, the price of it, could have reached HUF 20,000, not on the current price level, but on the current price level. This was the government that introduced the system of free textbooks. And let's not forget one more thing, that the left has proposed one more thing: tuition, tuition. I think, fellow Members, you do not agree that introducing tuition fees would improve opportunities and equal opportunities. Only the joint stand of the Hungarian people could prevent this in the 2008 referendum. And to mention one more thing, the privatisation that was rightly criticised for us in the period before 2010 did not spare education. The National Book Publisher has been privatized by the National Book Publisher! [[Dr. László Pósán: That's right!]] Who was the winner? Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner. He paid 3.2 billion, and there was a 4.2 billion offer. [[Eszter Vitalos: Wow, what have we got here?]] This government was this government! which once again owns 100% of the National Book Publisher. From these few examples, too, it is clear that those who initiated today's debate did nothing to improve the quality of public education and to show respect for teachers. And unfortunately, I have to see that their attitude hasn't changed since then. They settle for protests, use the issue of teachers for party policy purposes, take pictures at events, and then come here, to the House, and when it comes to voting, they do not vote for the amendments that would be necessary for EU funds to arrive as soon as possible. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: We voted for it!]] We do not just want to use EU funds to raise wages for teachers [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] , but we also want to use EU funds. So I would like to ask you that if you do not help us in these matters, at least don't prevent the government from expanding programmes to strengthen public education. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-265	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-02-266	Dear House, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Do you remember the moment when you first crossed the school gate or who taught you to write, read, count? I'm sure. After all, everyone had a teacher who held his hand on the school trip, who fixed the lower loop line of the swallow-tailed, g, letter, who rolled out the dent in the 5th digit with a red pen, who taught the jump school or the complicated conclusion of the shoelace, whose reading was the magical fantasy world itself, he was the master in capital. Yeah, he was out on the street, joined the teachers' strike, the live chain, or even the bridge booking. He may be retired, but he shouted to the crowd, "We are the grund." Maybe they're retired. However, the teacher of the younger fideszes is not yet a retired, active teacher, a teacher who worries not only about his current students, but also about his own and his colleagues' chosen profession. [[19.00]] What do you think, when you had the cut-out pear, apple, bear, giraffe, a hundred pieces of paper on your school bench overnight, when was that done? Late at night, night when everyone's asleep. Do you realize how tired an educator is when he's teaching all day? From bell to bell, you talk 45 minutes, teach, concentrate, raise, praise, then you have five to ten minutes to eat two bites, go to the bathroom and reach the next classroom, pick up the textbook of the next class, and prepare the aids for the watch. This is repeated seven or eight times until late afternoon. And the delay is forbidden, unacceptable, the students can't be alone for a moment, in the mandatory room, in the hallway, in the yard. After teaching, private lessons, statistics come, and each week you get a couple of papers corrected, which is a two-to-three-page written answer of at least 60 students, and it is not enough to percentage, rate, but also to be translated into the diary, not to mention impromptu reception hours, consultations with students or parents after hours and between hours. The transfer of knowledge is a combination of hard spiritual and physical work. No, you don't know that, or if you do, you think it's natural. Overcrowding, low wages, raising, educating children, supervising Fidesz wasn't worth it. Three times ten percent, that's it! Then one day, 20.8 percent in 2023, 25 percent in 2024 and 30 percent in 2025, and this is still not the minimum wage. Do you know how much an active educator learns until he gets close to the cathedral? Then, despite the cathedral, he cannot surrender to the beauty of the oblivious teaching, because he must conform to the life model invented by Fidesz, which was incorrectly introduced, not experimentally, to work in practice, but to be pumped into the entire education system. There are some teachers who, by the time they introduced the teacher's promotional system, already had two or three or four major degrees, but none of this was enough for you. The Fidesz 30-60 hours of courses and degrees came, intern, ped. I., ped. Second, master educator, research teacher. Don't be bored by the Hungarian educator, write a life-long portfolio per cycle, don't worry about the child, don't get time for your family, but roll over the 40-50 pages at night, produce a slideshot lecture on your work so far! All this for a net of 20-40 thousand forints, so that your impertinent little basic salary will be a little more small change. They invented the system of experts, supervisors and consultants that had already been abolished in the 1990s, which brought disproportionate discrimination and injustices into the system which was already falling apart. They have created an anti-teacher and student system, they are systematically debauching society, even though you have a training educator in your circle, so they received the whisper at the beginning of creating a fidesz pedagogical career model: boys, the system is working badly and bumping, you are burdening the pedagogical society unnecessarily, if the goal is to get tired, you are at the finish line, stop! Put your apologies in your vocabulary, you don't even need money for that. Heart, goodness, confession, recognition, exercise a gesture. More than 15,000 teachers are missing, and they're adding up to the trouble of firing teachers and firing them. Take them back, and the least you can do is apologize. I need an immediate raise. Teachers expect a minimum wage increase of 45% on their current accounts. The government brought the teachers into civil disobedience, making the right to strike and fundamental rights impossible by providing sufficient services. They've got it all figured out: an invisible strike, and they're the ones who pay for your mistake. Restore the right to strike. I want you to negotiate with the unions, and apologize for the pretense negotiations you've had so far. Do you know why they disobey? Because they see what you don't. They see the ravine, and they don't want to fall into it. You see this from students, parents, and taxi drivers honking on the street, bus drivers, the tinkering tram drivers. They all see that Hungarian education cannot meet future-oriented expectations. In relation to the village versus the city, there are a lot of deficit areas. All children have equal opportunities for a high level of education, but in our country we are light years away. The government's education policy has led to the mention of an educational caste system by educational experts. And some examples. Today's primary school system can be exited on several levels, a six-, eight-class high school, so the best performing students leave a class, i.e. there is no tensile force, performance is deteriorating, there is strong selection. In a small town in Borsod, where the proportion of disadvantaged students was the same in two educational institutions, one school is now 100 percent a collection place for children with a difficult fate and the other is the children of parents with higher status. Today, there is no chance for children born into poorer families to go up the social ladder by learning. 12 years ago, the number of disadvantaged students in higher education was 7-8 percent, and today it has fallen to 1 percent. With this so-called first generation intellectuals are slowly disappearing, the number of functional illiterates is growing in villages and small towns, and 15-year-old children have basic textual problems. In our country, education strengthens social differences, and power has no interest in changing that. For years, they have seen the deteriorating results, and they have not begun to correct the direction, and after so many uncredited promises, they have lost the trust of society. The street demonstrations not only reached the threshold of the capital, but all the points of our country, whether it be a village, a small town or a big city. They protest for teachers, students for the future of Hungarian education. Change course. Where you can choose textbooks. Where students are raised to life within a democratic framework. Where there is no need for strike because teachers practice their profession for decent wages. Where students don't take bridges, they take their place in classrooms. Where they don't produce street posters, they collect knowledge. Where they don't fill the mouth of intelligent educator society with the means of intimidation, they let it soar. Where the teacher opens the classroom smiling in the morning, and doesn't think about it in a narrow space of troubled daily life. Where students are not looking for teachers with lassos, but teachers are struggling during the extra work of over-subscription. Where, instead of a total lack of hope, there is a poor child who goes to the future with equal chances. Where the Ministry of Interior, rather than the Ministry of Education, has an educational policy concept. Where schools have professional, organisational and economic autonomy. Where the heads of institutions are not subordinate executives of the Fidesz power, but have decision-making powers. Where instead of a lifeless career model and rigid process control, there is a viable pedagogical further education system. Where there is not a network of political projects, but a high level of professionalism. Where power does not abuse, but exercises confidence from voters. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2022-11-02-267	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On the government's side, it's Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-268	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If I count correctly, we've been through about 17 opposition speeches on the left. We've heard a lot from you, but not what we're really curious about. There has not been one courageous speaker among you who would have said that yes, you will agree, your MEPs, your politicians in Brussels, will also do what we have expected of them in vain in recent years: they will come to the aid of Hungarian teachers, and they will contribute to the Hungarian teacher's wage increase not only from the extra HUF 86 billion fixed in the budget, but we will also use our own resources in the European Union to do so. I asked for the floor on the move because there are still a few opportunities to speak, each faction has about five minutes. We look forward to having at least one left-wing representative who says that both here and in Brussels will take the position that Hungarian teachers can receive this, and not the policy based on untruths and injustices that they have done so far, when they have openly and behind the scenes only prevented Hungary from using these resources. These sentences have not been said, and I hope they will be spoken later. [[19.10]] Other sentences, however, have been said. They were so delighted, ladies and gentlemen of the left, that they might have wanted to criticize us, but the teachers and students were insulted here by many of you when they said that the whole education was wrong, judging all teachers, or, as has already been said, that schools are giving the students back to the parents in worse shape than parents are bringing the students to school. I ask you to refrain from such sentences and do not insult Hungarian students or insult Hungarian teachers. To hold a mirror for you, not from a right-wing organ, but from a left-wing organ, the Web site of the present, let me read to you what your own fans wrote about you in relation to last week's parliamentary behavior, but actually a very good curved mirror for today's lecturers and students' insulting sentences. It is said about you that a left-wing website, your parliamentary activities, from last week, but also today, is completely appropriate -:. What is unbearable in the parliamentary opposition is that this is all just a game for them. Pampered kids playing politicians and having fun. I'm asking you to take the education issue seriously, take seriously the teacher's wage increase. This is also the most important issue of today's debate. We have told you here what plans we have, but in order for these to be implemented as soon as possible, you should also be involved, and in Brussels you should stop interfering with the translation of Hungarian development resources into educators' wages. You have a few more minutes, please live with this, and here you will solemnly accept that the politics of the Hungarian left will take a 180-degree turn in this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-269	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Group of the Fidesz Group will address Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-02-270	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the Hungarian Parliament there is such a customary right that, when a debate day begins, we usually thank the initiators for initiating the debate on the subject. I think we have to overlook this now, because Janus-face is the opposition, they have a hypocrite attitude to this debate and to the subject. [[Szabó Timea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honestly, fellow Members, how could it be believed, for example, of Gergely Arató, Gy. About Erzsébet Németh, Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Hiller, Ágnes Vadai or László Varju, that they are interested in the living conditions of teachers in any way? How could it be believed, for example, when the Gyurcsány government presented a bill in July 2008, I have this proposal in my hand, and its closing provisions include the then pro-government representatives, Gergely Arató, Gy. Did Erzsébet Németh put in an amendment pass that resulted in the cancellation of the 13th month's salary for teachers? [[Gergely Harvestó: Talk about a 50 percent wage increase!]] This proposal was extremely cynical, by the way. As a matter of fact, they added that the 13th month's salary, the wage, is a comparative advantage for working in the public sector, and not a salary for the recognition of the work carried out. And, by the way, the government, the Gyurcsány government, was forced to take decisive steps to balance public finances. Period, period, period, period, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right! Why didn't you give it back?]] So how can we believe these congressmen to have the heart of educators? [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Or, dear Ágnes Kunhalmi, Gergely Arató and their fellow Members, fellow factions, you are really interested in the future of children. [[Gergely Harvester: Yes! That was an easy question.]] when, for example, many of my fellow Members have said here, on average, the price of textbooks has been increased by 70 percent in your government? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Textbook Support!]] So it didn't matter how children's living conditions were, by the way? I'm sure it's embarrassing and uncomfortable to hear them back, but these are facts, and these questions arise from us. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're not telling the truth!]] As well as how sincere your initiative is about this debate today. But how can we believe that this is an honest initiative and that they are interested in the education system or the future of children when, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the National Book Publisher has been privatized? My fellow Members from Fideszes, KDNP, also said that this privatisation took place with a very good offer of HUF 4.2 billion for the National Book Publisher, but this offer was not accepted, but one of the business partners of the then Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány received it for HUF 3.2 billion. The state has been able to buy this back ever since. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, we have long considered how many laws have been amended, how many measures have been taken that have put education in a much more difficult position, made the living conditions of children worse, and especially the existence of teachers. Allow me to recall that when Róbert Zsigó, Deputy Group Leader, said in the lead vocal round that 15,000 teachers had been dismissed during the Gyurcsány government, I saw that the chin of the younger, first-generation opposition representatives had fallen, were shocked, and suddenly they didn't want to believe that the good Lord our opposition allies had sent 15,000 teachers on the street? [[Eszter Vitalos: Yes!]] Let me just say that not knowing doesn't relieve you of your responsibilities. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: Oh, my God!]] Here it has been said several times that your ally has sent 15,000 educators to the streets. This concerns all the allied parties, and they need to know, as well as about what they were also surprised to learn that 381 were lost. This is also a big number, and there shouldn't be any end to education at all. It wasn't during the Orbán governments that this was typical, it was during your time that educational sites ceased. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that I am amazed that the Democratic Coalition has chosen a leading speaker for today's debate on the future of our children, in the person of Mr Balázs Barkóczi, [[Bence Rétvári: Where is he? Where'd he go?]] who's been convicted legally. To make the facts very clear, you know what he was convicted of. [[He's looking at his notes.]] gang-busting and home invasion. That's what the Criminal Code says. [[Bence Rétvári: Armed!]] In this, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition was finally condemned. By the way, they call what has been done there in practice a Pestian woman-beater, a female-beater. [[Eszter Vitalos: Shadow Minister of Education! Bence Rétvári: He's the role model!]] So that's what the future of children is worth to them. [[Bence Rétvári: Left-wing role model!]] , its safety, the existence of the pedagogical field. Ladies and gentlemen, Several people have told me, but I would also like to reiterate that in the time of the Gyurcsánys, you wanted to introduce the tuition in higher education. [[Bence Rétvári: It was introduced!]] This plan was prevented by the Hungarian people taking the trouble, going to a referendum and voting against it, so you failed to introduce the tuition fee. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me also thank the teachers for their decent work and for teaching and educating our children day by day. Let me thank you specifically for the work of educators who provided education and cared for our children during the pedagogical strike. Allow me to end by thanking the retired teachers who have spent their whole lives working their whole lives to educate and care for future generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-271	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of the MSZP Group, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor. [[19.20]]
u2022-11-02-272	[[The congressman's mic won't say.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, When I put the microphone on, I'll keep going. [[It's happening.]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In 2010, you have made a radical change in the Hungarian education system: you have taken schools away from the local authorities with the aim of making them more successful, more effective and better public education. By centralising schools, setting up the KLIK, they undertook to maintain the institutions [[Bence Rétvári: There is no Klik...]] , providing the necessary tools and creating the right conditions for teachers. Well, let's face it, it didn't quite work out. I'm just thinking about the giga center, the KLIK, which failed in three years, leaving a significant debt behind. In 2011, the new Public Education Act was adopted, of which 1. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 begins as follows:. Public education is a public service, which creates the conditions for the long-term development of Hungarian society in the interest of the growing generation, and whose general framework and guarantees are provided by the state. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. You have broken your own law: with the threat of teachers, the humiliatingly low salaries, the slamming of professional freedom, the lack of necessary infrastructure, they have destroyed the Hungarian education system in 12 years, no matter how much they are trying to protect it now. The same law also states: "The whole of public education is determined by knowledge, justice, order, freedom, equity, moral and spiritual values of solidarity, equal treatment and education for sustainable development and healthy lifestyles. What nice words are those, eh, fellow Members? And how far are we from what's going on in this country today? Teachers' salaries have been humiliatingly low for years, while the population is plagued by unprecedented inflation and unprecedented growth. They talk about fairness, solidarity and sustainable development, while today the wages of graduates are lower than those of skilled workers, not hurting honest workers. Where is justice and freedom when teachers who protest for decent working conditions are threatened or humiliated? Do you adopt laws to respect the rights of others while firing those who dare to protest because of your failed education policy? Continuing with the 2011 Education Act, your main goal is to prevent social disruption and talent management with the tools of education and education. What noble goals are these, we might say, but I ask you: how do you intend to achieve it when more than 15,000 teachers and teachers are missing from the Hungarian education and education system? How do you intend to achieve this if all over Europe Hungarian teachers are most overwhelmed, coupled with their earning the least in the European Union? It must be said that the policy of the past 12 years, based on centralization, has caused a serious crisis in the Hungarian education system. The result is that there are tens of thousands of protests, live chains and protests on the street; in Szeged there was one, from Main Square to Dugonics Square, to the university. Thousands of people moved, standing up to teachers, parents, students against threats, blackmails, firings, and standing up for themselves, thanks to them. Let's draw a scale. Whether it's KLIK or Klebelsberg Center, it's getting worse every year, and now it's untenable. Teachers' freedom is being increasingly limited, while their salary is being reduced. We spent a lot of money on the school in Szeged, because our children go there, but the situation in many other cities and settlements is not so good, the Hungarian education system is plagued by crumbling plaster, tumultuous roofs, tumultuous walls, continuous lack of tools and teachers. Thirteen percent of the classes are held by teachers with inadequate qualifications, singing teachers, such as chemistry classes, or physical education teachers, history lessons. No wonder there are fewer and fewer teachers who choose the teaching career in these circumstances. The proportion of young teachers has become appallingly low, more than 40 percent of teachers are over 50 years old and only 7 percent of teachers aged 20-29 years old, and 7 percent of teachers in the entire teaching community. Not as few people have ever wanted to be teachers as they are now. And what the government is doing right now is probably hardly gonna make them feel better. According to the salary increase that has now been put in place, the wages of Hungarian teachers, in terms of inflation, would result in only 6 percent real wage increases in a five-year perspective, and the government is also linking this to EU support. Mr Secretary of State of Rétvár, we are all interested here because you said that someone should speak in order to receive EU funds. [[Bence Rétvári: And why did you stop him?]] All opposition representatives are interested in receiving EU funds, and we will be working for this, and you just promise me that you will spend the resources on what we get and not on giving them to friends and buddies. [[Bence Rétvári: We'll spend it on teacher's wages... you won't vote for anything...]] By the way, I ask you: why are these funds expected of the EU for education? What government is it, Mr. Secretary of State, that does not take care of the future of children itself? What government does not provide for the success, upbringing, or teaching of the future generation on its own? [[Eszter Battalion intervenes.]] Well, I'm telling you, he's weak and incompetent, Mr. Secretary, because every state spends its own education and pays for its own teachers. I could also say that Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz are going to go to István Tiborcz, but the future of Hungarian children with the Hungarian taxpayers' money seems to want to spend less. Well, in the declining West, of course, they don't save on the future of young people, they don't save on teachers' salaries. In Germany, six times, the many attacked in Brussels four times, in neighbouring Austria five times, and even in Portugal three times as much as the wages of teachers in Hungary. They often say that, of course, living there is much more expensive. Well, thanks to the Hungarian World Champion inflation, this is no longer true, as teachers now buy for themselves almost less than here. This, please, is a disgrace and a disgrace! Pay for it, please, our teachers, not next year, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but now. And don't threaten them, don't kill them, and finally understand that they deserve more respect. And finally understand that, in addition to an immediate and fair wage increase, real professional freedom, better working conditions and less pressure for teachers should be provided; students should have quality, XXI. It is necessary to give centuries of knowledge, and it is necessary to spend more on education, because investing in education is the fruit of the future, and only this can be the key to the country's success. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-02-273	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. State Secretary Csaba Latorcai asked for the floor from the government.
u2022-11-02-274	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thought that, after Mr Retvári's speech, something would change in the opposition benches, but no, Mr Szabó continued the mantra and repeated it further than if the government did not support the salary increase of teachers. Then I would like to reiterate that the government is in favour of educators' wage increases. But then, Congressman, let us look at what the facts are and who those who support the issue of education in action and who are those who are merely in words. Because what are the facts, what are the facts? From September 2013 to 2017, we raised educators' wages in four steps, on average by 50 percent; according to OECD data, we had the highest rate of teacher wages in this period. From July 2020, despite the difficult economic situation of the corona virus pandemic, the government continued to increase the wages of teachers. As of 1 January 2022, a further 10 percent wage increase was carried out, and we had already promised that there would be another 10 percent salary increase as of 1 January 2023. [[Interview from the floors of Momentum: How much is inflation?]] In addition, we are discussing with the European Commission the possibility of making an exponential increase in teacher wages compared to those mentioned above, otherwise from the sources that Hungarian people also produce and pay to the European Union. By 2025, we would be able to reach the target of 80 percent of the average salary for teachers. According to today's forecasts, we would increase the wages of teachers by an average of 21 percent in 2023, by 25 percent in 2024 and by 30 percent in 2025. The wages of teachers in a number of disadvantaged areas would not be as high as 80% but as 90 percent of the average graduating salary. However, we very much regret that the Hungarian opposition parties and their MEPs are doing their best to ensure that no agreement is reached with the European Union and, in this way, teachers are unable to obtain a wage increase in any form. The Hungarian left, honourable Members and Members, Klára Dobrev, shadow-president, is working in the shadows to ensure that Hungary does not have access to the European Union funds that are legally due to us, that it cannot become a teacher's wage increase and that it does not become an economic development. [[19.30]] In July last year, Klára Dobrev said:. As long as the Prime Minister of Hungary is called Viktor Orbán, a penny of EU support will not come from the framework that the Orbán government can distribute. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Bence Rétvári: Outrageous!]] In July this year, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife also sent a letter to the European Parliament demanding that we continue not to receive the funds and development money we owe. On behalf of the Momentum, Katalin Cseh threatened, and I quote: If Viktor Orbán remains in government, then the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy will not be able to obtain the resources they deserve. It is clear from all of this that the opposition has one problem, and that Viktor Orbán has been elected Prime Minister of Hungary and therefore wants to punish the Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, And when it was necessary to vote on the legislative proposals needed to finally receive the money due to Hungary from Brussels, DK voted against six out of six times, the representatives of MSZP, Dialogue and Mi Hazank also did not support the proposals once out of six, and the representatives of LMP did not participate in the votes. [[Szabolcs Szabó: The Momentum, too, please.]] Momentum has failed to support all of the proposals. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] Well, that's how much the opposition is interested in educators' wage increases. Dear Parliament, It is clear, therefore, that while opposition parties use even our national holiday unscrupulously for their own political purposes, when they should have supported our agreement with the European Union by voting in favour, when they should have supported teachers' wage increases with their vote in favour, they came out of the bag and took a stand against teachers' wage increases. Shame on you! [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Dear Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his left are now trying to shorten the teachers several times. When they were on the government, they reduced teachers' wages, dismissed 15,000 teachers, closed me down, or to take into account Mr Arató's sensitivity, let's say they made 381 schools impossible, and now they're trying to prevent government intentions to increase teacher's wages, and then we'll use the term "Impossible" again. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opponents, Stop doing this and support our agreement with the European Union and support government efforts to increase teachers' wages. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Andrea Hegedüs: Plan it for the budget! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-275	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A speech from the Fidesz Group is coming from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-276	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, For us, representatives of the governing parties, the situation of teachers and education is not a party policy issue, but a very important strategic issue from the beginning, since 2010. Our goal is to create schools and educational systems where teachers, students and parents are both satisfied and comfortable. It's very important that we have these three units. Once again, teachers, students, parents, the whole pedagogical system is built on these three. Breaking this up is in no one's interest, beating a wedge between them can't be in anyone's interest, or at least if it's in someone's interest, it's not for the purposes of education, but above all, it's not for the present and future of children and students. Ladies and gentlemen, We do not see education as a political issue, from the mouths of several pro-government Members in today's debate that it should be a national matter and a national issue, we should all consider the present and future of children and the situation of education to you. I'm telling you, not only as a congressman, but as a teacher, as a teacher. I am still in contact with a very, very large number of teachers who tell me what they want, and they have asked me to translate this briefly, if I have the opportunity in this debate. Teachers don't want to be used for party policy purposes. Students do not want to either, and most of all, parents protest that their children are being used for party policy purposes. Please don't do that in the future. Teachers also say that they need peace, peace, security, moral and material respect. We agree with the teachers on this, and we're working on it, which is why we're working on it. [[Szabolcs Szabó: It just doesn't work.]] The left, you, our honourable left-wing fellow Members, are, in contrast to us, working with all the power to take advantage of the rightful protest of the teachers, so that I once again emphasize, going, so that is not a charity and a request, but that the EU funds that we have are not getting to the country [[A statement from the opposition: It doesn't happen because you stole it! Bence Rétvári: The teacher's wage increase? No kidding.]] so that there is no cover for wage increases. [[A statement from the opposition.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts. Ladies and gentlemen, It doesn't hurt to list again quickly, as a list of contents, what the policy of education you, your allies and your predecessors represented between 2002 and 2010 was, what was it, and once again, I'm going to tell you only facts: dismissals, teacher's shortage, school leaving, expensive textbooks, higher education tuition fees. These, honourable Members, are the actions of left-wing governance. In more than 381 settlements, students were deprived of the opportunity to study locally, 15 000 teachers were dismissed by facts, honourable Members, a month's total wage was taken from teachers, hundreds of billions were taken from education, and settlements were driven into a debt of 1300 billion with their education system. During their governance, the prices of textbooks increased steadily, by 68 percent in lower school, by 72 percent in upper school and by 71 percent in secondary education. The price of the textbook package for primary school children reached HUF 20,000 at that time. More expensive than high school students, 30,000 forints or more had to be paid to families. During their government, in 2004, the National Book Publisher was placed in private hands, and this was already mentioned, and the winner of the privatisation was Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partner, who obtained it for HUF 3.2 billion, while the highest bid was HUF 4.2 billion. Where's that billion forint gone? [[Bence Rétvári: Right, right?]] Ladies and gentlemen, In higher education, you tried to introduce a tuition fee, which only the wisdom of the Hungarian people could prevent in 2008 in a referendum. Let us not go aside from who, today, spoke as one of the leading speakers of the left, with very circumstantial words about the present situation of education, and forgot about the past? We are well aware of the failure and austerity of the left-wing education policy, and today he has put a man to the left-wing lead speaker, who has been convicted of corruption: Balázs Barkóczi is the shadow minister of education and culture of the Gyurcsány shadow government. According to information published in the press, Barkóczi was even confronted with the law as a MSZP representative. One of the victims, Mrs. F. S., a lady, told us in her testimony that Balázs Barkóczi broke into the courtyard of her house in Isaszeg on 3 April 2006 in a court where she threatened and beat her, a woman, and her husband. [[Bence Rétvári: Outrageous! Intercoms from the opposition. Bence Rétvári: Is he a role model? Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] [[19.40]] Unfortunately, he didn't beat her with a shadow boxing. He assaulted her with real assault. Ladies and gentlemen, We can also say that such a toilet is a towel; that, if such a shadow minister has such a shadow government, then what would be the education system that such a shadow minister would lead if he had the opportunity? [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-277	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Mr Lajos Löcsei. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-278	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, It's simply very difficult to find words to point back. You are forgetting something, my fellow Members: 12 years, with a two-thirds mandate of 12 years, all the responsibility lies with you. Congresswoman! Where's the billion forints? I ask you, where is the 1.6 billion forints that Flórian Farkas removed from the work world by the Bridge [[Bence Rétvári: It's a good thing you don't want to point back. Don't point back at me.]] which was also an education-based job. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Where is he? ! Where is she, Congresswoman? ! We'll be waiting for an answer to where he is. I am very sorry that the representatives of Heves County will not speak, I hope they will do enough, but we would also like answers to how they see it in Hatvan, Hevesen... And on October 23rd, there were hundreds of protesters in Eger for teachers and future generations. I live in Heves County in a small settlement in Tarnaörs, and in the life of a small settlement, kindergarten and school play a very important role. We're struggling with the lack of a kindergarten teacher and a teacher. We rural residents do not always have the opportunity to take our children to a well-equipped city school, and we need to get our children to school on the spot. And I am very sorry that my fellow Members are forgetting something: the first seven years of a child's life are the most important. What he learns, sees, hears, experiences will influence what kind of person he can become. And what he gets basics in kindergarten, that's what he's supposed to build on in elementary school, high school and high school. Unfortunately, today, the Hungarian school system is not capable of creating a real equal opportunities and a basic education system that could generate a secure future for our children. I would very much like to live in a country, and this debate has gone in a very wrong direction, where no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, it does not matter that you live in a small sack settlement, in a segregation or city, but I want our children to receive quality education from birth to higher education. That's what I'm fighting for, that's what I'm fighting for, and that's why we all have to fight to create a country like this. Unfortunately, you're not going to make that happen. It is therefore our responsibility, the representatives of the Momentum Movement, to create this for all of us, for our children. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum. Eszter Vitalos: God forbid!]]
u2022-11-02-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, honourable Members, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-280	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Since the title of the debate day is not only public education, but also the future of our children, allow me to start a little further away, to talk about other areas of education and to approach the topic. When we talk about vocational training, higher education and innovation in higher education, it is inevitable that we should also talk about the path we have taken so far, namely job creation, family policy and public education, because these processes are interrelated and cyclical. In order for us to have successful higher education, we need to be successful in job creation, family policy and public education. To do this, we need stable businesses, jobs, self-respecting family mothers, family fathers, prepared and dedicated educators. With regard to dedicated educators, allow us a personal story that has just happened to us. My daughter's new homeroom teacher spent this day, all Saints' day, her own free time remembering, of course, that she asked us parents to describe our children. [[Éva Scars: In his spare time!]] to see through our eyes and get to know the children who will be taught, raised and developed in the coming years, in addition to their own impressions and experiences. This commitment, I think, is honourable fellow Members. Thank you and thank you to our teachers. And I must say that it was necessary and timely that the wages of our prepared and dedicated educators should be increased in three steps, first by 21, then by 25 percent, and finally by another 30 percent as soon as possible. Appreciation cannot be a question, because thanks to the success of an effective and pioneering family policy, more and more children are born in Hungarian families, who will sooner or later be handed into the hands of our teachers, experienced teachers and teachers, because without them the above mentioned cycle is not sustainable. I therefore ask left-wing colleagues here and now not to organise protests, but to be kind to Hungary instead of obstructing them in Brussels, and thus to support the payment of EU funds for Hungarian teachers. It is important for young people coming to higher education to enter this cycle, to find a job, get married, create a home, and then have children after completing their studies. I think we can agree that if our vocational training and our higher education are successful, then this cyclical process and its parts are also successful. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are increasingly hearing more and more about the progress of Hungarian higher education institutions in international rankings, the effectiveness of model change and the outstanding international achievements of students. After students are enrolled in these institutions from public education and perform excellently worldwide, therefore, contrary to what you have been saying here for hours, it is not possible to say at systemic level that public education is wrong, because Hungarian teachers do excellent work, Hungarian children are smart, learn, and this is seen when they enter higher education. Again, thank you to the teachers for this. However, in order for the cycle to be sustainable, we must work for the results. In recent years, the government has created a million new jobs, choosing a policy of tax incentives rather than a policy of tax increases, thus ensuring the recovery of businesses and the economy. One step further: we have introduced a European and perhaps world-leading family support system that enables people to take on children and start a family in a way that can be planned in terms of financial security, as opposed to left-wing governance today. A terrible hypocrite and liar is the conduct with which you, dear left-wing Members, are now trying to deceive the Hungarians. The educational activity in the country has ceased in 381 educational places, as has already been said during your governance. During your administration, 15,000 teachers have been dismissed. During your administration, a month's full wage was taken from the teachers. We know we've seen what you think of educators. You've been on the government before, we remember. All you care about is that if there's any trouble, you can go there, you can self-indulgent, see if you can get political benefits, but we won't fall for it, and the teachers won't fall for it. In higher education they tried to introduce a tuition fee, which was strongly rejected by the Hungarian people in the referendum in 2008. In terms of higher education, we have set clear goals, developed a strategy and implemented the model change of universities, with 87 percent support from the Senate members of the institutions. The performance of Hungarian higher education is today the following. Of the 28 thousand higher education institutions around the world, 11 Hungarian universities belong to the best 5 percent, and two thirds of Hungarian students attend these institutions. 80 percent of the students enrolled can study in a state scholarship place and do not have to pay for the training. [[19.50]] In 2016, 15 per cent, 27 per cent in 17 and 30 per cent in 21 were raised in the higher education sector, and only last year we renovated 8 000 dormitory seats. More than 35 state scholarships help students in Hungary's nationally recognised higher education institutions, providing HUF 71.4 billion per year for more than 170 thousand students. On average, there is an 80 percent degree pay advantage, and within 30-60 days of obtaining the diploma, graduates can be placed in higher education. GDP-related R &amp; D expenditure reached 1.6 percent in 2020. The Hungarian R &amp; D companies increased to HUF 584 billion three times by 2020, over ten years. In 2010, there were 35,000 researchers in the country, with over 50,000 researchers in 2020. As regards vocational training, I also need to give you some important information: before 2010, the training structure increased the drop-out. The regulation was fragmented and therefore the training documents were difficult to transparent. Neither training schools nor pupils were interested in teaching or learning vocational qualifications that meet the needs of the local labour market. From 2015 we established vocational training centres. The acquisition of second vocational training has also become free of charge in adult education, thus tripled the number of adult learners. There has been a change of era and approach with the emergence of techniques, and young people can gain a marketable, practice-oriented profession in renewed vocational schools in three years. The popularity of vocational training among secondary education applicants is increasing, most of them choose the technique after the 8th grade of primary school. 34 percent of the applicants continue their studies in high school, while 62 percent continue their studies in vocational training. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that Hungary's future ability is based on this cycle, we believe in Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families, and we believe in Hungarian teachers, whether they work in public education, vocational training or higher education. Appreciate them, appreciate what we have, and continue to build the Hungarian future! For this work, we also ask the left to help not only with their voiceful speeches, but indeed, in real life, also with actions to prove that they support the issue of education. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-281	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr László Pósán, from the Fidesz Group, will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have heard about the terrible state of the Hungarian education system here in the past, I don't know how many minutes, all sorts of suggestions. Dear House, if we were to assume what we heard from András Fekete-Győr that the solar panels installed on the roof of the houses are small nuclear power plants, then we could consider the finding to be even true, but the Hungarian education system is much more complex and much wider. I think that the results that have been mentioned several times before us speak for themselves, and yet it shows that teachers are doing a good job, and that they are teaching children the knowledge that is important to them. After all, we could quote TIMSS results, PISA measurements, national competence measurements, student Olympics results, even very fast and very spectacular quality changes in higher education, which are clearly confirmed from the international rankings side, but let us also add that there are some issues, of course, and these should once again be seen as a common point in which it would be worth cooperating and it would be worth taking a common position. It's really a matter of tutoring. It is a fact and true that, as Dóra Dúró mentioned, the chorus is not favourable in the long term. It is also a fact and a fact that the pedagogical society has been significantly crushed by left-wing governance between 2002-2008, it was said that 15,000 teachers have been laid off, this number has caused a significant shortage, and it is necessary to look at the numbers which, whether you like it or not, are facts. It took a great deal of effort, but the fact is that the number of teachers in 2009-10 was 74 241 primary school, high school, I'm sorry, so it's fair to add, in 2021-22 74 481. So, despite your dismissal of 15,000 teachers, we managed to keep this number at a level in this sense, it was not easy. At the same time, however, there is much to think about in terms of the future, how and how it can be improved and made safer. In Hungary, the rate of teachers and students is somewhat better than the EU average, which does not mean, of course, that we are now sitting back in the armchair, but it is good to keep this and see it. The teacher per thousand students was 87 in 2010, 96 in 2021, and this reflects the demographic situation, which is good to be aware of again. I think it would be worthwhile to stick to the facts from the point of view of incentive schemes and of identifying the reasons. In addition to the fact that many schools have indeed ceased during the period of left-wing governance, but there was one other, I have to say, that it is a serious injury, and that is the introduction of Bologna-type training in terms of pedagogical recruitment. It was catastrophic, and before the school closings, it significantly reduced the number of teachers' replacements. There have been years when 15 people from every teaching area in Debrecen graduated from a university as big as Debrecen. It's very difficult to replace after that. So obviously a number of structural changes had to be made, and it was not by accident that teachers' training again became an undivided training, it was not by accident that we introduced the Klebelsberg Scholarship as an incentive. I note in parentheses, by the way, that you did not vote for this in Parliament, but, well, your hearts and hearts are on it. And it is no coincidence that in vocational training there is a new area of training that we call a pedagogical technique, because if we are talking about the burden of teachers, then there is an aspect of this burden that we call administrative obligations, and the pedagogical technique can promote a greater proportion and availability, for example, of pedagogical assistants, who can also be an important pillar of the given system. I would like to ask you that, at a later stage, if legislation of this nature comes before this House, the attitude should not be rejected by daffe, but should be considered and, in view of the matter, supported. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-02-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Varga Ferenc is coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-284	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me once again to draw your attention to the close link between education and catching up within the walls of this House. One thing, I hope, is that it is above debate and political sides, which is that education must be one of the pillars of catching up. I would like to list in four points what I think the government should pursue more. It is important to ensure the provision of service-specific professions at regional level, i.e. in all schools it should be possible for children to consult a psychologist, a medical educator, a logotherapist, a development educator. There is an increasing number of students with problems who need the help of these professionals, and they would be needed not only in disadvantaged regions but also at national level. However, this system should be attractive for these people, from higher education education to pay. [[20.00]] Special attention should also be paid to teachers in disadvantaged areas. Today, the wages of a beginner educator in the country are roughly HUF 200,000 net, which is basically extremely low, but if you take into account that it is not certain that the same challenges will be faced by a teacher in Budapest and a szabolcsi or a educator in Borsodi, you will also see that these teachers are not motivated to teach disadvantaged children effectively. This is precisely why we are taking the initiative to give special pay to teachers in disadvantaged areas of the country, as in their work they deal with children with special educational needs, mostly from poverty, who require much more attention than their peers, and therefore a teacher has to invest much more in teaching. This step is the basis for giving knowledge to the poorest of teachers with the best possible efficiency. We Roma have been here for hundreds of years, we fought with you during the Revolution and War of Independence in 1848, but 5-8 percent of the participants of the 1956 Revolution were Gypsies, which in those days was significantly higher than the number of Gypsies in Budapest. Roma and non-Roma look back on hundreds of years of common history here in the Carpathian Basin, and although progress has been made over the past few years, the basic curriculum contains some kind of Gypsy-related material, but I still feel that we should place greater emphasis on getting to know each other and our shared history. It should be included in the basic curriculum more specifically to describe the history and culture of Gypsy as a mandatory element in both primary and secondary school. However, learning positive historical examples is not enough. To really sense something about change, if you look around, you need to see positive examples around you. This would require, however, that the European Union funds that you have shown so many times are finally used in such a way that they are used for adult education that we do not throw out of the window as we have done in the last 12 years, and that these funds do not end up with Flórians Farkas, but would finally benefit Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-11-02-285	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Horváth László is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As they say, hope will die last, and I hope that there will be a political debate that will help us in a national matter to really develop a national consensus. The issue of education is such a national matter. We really need a national political consensus, and in order to do this, to create it, we really should clearly and openly describe the situation in which we are in. This debate today, unfortunately, doesn't take us to this point. In fact, you can't take me, because the intention itself, the intention of the founders of the political debate, didn't point in this direction. You know, I remember the perhaps first debate on education in this House in 1992. I was so lucky to be here to participate in this debate. You know, the thing is, in those difficult times, when the collapse of a totalitarian system really buried everything and a lot of people, this House was able to have a value-based debate about the education system. A question has been raised, for example, what kind of school structure should we support, and we were of the opinion that the 8+4 class system is good, that we should stand by it because it is democratic, because it points in the direction that it can moderate the premature separation of social groups, so that the elites do not separate from other classes, and that the children learn each other together. That's what the debate was about, and, you know, there were a lot less personalities and accusations. So remembering today's debate, the debate thirty years ago, we cannot be so proud. As far as Heves County is concerned, because Congressman Löcsei spoke to me about where the representatives of Heves County are. [[Bence Rétvári: Where is he? He's not here.]] In that regard, it is good to suggest a few things to your attention, and in relation to pointing back, I would like to say that what has happened once will be permanently incorporated into our present. This is the order of the world; even if we deny it, even if we deny it. And there's nothing to deny, and there's nothing to deny, because even the bad thing brought us one: experience. And this experience, this is an important thing for us. For example, regarding Heves County, as regards school maintenance, it was an important experience in 2010 that the municipalities, although doing their best for their school... because what is more important to a settlement, especially a small settlement, would be more important than his school and his doctor and kindergarten and his elders? What's more important? ! He'll do anything for her beyond his power. That is what they did, yes, before 2010, in a world where it led to their being indebted hopelessly and foreign currency. And that's a fact. With regard to Heves County, I can tell you that in 2010 we had to face the fact that we had been bankrupt for a short time, because after 12 years of socialist county government, the previous course left a debt of 6 billion, and the 6 billion-dollar debt buried in schools, dorms, nursing homes, social institutions, public collections and cultural institutions, because of the fact that everyone put in it. From what? Debt. The fact is, and that is also a fact, there is no need to start fires of joy, but it is a fact, and let us get to it fairly, it is a fact that from this situation the municipalities, many small settlements and large settlements were helped out by this government, the Orbán government. This is the case, and it is therefore wrong to set it up, and it is not fair, as Mr Sándor Szabó, notary said, that we stole it. Well, everyone would have been ruined because he did everything he could, and he did everything he could for his part. In a time of crisis, it is indeed a risk of life to allow local governments into a debt trap. So this is an important experience, and it is always appropriate to consider it in our decisions. Then another thing that Congressman Löcsei also said, I fully agree that we must work on... because what are we talking about in particular when we talk about education? What do we have to start from? The kid. It's a very important thing for the kids to have the school available and, if possible, to be as close as possible. From this point of view, it was not good that a lot of village schools closed down, broke down, went bankrupt. We have done everything we can to make them fairer for us so that small settlement schools can remain. And what I can tell you is that there are a lot of problems, obviously, but that the amount of resources that we have never seen in the last decade has come to small settlement schools is again a fact. This in itself, of course, has been renewed in their infrastructure, the buildings, the equipment, a lot of training associated with this, does not solve everything, but a huge step forward. It would be nice if they were at least fair in this and didn't sweep this off the table as if nothing had happened. Once again, I can't, there used to be a rally to wipe out the past completely, that's not gonna work. Even our own past, you don't know your own past, we don't know our own past, and we don't want to erase it. The other is that it should also be clear, because the name Gyöngyöspata was also mentioned by Congressman Löcsei. I was hoping we wouldn't have to talk about this anymore, but if you've said it before, let's get this straight again. It's not a Gypsy question, it's not a Gypsy question, it's not a Gypsy question. This is the question of the right to safety for all children, regardless of their origins or backgrounds. But I'm also sure that in a school, if there's no security, if violence is the norm in a school, then there's neither teaching nor learning. [[20.10]] A fundamental thesis of the school is that order is the soul of everything. The truth of this wisdom should not be swept off the table with the revolutionary atmosphere of the new ages. So again, the school guard was a pity to tell you that the police were invading the school, it was a shame to bother you parents with that, by the way, with foreign money, because the rolling dollars were there. So those of you who did the Bead Patans and made the name of Gyöngyöspata a curse word, they just didn't, again, came up with these rolling dollars. But it was a shame to scare him, it was a waste of hysteria, because the thing is, after years of experience, we can say no batoning, no handcuffing. We're getting ahead of ourselves, you know? And then we told you that this is not an all-powerful tool. Prevention is very important. We also said we needed them, yes, school psychologists, we need school social workers, and the thing is, their numbers are rising. We are not in an optimal position, there are very dramatic processes, unfortunately, whether we admit it or not, but the thing is that security belongs to everyone. The parent is entitled to know his child is safe, and the school warden provides a preventive presence, and experience shows that what we said was justified by life. And don't judge the schools, the hundreds of schools that asked for them. He wasn't forced on them, he was raped, he was asked. They asked for it because they thought it would help them. And now there are extra schools asking for it. The thing is, it was a shame to create a mood and hysteria about this. And one more thing that may be pointed to your attention is that there is more than just a minority. The minority is a very important socialist force, but there is also a majority, and the majority also have rights. Deviance is not always the priority, and the abnormal is not always the superior, and I say this in relation to Gyöngyöspata, that from the people from whom political interests led by political intentions, Gyöngyöspata, not recognizing their honour, the honour of the name of their settlement, whose name was made a cryoptic word, I can tell you in the name of those whom I can speak on their behalf that it was a pity, it was unfortunate. And, you know, when someone talks about this matter, it doesn't hurt to think about the equally wise statement that ignorance always increases courage and volume, and awareness always makes you more humble. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-287	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó is not here, so I cannot speak to her, so that is the end of the circle. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of Parliament. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Several of our pro-government colleagues have rightly designated the privatization of the National Book Publisher as one of the crimes of the Gyurcsány government, which was sold at a price to one of Ferenc Gyurcsány's business partners. What happened to this gentleman? It's about Ákos Erdős. After 2010, do you know this in the NER? Since I've only got two minutes, I'm not going to take a break from you public investments filling your pockets with Ákos Erdős' interests. He printed the sheets of the national consultation on immigration, the Covid vaccination cards were printed by his company, and he also printed the election ballots, and his interest printed them. [[Bence Rétvári: It's his privatized company. It's not a state printer. The president's ringing the bell.]] So instead of being accounted for by you, honourable Secretary of State, they are filling the pockets of Ferenc Gyurcsány's former business partner with billions of state investments. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But what is even more outrageous is that the same corruption was carried out in 2018. The same person's company was the beneficiary when state offices purchased printers worth HUF 2.3 billion, and this man's company purchased a printer that any of us could buy in a technical store for HUF 22,000, they were able to pay HUF 180,000 for one piece, which was 35 thousand, so they were able to pay HUF 170 thousand for one piece, and thus, by circumventing the procurement procedure, this man and his interest received HUF 2.3 billion for the period of the Orbán government. And there is another twist, because it could have done this because the National Security Committee has expressly agreed to do so in order to waive the procurement procedure in this case, and this resolution, which states this, is signed by the better President of the National Security Committee. [[It's grumpy. András Imre Jámbor: What is the answer?]]
u2022-11-02-289	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. From the KDNP Group, Mr István Hollik is next, two minutes.
u2022-11-02-290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There have been some statements here in the debate that I think we cannot leave without saying a word. Mrs Kunhalmi, I am glad you are in because you have said the following. He said that the government wants to destroy foreign language training because it can easily lead the ignorant. The amazing thing is, I didn't ask to speak about your lie about government intentions because we're used to it, because I wouldn't have asked for a word, but because you call those who don't speak a foreign language ignorant. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I said inconclusive.]] Please pay more attention to your words when speaking in the Hungarian Parliament. He spoke ignorance and ignorance; in this regard it is completely irrelevant. The fact is that he again insults millions of Hungarians. Obviously, everyone who doesn't speak a foreign language has a reason why they didn't learn that, and everyone had the opportunity. [[Noise. Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] I ask you, Congresswoman, to criticize us, but do not insult hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarians. [[Bence Rétvári: Gergely Christmas.]] The other thing is that I have to remind myself that when you cynically say that no teacher has been fired in your time and that schools have not been closed, it actually means that the following decision has been given to the local authorities operating as maintainers at the time: either you are indebted, dear government, because you take credit to run schools or close schools. That's the opportunity you gave me. So when you say that you specifically, as a government, didn't fire anyone, it's a terrible cynicism. So let's be clear, that 15,000 people, educators, who were fired at the time, were fired by you. [[Interventions on the opposition side. Ágnes Kunhalmi: Fired by the Fidesz municipalities. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you closed those schools, you made those schools impossible. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-02-291	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi is next for two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-292	Just one, but okay, thank you.
u2022-11-02-293	I'm sorry, just for a minute.
u2022-11-02-294	In 2010-11, 361 347 participated in higher education, in 2019 285 110; a sharp decrease. This will not be a knowledge-based economy, Madam State Secretary. In 2011, there were 142 600 graduates, 111 thousand in 2021; a sharp decrease. 2. If you are asking Brussels for the money, do you know that it would otherwise violate the sovereignty of Hungary? 3. András Bencsik said that monsters have invaded the field, these monsters are raising a monster generation. Are you secluded, Mr. Hollik, from this? He's your man. [[István Hollik is leaving the Chamber.]] Oh, and one more, but don't run away. By the way, in the last ten seconds: after 2006, the MSZPs fell back in the municipality, the Fidesz municipalities fired the teachers. When you received the two-thirds, you should have introduced a mixed system, not full nationalization. Thank you. [[20.20]]
u2022-11-02-295	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-296	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs State Secretary and gentlemen exactly how much money Brussels is expected for teacher's wages, taxes and contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-11-02-297	Thank you very much. Illés Boglárka is next for two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are several of us sitting here in the parliamentary horseshoe, who were high school students during the administration of Ferenc Gyurcsány. But there are also Members here, although many of them are no longer sitting here, because they did not wait for the end of the debate that they initiated, who were still at the end of their elementary school years, when Gyurcsány was also in government. They can't remember what happened then. We experienced it on our own, and we were looking for answers. We were looking for answers to why primary schools, some 400, were shut down. We also looked for answers as to why they took a month's salary from teachers. And we didn't understand why primary school textbooks cost 20,000 forints, and secondary school textbooks cost 30,000 forints when the average wage was 200,000 forints gross. You know, it's like the minimum wage they're referring to right now. We didn't understand why 15,000 teachers were put on the street overnight. We were looking for answers, and we received a statement that could hardly be called an answer. Remember? The demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not discouraged by the demonstration. Do you remember who sent this message? Minister of State for Education of the Gyurcsány Government, shadow minister of the shadow government of Gyurcsány, Gergely Arató. You support those who have implemented this policy. Even if they don't want to remember, their election posters prove that. We saw the steps that led to the solution after 2012, and we saw it, because, as Minister of State Csaba Latorcai said, since 2012, the government has raised the teachers' wages by 50 percent. He raised it during the epidemic, raised it during the economic crisis following the epidemic, and even in spite of it, and will increase it again next year, and then again and again. And we are waiting not only for EU funds, as next year's budget law covers HUF 86 billion more, of which we want to raise the wages of teachers in the vast majority. Yes, in the budget law that the left-wing, yes, you did not vote for. We would like more, of course, that we would, and I would ask that you support this, do not twitch it, and do not hinder it in the hope of party political gain. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-299	Thank you very much. Mr András Imre Jámbor, from the Dialogue, is coming at the expense of the time frame.
u2022-11-02-300	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to ask the Secretary of State of Rétvár: when you were arguing with István Hiller the other day in the hour of immediate questioning, did you not, by any chance, acknowledge that the European Union is providing support for five different programmes and not a general wage increase? Then why is it said that the European Union provides a framework for a general wage increase? You said here that hundreds of billions of forints are expected from the European Union to raise wages. Gergely Gulyás said three weeks ago that 14 percent is part of this wage increase coming from the European Union. Where's the 86 percent, why don't you give it to me now? Congresswoman Boglárka Elijah just said that the majority of HUF 86 billion will be spent on wage increases. So far, Mr Retvári has said that all of it will be spent on wage increases. You guys talk shit about this raise every week, say different things. Why can't you tell us why you can't give us this wage increase from Hungarian budgetary sources? Two hours ago, Mr Hollik said how terrible it is that we are not talking about digitalisation and the future of education. How many sentences have been said here since then about the future of education? How many sentences have they said about what they want to do with the future of Hungarian education, how many sentences have they said about what they want to do with the future of our children? I'll tell you, zero. They talked about Gyurcsány, they talked about all kinds of crimes, but they could not say a single sentence in this debate about what they would do with Hungarian education. You know, that's the problem. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-11-02-301	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the two-minute period, and in the next round of speakers there is opportunity for more. On the other hand, she asked for a two-minute window of opportunity to speak on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-302	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Congresswoman Kunhalmi, Compared to 2020, when the new recruitment system was introduced, the number of applicants increased by 9 percent per 100,000 people. Once again, Congresswoman is using the usual left-wing deception when comparing it with 2016, when it was another recruitment system, by the way. I think it lacks any professional skill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-303	Thank you very much. We're going for the next round. Congressman András Jámbor has 23 seconds. Do you want it?
u2022-11-02-304	No, I don't, thank you very much.
u2022-11-02-305	Thank you very much. Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, from Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-11-02-306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I read the title of the political debate, I thought, in good faith, that the left would like to have a constructive debate, something that Mr Horváth aimed at, which took place in 1992, and that there was a real professional debate between the walls of this House. I think that there have been real professional arguments here from the government and the right about what we want to do, about what has happened in recent years, and we have also taken into account exactly what the left-wing governments have done and what they have not done in education. In recent minutes, we have heard high positions from my fellow Members in Pósa, Horváth and Duna on a professional level, compared to which there were accusations from you, political slogans, so they have degraded this debate into a real political action. I was sad to hear that. And there could be insults that I'm asking myself. Our fellow Member Endre Tóth insulted the right-wing representatives about raising their children. Thank God I have five sons, I raised four, so I ask you to be more polite, more humble and more tactful. Okay? I think, while we're talking about education, personalism shouldn't get into this debate. Turning to the substance of the debate, I would like to reiterate once again that we recognise and support the needs of teachers. However, what left-wing parties and so-called NGOs supporting them have done in connection with the pedagogical strike is most strongly condemned. We regard it as a despicable and evil act that, driven by their self-serving and selfish political interests, they have established themselves in a situation known to everyone, to be resolved by the government. The truth is also part of what the left never tells us, of course, that parties who, when they were in power, have done the greatest and effective destruction of the past decades in the Hungarian education system. Again, it has been said several times today that more than a thousand billion forints have been withdrawn from the education system and the obligation to maintain schools has been transferred to the municipalities. With this step, 1,300 billion HUF of debt was sewed into the settlements. Of course, the consolidation of debt and the assistance of municipalities took place during the Fidesz-led government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, head of the left is a kind of XXI. Century negative Klebelsberg Kuno, who didn't build a school, but on the contrary, decommissioned and destroyed me. Before 2010, left-wing governments lost students in 381 settlements to study locally. At the end of 2008, it was the left that took a full month's wage from all public sector workers, including teachers, of course. So it wasn't a wage increase at the time, but rather a brutal wage reduction on the contrary. Not to mention, those who today are extremely concerned about the number of teachers have lost 15,000 teachers before 2010. Many of those who voted for the withdrawal at that time in the National Assembly are still members of the National Assembly. The current government understands and understands the legitimate needs of teachers and is working to find a solution in this extraordinary economic situation. We have not yet recovered from the crisis caused by the Crown Virus, and we have found ourselves in an even more serious and complex economic situation. It is therefore essential for Hungary to have access to the EU funds that it is entitled to and currently unduly withheld in order to achieve a teacher's wage increase. The left would do well to help, and in Brussels it would not work against Hungarian national interests 24 hours a day. Because while they are worried about teachers' wages at home, they are doing everything in Brussels to ensure that Hungary does not receive these funds. I also call on the left-wing parties to stop this treasonous attitude, to commit to their foreign clients, after all, to stand up for the interests of the Hungarian people. Finally, as the father of five sons, I would like to express my thanks and gratitude to all the teachers who have chosen this extremely important career as a profession and are humbly, victimously, conscientiously and in a high professional capacity. [[20.30]] My children go to Újpest public school and went to school. In my life, I have lived and studied in several countries, and based on personal experience, I can say that because of the quality of the Hungarian education system, because of the human and professional attitude and preparedness of our teachers, we have nothing to be ashamed of, we are proud of. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Addressing the situation of teachers' wages is an important task, and it should also be seen that the current government needs to resolve a matter that has been resolved in a satisfactory manner through government cycles. The government is committed to finding a solution and resolving the situation. I ask the teachers to trust us, and I ask the opposition to leave that politically motivated mood alone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-307	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to announce that the KDNP Group has given the Fidesz Group 10 minutes of its timeframe. Please amend the timeframe accordingly. A round went down, and now two-minute speeches will follow accordingly. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Stojka of the Fidesz Group. [[A statement from the opposition.]]
u2022-11-02-308	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last Friday, I was in a kindergarten where the event was about celebrating the existence of an 80 - year - old. I say this because, in today's debate, it has also been said that the pro-government, Fidesz and KDNP representatives are barely present among teachers, so I wanted to illustrate that they are claiming to be false when they say such a thing. This untruth may also arise when you experience what they say with their indiscretion, and allow me to highlight this, for while indiscretion is not a sin, it is a mistake. And when we emphasise the emergence of education as a national issue, it should indeed mean treating education as a national issue, but not just this, but also those disadvantaged talents, whose chance must also be a national issue for all of us. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But let's see what that means in the case of civil-Christian government. I would like to draw your attention to our chance-creating measures, one of which I would like to point out specifically, this is the Travel Scholarship Scheme, under which we can grant scholarships to ten thousand students a year with a budget of HUF 2.4 billion. What does that mean? Up to 20,000 forints per child. A similar scholarship system was operated by the government before 2010, but there 2500 HUF a month was paid to students. You can feel the difference, almost eight times what we think, and how we think. To my colleague in Levoča [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I just want to remind you that it's the same thing and the same thing (the president rings the bell.) the competition is available in Tarnaörs, and the students also applied from there. But I could say it's the Roma dorm. (The president bells.) system, too, just... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Not three minutes, just two! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-11-02-309	Thank you very much...
u2022-11-02-310	I'm sorry.
u2022-11-02-311	Check in later, two minutes are up.
u2022-11-02-312	Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-313	Dear Parliament, Next up is Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, out of the question.
u2022-11-02-314	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I originally pressed a button when Congressman Levočei spoke to him. I'm glad you're back, and I can respond to you, and I'm also glad that your former party president, András Fekete-Győr, is sitting behind you, because this is finally going to be a confrontation. You said that it would be necessary to have a kindergarten, a school on the spot, and how important this is. We have been on this path, honourable Member, not only have we protected local schools, but we have increased, for example, the number of preschool seats with 16,000 new seats. We also tried to increase the preschool normative, this year we gave HUF 2.8 billion in additional support, and the number of preschool seats increased from 370 thousand to 386 thousand. The Hungarian kindergarten rate is outstanding in the European Union, thanks also to compulsory kindergartening from the age of three, which, by the way, was constantly attacked by the left when we introduced it. Honourable Congressman, You said it was very important to have a kindergarten, a school in small towns. On the other hand, your former party president, your former presidential candidate, said that I think there are too many schools in Hungary at the moment, and at other times he said that there are immeasurably many schools in Hungarian: he thought that fewer schools were needed. You said it was important to have a school in small towns. You're in a party, within the Momentum. What is the opinion of the Momentum? The one that says that you don't need schooling, and you need less schooling, or do you think that you really need kindergartens and schools in small towns? Because then you are in favour of the policy that we have represented in recent years, when we have preserved it and even renovated the schools in the Hungarian village program in hundreds of places throughout the country. [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] and not the opinion of his own party president, who, contrary to this, said that the school should be taken from small settlements to larger city schools. It's also a 30-year-old [[The president's ringing the bell.]] opinion, just decide, honourable Member, whether you now share your party's opinion or share their opinion...
u2022-11-02-315	Thank you...
u2022-11-02-316	...who he criticizes. The example also shows how confused the opposition is [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Today's debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-317	Thank you very much. Two minutes, first, Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2022-11-02-318	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have listened with honor to all the comments that you could see clearly, that you have read... that you have written the panels for today's debate. You promised me [[Bence Rétvári: Who was it?! Who wrote it?! Who wrote it?!]] You promised me in this debate that we would stick to the facts, and we didn't hear anything about the facts. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] There is only one question that is not answered by the government, most importantly: when and how much wage increases are offered to teachers. [[Eszter Vitalos: Everyone told me! You should've paid attention.]] And I would like to add that the Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos, said that today in Hungary, the student who comes out of the university comes out with an 80% salary. You're planning to raise your salary so that this 80-percent wage advantage will appear on your teacher's salary, aren't you? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-11-02-319	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman István Hollik!
u2022-11-02-320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suggest to my fellow Member, that if you are to make criticism, at least pay attention. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I really started by talking about substantive challenges in terms of public education, such as digitalisation, but you could also hear Secretary Maruzsa and Minister of State Rétvári talking about how digitalisation appeared in the public education system. [[Bence Rétvári: Exactly!]] [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I really started by talking about substantive challenges in terms of public education, such as digitalisation, but you could also hear Secretary Maruzsa and Minister of State Rétvári talking about how digitalization appeared in the public education system (Bence Rétvári: Exactly!) (Bence Rétvári: That's right!) I've been mentioned by the Secretary of State. So, if you'll just listen to me and make a review out of this by listening to the debate. On the other hand, I saw that we have been sitting here for four and a half hours now, and we have seen so much from you in the view of the opposition that there are all kinds of lies, to put it milder: we have heard criticisms and, beyond that, what we should be doing, nothing. [[Szabolcs Szabó: We talked about this! That's what we talked about!]] I wrote it down for myself. It took half a sentence of you. Modern European public education, what they mean by that, has not said a word. [[Eva Scars intervenes.]] CHAPTER XXI 100th-century public education has not been explained at all. [[Ferenc Gelencsér intervenes.]] Free public education as to what they meant, they didn't express it. We've been sitting here for four and a half hours, but you haven't said one word about what you think public education should look like. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: That's not true! Szabolcs Szabó: You weren't listening, my friend!]] That's thoughtful, I guess. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-321	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Károly Panczél, Member Fidesz.
u2022-11-02-322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary of State! I'm an old biker, unfortunately. [[Defiance.]] , I worked in primary school as a geography-history major teacher before and after the change of regime, and I managed to live a lot of things, the world of pre-regime education; this is the time that the younger people could learn that it was a textbook, and about a few days apart in Hungary the children studied the brave of János Petőfi, or even from history the anti-Turkish struggles of Hunyadi, there was school supervision; then there was a change of regime, and then, in fact, there was no external control and evaluation, reforms, permanent reforms in education, and then there were teachers and curricula. [[20.40]] So there was a problem then, and yet there was never the concept of a teacher providing sufficient services, because in school it was always the good and the good and the good, and they always sought to provide the best services, education and education, and I think it is no different today anyway. It is also thanks to teachers today for not trying to provide sufficient services, but for the best education and education. In particular, thanks must also be given for the recent years, because Covid has completely upset our lives, families, children, schools, institutions and educators, and yet everyone has done their job. Dear House, I was a member of the Education Committee for 16 years, eight on the pro-government side, eight on the opposition. I remember very much the time that Ferenc Gelencsér missed when he was a minister of education. I would like to say, Congressman, although it has been said here this evening that during the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments he has been several times, for several cycles Hungarian Minister Bálint or István Hiller, and Gergely Arató has been State Secretary of the Ministry of Education for several cycles. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Today, Shadow Minister. This is the period when the number of public and municipal kindergartens and schools decreased by 616. It is important to say this because among today's authors there are those during which these events took place, and 10 percent of the entire institutional network was affected by this, 90,000 children. In 2006, the amendment of the Public Education Act was actually about how to eliminate schools in villages and small towns. In 381 settlements the possibility of local learning was withdrawn from Hungarian children. They closed 283 kindergartens, we didn't even talk about it tonight, 1190 kindergarten teachers were on the street, their jobs stopped, and 14,000 teachers were laid off. The vote was taken on 10 December 2008 when the 13th month wage was taken. Gergely Arató, István Hiller, Gy. They were Erzsébet Németh, Zsolt Molnár, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who voted for it. We have to point back and remind them, we are not talking about János Veres, who has not been here in the Hungarian Parliament for cycles, because these characters are still here. [[Eszter Vitalos: And they have a shadow government!]] and the authors of today's debate. The student travel discount was reduced at the time, the kindergarten, kindergarten meals paid off, the university tuition fee was decided, the National Book Publisher was privatized [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Rogán works well! Everyone says the same three sentences, that's responsible intellectual behavior!]] , immediately 20,000 forints became a textbook package, while today it is all free and 13 billion are included in the budget for free textbook supply. I would like to speak about the role of the state in public education and public education, as we remember that period, and in general it is the duty of the State to maintain public education and public education. This has always been the case, even at the time when this was handed over to the municipalities. I remember, back in the Antall administration, when the 100 percent funding was given, and then under the Horns, there was a regulation that 80 percent of the total cost before two years was, well, normative. Then Zoltán Pokorni came to make this 90 percent. We know that this was obviously never enough, depending on the number of children, that it was enough for 50, 60, or 70 percent. Until, if we point back, during Gyurcsány, Bajnai, when Gergely Arató was the State Secretary, this mandatory element was removed from there, and the period that Máté Kocsis reported as mayor was one third of the normative, which is why these large school and institution closures were made. And that was the time when local tax power, local tax revenue, determined the quality of education, yes. So in this respect, centralisation was good, and it was good that under the Orbán government, anyway, the government debt of 1,300 billion was consolidated. Congressman Csárdi asked for specific numbers. The specific figures are that in 2010 the Hungarian State spent HUF 1010 billion on public education [[Antal Csárdi: That's not what I asked!]] Today, in 2023, next year's budget will increase by 1806 billion, i.e. 80%. The specific thing about wages is that a 50 percent increase has already been made between 13-17 and 10 percent a year, and now we have set the goal of reaching 80 percent of the average wage by 2025, reaching that HUF 770,000 salary in three steps. That you need the Restoration Fund for that? [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] Of course you should. There is a war next door, there is a crisis all over Europe, while Hungary also needs to protect jobs, protect and further develop the family support system, protect jobs, protect overhead and also improve health care. So these are the tasks ahead of us. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-02-323	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy for two minutes.
u2022-11-02-324	Thank you very much for the floor. On the part of the LMP, in our final speech, I would like to highlight a context that has already taken place here in the debate, which is a question of social inequalities and social situation. We have clarified the situation that the benefits and disadvantages of home in Hungary are very specific to the school progress of children. The result of the recent PISA research also states that, in addition to the existing inequalities, unfortunately, it is not possible to expect that the educational results will improve substantially, since these inequalities, social disadvantages are very, very negative and unfortunately the results will be pulled down. From this perspective, what the government generally does beyond education in various areas of social policies is very important. As we had a great debate with Mr Rétvári State Secretary on social expenditure a week ago, the HCSO finally clarified Mr State Secretary's misunderstanding that we would spend more on social assistance. No, we're spending less. [[Bence Rétvári: Only three times as much!]] 17 per cent of GDP. Even before 2010, this was far above 20 percent. Education cannot be fully accountable for the reduction of social inequalities, as education represents these inequalities. Of course, it can improve, but it needs to be done much more widely. Thank you very much. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2022-11-02-325	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári for two minutes.
u2022-11-02-326	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, You have just said that the indicator of how disadvantaged it is for a student to bring difficulties and disadvantages from home is worsening. You are disproved by the PISA measurement, honourable Member. Eurostat has already denied it, KSH has already denied it, and now a PISA measurement also disproves you, so the picture is complete, I think. The Hungarian left is always at odds with the facts. So, if you look at the most recent and previous PISA survey, every three years, there are these surveys, you can see that 26 percent of the students in the previous survey had a family background that was decisive, so the heavier, more disadvantaged family background brought a worse study result, and this 26 percent dropped to 19.1 percent. Thus, the fact that a person brings problems from home also remains at school has fallen to a noticeable degree. So the school's balancing role works much better than before. But while we're at PISA measurements, let me also deny that the results of another series of tests you've made have deteriorated or improved. PISA doesn't give us a specific number of who's going to vomit, but an interval. In order: we were in 35-47th place before reading, now we're in 29-38th place. We used to be in mathematics at 35-39, now we're on 31-37. And from natural science, we went from 34-39 to 29-34. So there is an improvement in all of these areas, too. There's been corruption before, but thank God, ever since there's a state reserve, it's been years before the effects of this go through the system, but luckily, there's been an improvement here, too. [[20.50]] I would still like to wait, everyone still has a few seconds or a few minutes, it would not be so brave to say on your part that we have heard from Secretary of State Latorcai that you have failed six times in six matches so far, six times have had the opportunity to stand in favour of the Hungarian EU grants and to stand in favour of the Hungarian teacher's wage increase, and six of them have managed to promise not to fail at the seventh match but to support the Hungarian teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-327	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary.
u2022-11-02-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable House! At the end of the debate day, it is okay for Congresswoman Kunhalmi to hear it, as she pointed back to 2006 that there were Fidesz municipalities that closed down the municipal institutions. I'd like to tell you another part. Indeed, in 2006, after the municipal elections, I was able to work in county municipalities for eight years. I would like to say to the Member woman that the county authorities did not have the opportunity to decide whether or not to maintain an institution, because local authorities either offered secondary schools and then had to take over the institutions or offered to take over the institutions. [[Sic!]] I'll recall another sentence from this situation. Mónika Lamperth was then Minister of the Interior. If you remember correctly, he said the sentence for the EU budget period starting in 2007 that we would know what we were doing, we would know what we were doing and how to bleed out the municipalities. [[Eszter Vitalos: We remember Monica!]] History has proven that Mónika Lamperth was right, and he was also right to ask 28 times in this House to change the numbers of municipal funding. Unfortunately, I have to argue with Máté Kocsis, because the funding of vocational training institutions was not 60 or 70 percent based on the norm, but 35-40 percent. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, this debate was about the future we intend for public education institutions. I think everyone here has agreed that everyone needs a wage increase, so we are asking you to support the measures that the government is taking and to do so with regard to their representatives in the EU, so that Hungary can obtain these funds. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-329	Thank you very much. The representative of the Dialogue came forward for two minutes you have 22 seconds. Congressman András Jámbor!
u2022-11-02-330	Thank you very much. It's just a simple question at the end, speaking of equal opportunities, creating a chance. At present, there is only one primary school in Józsefváros that fits among the top 100 primary schools in Budapest, this is Fazekas, which can be called a fairly elite school. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State that by the end of the term four primary schools should be this much in Józsefváros, which fits into the top 100 primary schools, since we are talking about one of the poorest districts of Budapest. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-02-331	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the KDNP will hand over five minutes of the remaining time frame for today's sitting to the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. Here's Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2022-11-02-332	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Three simple sentences. Every student has the right to a undisturbed study. Every teacher has the right to an undisturbed teaching. The rights of others must be respected. This applies, by the way, and as a responsible conservative, to the individual, to the families, to the teachers, and to the government at hand. These rights must be guaranteed and these obligations must be respected by all. May I remind you that we are based on reality. This is why we, from the opposition side, accepted the introduction of the school-guard institution, for example, because we knew that it was necessary, even if it was a firefighter, but it might be necessary, because there is indeed a situation where the standards of the primary socialization space and the standards of secondary socialization space, the standards of the school, are colliding. This is when parents and students have to realize that the school is not the enemy, and the teacher is sometimes the last chance, in fact the friend of that student to rise and catch up. Well, we've been charged here with not being able to define what modernity means, what modern education is. Yes, you can. As a conservative, I will never say or accept that we do not need lexical knowledge, because we do, to which we can anchor our knowledge, knowledge. However, we say that modern education is part of the development of problem-solving thinking, the development of social competences, and the fact is that in many cases we see a huge gap in the current education, and it is not the fault of teachers, but the fault of the system itself. Then we got the idea that we're spoiled kids who don't know what we're talking about on such an educational debate day. I would like to point out that, after the end of my term of office, I actually spent six months in a vocational school in the countryside that students call practically a gladiator, my dear Secretary of State, and that would be my question. So, we didn't really talk about what's going on in these schools. Madam Secretary, the proportion of disadvantaged students in traditional vocational schools is at least 12 times higher than in high schools. Forty-five percent of all SNI students in high school are here. This causes enormous pedagogical problems and difficulties. If you have introduced, I say, the school-guarding institution, have you made any progress in providing these institutions with social workers, mental health professionals? I would like to hear numbers in this regard. Then they say we don't know the statistics, and some unprofessional speeches. Then I ask this on behalf of my fellow Member Kunhalmi. Take a look at how, let's say, compared to 2010, the number of candidates for higher education fell by 22 percent. It's a horror! How will this turn into a 21st? Competitive Hungary of the century? I want you to look into these data. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-11-02-333	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Latorcai for two minutes.
u2022-11-02-334	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The representatives of the LMP asked me questions, but I see they couldn't wait for the answer. They said that we had not talked enough about the teacher's wage increase, so I would like to say again that from 1 January we want to provide the teachers with another 10 percent wage increase, and if we agree with the European Union, it will not be 10 percent, it will be 21 percent, and 25 percent in 24 and 30 percent in 2025. With this, we achieve 90 percent of the average graduating salary for teachers in 80 or more disadvantaged areas, and then we maintain this ratio. And that this would not be a budgetary resource, is this the European Union resource, which has been repeatedly said by opposition representatives? Yes, you can. It is only there that we should make a payment to the institutions of the European Union, which the Hungarian people have produced, and we have paid it to the European Union. There's no other way than to give it back. It's the money we deserve, and we want to use it for a teacher's wage increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Éva Sebők, Momentum.
u2022-11-02-336	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Most people probably don't know about me, but my parents met at the flat glass factory in Orosháza, and they were both trained workers. I'm a first-generation graduate. It doesn't make me any better or more people, but I've had better and more opportunities from the beginning of my adult life. The fact that my fate was so different from my parents', it took three things in particular. Parents are a superhuman sacrifice, a teaching job that my teachers gave me, and it's my work and my work. [[21.00]] Today we're talking about teaching. I graduated from high school in 2007, and today I've had several lectures, especially with KDNP politicians, about how education was in 2007. I'm telling you to tell the truth: it's tragic. My life wasn't about the system, it was about the system. I held my head because of Bálint Magyar, I protested against the tuition, but you put on steroids all the problems that existed at the time. I had nine classes a day when I was 14, but I had one every two weeks. My parents had to take special classes to make up for the lack of public education, but these special classes concerned the fields of mathematics and English. A middle-class family like mine couldn't get away with it today. I am asking you not to point out before 2010 because the same problems are being maintained and even further stimulated. It is also a problem, and our proposal for a decision covers it, and we have talked about it, not only today, but in the last five years, countless times, the number of hours that affect students and teachers, the special class that needs to be replaced by the shortcomings of public education. Here, I would like to draw the attention of Mrs. Vitalis to the fact that family-friendly governance would be part of the fact that the evenings of middle-class families should not be filled with carrying one child to such a special class, the other for a special class, and the family harmony and family reunion will fall apart, because the time for families will go to such logistics. This is not a family-friendly country, at least not in any way for middle-class families. Understand that the system you have built is no different from the system before 2010, in exchange for much worse. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-11-02-337	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Peter James.
u2022-11-02-338	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! When you and Comrade Maruzsa systematically beat up education, then we really have to ask you a question: what is the purpose, why are you doing this? The answer we obviously know is that you want an obedient country, a country that doesn't think, but tolerates it. In your ideal education system, the child goes to school at 8:00 a.m., sits there until 4:00 p.m., receives the outdated curriculum all day, goes home in the afternoon, prepares for the next day, sleeps and lies dead. This kid's done the 12-hour shift. In your Hungary, this is about what will happen in the capital: a 12-hour shift next to the line, where the only thing you really need to know is to endure. Pour it, Hungarian! and the Hungarian will tolerate it. This is not the purpose of education in my Hungary. In my Hungary, the purpose of education is to teach children to think, solve problems, work in groups, join forces, mister! To recognize when a government is trying to trick us. You need a paid teacher, you need a modern curriculum, you need a heated classroom. None of them. Why not? Because the biggest opponent of the Orbán regime is the thinking man, who cannot be fooled with posters and propaganda. That's the thing. That's why they're beating up education. Let us say, fellow Members, that you have captured this country for the last 12 years, locked it in a cage. They put him in a cage, and with the constant debauchery, they achieved that basically your voters in the cage do not see captivity, not captivity, but security. Oh, Prime Minister at Kossuth said that there, outside the cage, the world is very dangerous in the West, there are strange creatures lurking around, Soros, Gyurcsány, LGBTQ, this, that, that, that. We're safe here in the cage. It's true we can't pay the rent anymore, we can't buy the bread, but at least we're safe. For your voters, that's enough for the students, but it's not. Students who protest for schools, teachers, the future, these students are smart, talented young people. You know, the thing is, talent doesn't tolerate being caged. Talent wants to soar, and if you can't fly at home because you won't let it fly abroad, Austria, England, Switzerland. I would like the talent of Hungarian students to soar at home. I would like Hungarian students to be able to prevail at home, but that is impossible with you. The way you treat the teachers, the way you threaten them, the arrogant way you threaten them, the way you fire them, that shows your true face, Mr. Secretary of State, Comrade Secretary of State. With you, fellow Members, there is no way out of the crisis, nor of the crisis of education, because you are the crisis itself. Therefore, the Movement in the People's Party cannot demand less than that Parliament disband itself and have a new election in Hungary. Let's get this straight in education. I'll stay with the teachers, stay with the students, stay with the people! [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks: Applause!]]
u2022-11-02-339	Thank you. I'll give the floor to Congressman Attila Stojka for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2022-11-02-340	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I began my previous speech by saying that indiscretion is not a sin, but it is a mistake, and with regard to opposition representatives' speeches, I must once again see that this error is maintained and applied. Allow me to draw your attention once again to a few things, as I have already touched on our Travel Scholarship system, which means raising educational chances for disadvantaged children, and in this context not only students will receive scholarships, but also mentor teachers, not less than 4061 people who provide mentoring for children. Their wages could amount to 55,000 forints a month. The added value is indeed what you are mentioning, and I have to say to you that the post-2010 government has dealt with this as a priority, which is why it was outstanding that teachers teaching disadvantaged children can receive a wage supplement. As the betterman, Mr Ferenc Varga, has already made various proposals, allow me to respond briefly. These proposals have already been partially implemented, since if they concern only the education of Roma culture and history according to the National Basic School, they have been introduced and implemented by this government since 2015. Finally, let me thank the teachers and the people who work in pedagogical work for the sacrifice they have shown and provided for our children in recent years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-02-341	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an applicant; the political debate is closed. The authors indicated that two speakers had presented the closing statement within a total of 20 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anna Russian. [[For signal:]] No? Then it's for Congressman Endre Tóth. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-11-02-342	Thank you very much for the floor. It's been a long debate day. There were few of us who sat through this. Respect for those who did this. After such a long day of debate, I think we need to learn the lessons of what the results of this debate have been for us. Even if it wasn't much, I'd like to highlight a few to start with the positive. One of these is that the representatives of the government have now recognised it, and in this perhaps there has been a consensus throughout Parliament that teachers' salaries are low, and indeed they need to be raised, and not only a small but also a drastic increase. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here, especially on the government side, to the fact that I do not call it an increase if inflation is 20% per year and the government offers a 10% increase to teachers. That's a 10% wage cut. So this is what the government is planning to do now, unless the European Union can agree on the return of EU money. So take this into account and consider that it cannot happen again that teachers' salaries are being devalued. So the way to stop this is to do what you promised and did once, to tie the pay of teachers to the minimum wage, thereby making their wages valuable. But as soon as they took me back from this promise and betrayed the pedagogical society, inflation gradually devalued the pay of teachers, and this mistake must not be made again. If there really is a significant wage increase and I wish it to be so, then it is very important here that we make these wages valuable. [[21.10]] Our second result is that at least the representatives of the government were in the same airspace here with the education stakeholders in the gallery. They are not here now, because the house rules of our respected government only allow guests half an hour to observe the meeting, which I think is scandalous, but for at least half an hour the leaders of student organisations, the leaders of teachers' organisations for the protection of their interests, the leaders of parents' organisations were able to be here, and they were able to listen to how the debate about public education is taking place today in Parliament, what the various members of the government represent. I wish you wouldn't just meet the representatives of the government at this distance, but sit down at the table with them. [[Bence Rétvári: We've sat down several times!]] And they can tell you what they think and tell you what they want. The third result is obviously still linked to payments. They also acknowledged that the pedagogical society had grown old, and that this projected very serious prognosis: if there were not enough teachers, there would be no one to teach our children. And finally, a small, small result: there is also Zoltán Maruzsa among us, which is why he doesn't often pay his respects. [[Bence Rétvári: My former boss, he misses me!]] But this small result also draws attention to another deficiency: where is Sándor Pintér, Minister of Education? Shouldn't it be here in Parliament when the Parliament holds a debate on the subject of public education for more than four hours? Shouldn't you tell him what the government is planning to do to improve public education and solve problems? And indeed, when we say that we need a Ministry of Education, and we need a minister who really feels responsible for education, we think that we need a minister who can represent the issue of education at such a high level, and when there is a debate day, he does not hide behind other things. I don't know what Sándor Pintér's doing right now, maybe he's out with his friends. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's for sure!]] What we need is for us to have a truly responsible minister, and indeed to be at those important milestones when this society discusses the issue of public education. Some of my fellow Members have said that there has not been an adequate standard for this debate day, and that there have been shortcomings in it I can absolutely agree with that. I think there was a deficiency on each side, but I see the main deficiency there, that, on the government side, a well-educated panel collection has been read in a very repetitive way, over and over the same arguments in a literal way. [[Bence Rétvári: On the opposition side so much...]] I think we should not go to the volume here, dear fellow Members, but to the quality, and I ask that I do not know, Antal Rogán or who writes these texts, that next time at least their panel makers will distribute it among Members, that one Member will say this, another Member will say this, and not all Members will share the same arguments. [[Eszter Vitalos: I don't think you should tell us what to do.]] 'Cause I think it's unworthy of what we expect from the Parliament's standards. Obviously, we started this debate day with great hopes, because it was clear that what is most lacking in the current situation of Hungarian public education is genuine dialogue and that the government should sit down and talk to those involved in education. So our goal was to try to get the government to talk, to try to really talk in round sentences about what their plans were to solve problems that would upset public education, and to outline real solutions and plans that would satisfy or at least respond to protesters' demands. And do so by having in the room representatives of teachers, student and parent organisations who have organised a very significant wave of protests in recent months and have made demands that are widely accepted, supported and sought to normalise the situation by those involved in the profession and education. Unfortunately, we had to be disappointed, because the government continued to deny reality and, together with it, the obvious problems for everyone, that it was also obvious that its own voters wanted a change. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári himself admitted the other day that at the protest on 23 October, there were also fidesz educators. We have become accustomed to the fact that you are not interested in the opinion of opposition citizens, but I think the new one is that they no longer require the attention of their own voters, and you do not count on the requests of their voters. After all, these voters are at the protests, and they want to have a higher salary and solve those problems. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's what we want!]] Fidesz educators also earn humiliatingly little money, Fidesz families are increasingly burdened with paying extra lessons, and Fidesz students are also very overworked. My fellow members of the Government. The issue of education is not a party policy issue, but a common national issue. We often say this, but it would also be good to live on this national issue. That is why we have initiated this debate day, in case you realize that, and we can finally have a constructive dialogue. Unfortunately, on the whole, we can say that this has not worked out, because you have once again fought a fictional enemy, pointed back to 12 years ago and put your own responsibilities on Brussels. [[Bence Rétvári: To you, not Brussels!]] Also, it's not surprising that they were magical with statistics. I think, when it comes to statistics, [[Bence Rétvári: Magician!]] then let's pick up a few more because I sometimes felt that they were throwing data out of reach. [[Bence Rétvári: Shocking!]] And they find the number pair that's pointing up, and they're working on the data that's just as important as how many plum dumplings they make at school cafets. Sometimes I even get the feeling that the government and the secretary of state are looking the other way, and the upward trends are actually pointing down, but they're not holding the paper properly. Let's look at some important statistics, because I think that the most important indicators in education are those that show the output statistics, with what degree and knowledge students leave, how much they can use the knowledge they have acquired in Hungarian schools. Let us then look at the development of early school leaving, which is one of the most serious crimes of the past 12 years, as this was an indicator in which Hungary has actually beaten the European average. In 2010, only 10.8 percent were early school leavers, and the same figure increased to 12 percent by 2021, while in Europe it continued to decrease. So Hungary was able to spoil a positive result and, in contrast to European trends, to increase the proportion of early school leavers. This has also been said in the debate that this is not just a statistic, but it is the fate of tens of thousands of students. We do not need to go too far to confirm this: your former school politician, Zoltán Pokorni, said on a forum that tens of thousands of students have gone to school in the last decade and understood that these students are not able to complete themselves, because you have driven them to the horror of early school leaving with 16 years of education and further measures, such as debauching vocational training. But let's take a look at PISA, because we've talked about it a lot here too. I think that this is worth addressing in its proper importance, because this is the international standard, which really makes public education in different countries comparable, and really measures what I think we expect from public education, how students can later apply the knowledge they acquire in the school bench. If you look at this, you regularly refer to the TIMSS measurement, but the TIMSS actually measures how well the student knows how to apply it, but doesn't measure how well he can apply it. PISA measures that, and if we look at the results, we see that in 2009 Hungarian students had a score of 494 points, in 2018, 476 points; in mathematics they dropped from 490 to 481 points, and from science to 503 points to 481 points. So the score of Hungarian students has deteriorated in each area of competence [[Bence Rétvári: Just like the PISA average!]] and this shows that this change that you have made has put the Hungarian students' ability in a negative direction. [[Bence Rétvári: And why did the PISA average deteriorate?]] To apply the knowledge they acquire in Hungarian schools. If we look at where we were with these numbers in the international rankings compared to other countries, we see that this was an average result in 2009. [[21.20]] Hungarian education was not so high-quality at the time, and we share many of their criticisms about the system before 2010, but I think that at that time the level of competence of Hungarian students reached the average level, while in 2018, at the time of the last PISA survey, this was already significantly below the average. So you drove the performance of Hungarian students into a slippage, bringing a break in Hungarian public education. If you look at what is also a very important figure as to how the proportion of poor performers is developing, you can see that according to the PISA survey, the percentage of those who have actually performed at the weakest level in the year 2009 rose from 18 percent in 2009 to 25 percent in 2018. It's a huge number. To think, one in four Hungarian students who participated in this measurement does not understand what they read. This is very serious, and this number has also increased significantly, which is also a serious failure of your governance, as these students later, out of the school board, cannot further train themselves, can not learn, therefore, the XXI. In the 20th century's labour market, where it is very important for a student to be able to train himself to learn new professions, they will not be able to fit in permanently. Another huge problem is the drastic decline in the number of teachers' students, which perfectly shows the popularity of the field. In 2016, more than 20,000 applied for such courses, but in 2022 the number of teachers' students fell to less than 12,000, almost halving. This is a huge reduction, my fellow Members, and it shows that applicants do vote with their feet, and they know exactly what existential conditions they are being received by teachers, and that is why, as often as they have affinity for the field, they do not choose this career, because they are dissuaded by their families, they are dissuaded by their loved ones by not being able to make a living from this profession. Here I would refer to my fellow Member, Dóra Dúró, who gave some wise thoughts about the fact that there are different statistics on both sides, and a single voter who watches this debate I do not know how many people followed him in full, who watched it, may not know which side to believe. I advise these voters to believe the reality they live. Think of the reality you've lived. What is the reality of life? I think, for example, that this picture that we can look at together [[He's showing me a sheet of paper.]] and which shows the teaching faculty of Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc. The picture perfectly depicts what the reality is and what we see in the system of Hungarian education, what the age composition of the educator's choir is. Nearly half of the teachers are recently measured over 50 years old, which is very worrying, while only 5 percent are under 30 years old. This is a very unfavourable age composition, and if we go on like this, with such low numbers of applicants, then simply public education will not be able to maintain itself at this level, or there will be no teachers, or schools will be forced to hire people who do not have a degree or will be replaced in an infinite number. This certainly destroys the quality of education. Who's gonna teach me tomorrow? You have the right to be asked by the teachers' union and protestors. You have to answer that because you can't keep pointing back to the times 12 years ago. Not even because everyone is responsible for their own actions, and 12 years is enough, even in education, to produce the fruitage of the work. In education, it takes longer to see the results, but 12 years is enough not to point back at previous governments. If you think about it, there are already students in your education system who have graduated from your education system. Their achievements are solely your government's responsibility. I feel a little bit like when they talk about it, and there's already an abnormal level of ringing, the pre-2010 pointing out that it's like a car thief who if he was caught and prosecuted, he claims he didn't have a nursery, and he didn't get matchboxes from his father, so he committed the carjacking. You, too, are fleeing into an excuse, making excuses, and trying to cover up your own performance by what problems they were, what mistakes have been made in pre-2010 times. I ask you not to do this, to take responsibility, and to prove with your own actions that you are committed to education, because education is a national competence, and you have had 12 years to establish a decent wage level. By the way, the 50 percent increase would be about 300 billion forints, and for example, you have recently spent 350 billion forints on the purchase of Vodafone, as well as an additional massive hundreds of billions on national consultation, government propaganda or the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. But we also see that there is still money in the system of public education itself, but not in good use. For example, we can think of the fact that the district leaders received millions of rewards at the end of the previous year, while teachers received two bejgli or less. I think this is a very unfair motivational reward. I know you've been given a considerable reward, Mr. Secretary of State, but I think that teachers should be rewarded for their performance and not just a reward, but a decent salary. You are talking about the fact that, at the beginning, Mr Retvári, Minister of State, also said very true sentences when he said that actions matter, not words. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Actions matter. I'm asking you to stick to this, and when you promise to raise your wages, you know that it doesn't mean anything to teachers, they've been promised enough to flush it all down the toilet. They want action, they want a wage to arrive on their account after which they are not in need at the end of the month and can pay their bills. I ask that the actions speak of you, and do not hide with any false reasons, but do what the protesters and the people who are committed to education want. There's money in the system, there's money in the budget, it just seems like you don't have enough will to give it to the teachers for the time being. If you are no longer willing to sit down with the people involved in education and the civilians organizing the protest, we have done so with the Momentum faction, and we have submitted their demands in the form of a decision-making proposal! It's an address. We have summarized these in nine points, and I would also like to ask my fellow government and opposition Members to support the debate and support the demands when this comes before the parliamentary commission. I'd like to read it quickly, because that's the most important thing, that's the point. 1. A meaningful and public dialogue on the renewal of education, let the government finally sit down with the stakeholders and set up a public education conciliation forum. 2. Appreciate the teachers. Stop discrediting teachers, intimidation of educational actors, and return fired or replaced teachers immediately! 3. Interesting strike rights for educators! 4. Responsible, competent education management, independent Ministry of Education, transformation of the school district system! [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] 5. Less pressure for students and educators! 6. A chance to create quality education and education for everyone from kindergarten to university! 7. Competitive and valuable wages for education workers! 8. Quality, XXI. 100th century environment for learning and teaching, education, school renovation program! [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Finally: professional freedom and support in education, modern national basic curriculum, free textbook selection! These are what the Hungarian nation wants from you.
u2022-11-02-343	Thank you very much.
u2022-11-02-344	I'm asking you to fulfill these demands. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-11-02-345	Dear Parliament, The government indicated that two speakers would present the closing statement in a total timeframe of 20 minutes. First, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári.
u2022-11-02-346	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, who are here at the end of the debate! We can see that the representatives of the Hungarian left did not take the debate day themselves seriously, as most Members came in, said their speeches and went out, and many did not listen to the reaction they had given. There are rather toothy benches here for the initiative of left-wing parties towards the end of the debate. We've been here all along with my fellow State Secretary, many speakers from the Fidesz-KDNP faction, but I see that this was not so important to you. [[21.30]] The other thing that shows that they did not actually take this debate day seriously: my fellow Members, on an educational debate day, played stadium or Lőrinc Mészáros several times. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Like, say, the National Basics, the Graduate or the Science Department. Can we chuckle, laugh at this, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, but did they really think that they were arguing about education when you, the proponents of the debate, preferred to play stadiums rather than having a substantive debate about schools? For my part, I have counted it, raised 35 content issues in the Expo, and Minister Maruzsa has at least the same amount. And one of these things is that they weren't paying attention to him, but that's why there was no reaction. They often said that this was not said either, but it was not said because you did not listen to what the others said, you just came in, you told us the usual stadiuming, the Mészáros Lőrinc-ing, the national consultation, and then the same conclusion was deducted during the debate on any bill. It is a very disappointing debate, ladies and gentlemen, because you have not dared to say that if our European Union resources, including the Hungarian teacher's wage increase, are placed before your MEPs and politicians in Brussels, they will take the liberty of finally turning 180 degrees, and they will finally support them. They didn't take this. In English, the hundreds of billions of forints that we would like to use for a teacher's wage increase will be trashed in the same way as they used to. [[James Peter: Don't steal, and then the money will come! Cut!]] That was the other one. It is very good that in the language of love Congressman James also [[Defiance.]] he whispered his opinion with solidarity, as this was said more than once that Hungary should not receive an EU source because Fidesz is stealing it. [[Interventions from the opposition: That is true! That's the fact! Eszter Vital: Whose fact is this, yours? The president's ringing the bell.]] And they're nodding now. So what we're talking about is that we want to provide teachers with hundreds of billions of forints of teachers' wages, and you say no, because Fidesz steals them. But they're going to explain to me conceptually, if that money comes in and goes straight to the teachers' account, then where does Fidesz steal it? So what comes on the wages of teachers, we wrote down in our own development plan, the EFOP Plus program, that we're going to use this for a teacher's wage increase, obviously it's pretty clear and clear, so who would steal it? How can this be conceptually done? You really just want to make a political advantage out of making teachers' dissatisfaction as much as possible, and that's why it's preventing the transfer of these resources. Their second argument was to avoid EU money and to prevent EU funds from arriving in Brussels to raise teachers' wages in order to cover the teacher's wage increase from budgetary sources. What's the point? If you could explain to me why this is good. Is it better for educators if the whole increase comes from a budget? It's part of it now. Here András Jámbor was lost in the realm of billions. So the HUF 86 billion that we provide as a surplus in the next year's budget, most of this is indeed HUF 70 billion in scale, and this would be a 10% wage increase. And we would like to multiply this in the coming years, so that next year it will be 21 per cent, 25 per cent in 24 and 29 per cent in 25, so that the average teacher wage will reach 777,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking here about an EU agreement, but it is a euphemism, because we do not actually have to agree with the European Commission. They need to be formally agreed with, but the European Commission's arguments are not invented by the European Commission; you are taking them there. We should have agreed here today, because we are aware that we are sending our own arguments clearly to the Commission, and the answers are not born from the Commission's bureaucrats, but from your Members of the European Parliament. That is why this debate day would have been an historic opportunity for you, who are writing to us on behalf of the European Commission, because we know that it comes from you, and even admitted it, I believe that one of the Members of the European Parliament of the Momentum, the close relationship with Jourova, to speak daily, and the role that Momentum played in condemning Hungary. You have admitted that we may be writing in English with an e-mail address in Brussels, but you are, in fact, five meters from us, and we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're just... [[Ferenc Gelencsér: We are the Commission!]] You are only using the European Commission for this because you have not received any trust from the Hungarian people and are therefore obstructing this activity through Brussels. So, in a euphemistical way, we should have agreed with Brussels, but we should have done it here. That is why we were looking forward to this opportunity, this debate day, because if we could agree with you here, then we are sure that there will not be any problems in Brussels within weeks, because if you hadn't given them new directions to attack, they wouldn't have started on their own. Unfortunately, this historic opportunity is missing. We're disappointed. There was stadiuming, there was Lőrinc Mészáros, but you have not made a valid promise that you will not pursue the activities that you have been doing against Hungary in a rule of law robe, in such a robe for many years now. And that's disappointing for the teachers, too, but from what I can see, even for their own media, what you've been doing here for the last few hours has been a disappointment. And what has been revealed here in today's debate about the shadow minister of the left is that they want to set a role model for all Hungarian teachers and students, or not as an example, perhaps this is an exaggeration, but they want to entrust the case of Hungarian education to a person who, in fact, has been condemned by the court for gang violence, armed, that he has literally kicked the door on a woman, not alone, but with others, and has done this, my fellow Members, that this is an example of the future of Hungarian education, which is rather disappointing. You said it was terrible that if the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP spoke, they would say the same numbers for the same situations, the same facts. Well, that's an accusation that can't be made against you, no doubt, because every time you've spoken, you've always given different answers to the same questions. Some say that teachers lack 5,000 teachers; some say 15,000 teachers; some say 30,000 teachers. There were hardly two speakers who said the same number. Why should we believe one if they say another? Why should we believe each other when they say a third? You here, ladies and gentlemen, have been talking nonsense about all the data. For example, how much is the teacher's supply. We agree, too, that he is ranked fourth in the application ranking, that he could be a third teacher. But in 2010 5422 students were admitted to state scholarship training and 6729 in 22. It was 5,400, 6,700, that's more. Obviously, there may be a difference in the number of applicants, but there is an increase in the number of people who actually started as state scholarships. I really think that was outrageous for many people when it was said that those who do not have a language exam are not informed in Hungary. Most likely, Gergely Christmas would be sanctimonious in front of the TV when she heard that from Agnes Kunhalmi. So please, don't degrade, don't insult either one or the other. One can also be informed that he may not have a language exam, the majority of the population is like this. And you generally have an incredibly contempt for voters, but really, from Momentum to Peter James, there is no difference between you because you say that people are dumbed down by Fidesz, and I don't understand how you think that and how you think it is, and then you'll vote for Fidesz. So anyone who votes for Fidesz is stupid. That's it. Three million people in Hungary, according to you, are stupid, uninformed, ignorant, demented, and therefore voting for Fidesz. We don't say such things to your constituents. We say there's a disagreement between us, but we don't say that he's a second-rate citizen and he's stupid and he doesn't understand, he doesn't understand the process. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Only Fidesz voters say it. Peter James: If it isn't part of the nation, the mustache said!]] He thinks differently about the world. Here we also discussed the need for everyone to gain as much knowledge as possible and even to argue at school. This is where the textbooks were attacked when they led students to debate, but we don't think that's a problem. But in the name of the three million Fidesz-KDNP voters, I ask myself that you say that everyone here is stupid. You also have an acquaintance who voted for Fidesz-KDNP, their parents may also vote for Fidesz-KDNP, but they don't say to their parents that they're stupid because they voted for Fidesz-KDNP and not for Momentum or one of the left-wing candidates from the list of Group! So it's worth stopping. You can continue, but the election results may be the same as before. I would also like to correct the fact that we really need to increase the resources for education in GDP, and there is no debate between us, because we also need to raise the teachers' wages, and there is no debate between us. Otherwise, the difference between the European average, the EU average of 27 and Hungary, is 0.3 per cent in the cost of education in proportion to GDP. Although GDP has risen better than in European countries, let us put that aside now. We would really like to raise it, but we just want you to stop obstructing it as much as possible. I'd also like to clarify a few more details. You said that Hungary is making the country look dumb, and that is why the age limit for compulsory education is 16 years. Well, we dumb it up with countries such as Estonia, Spain, Malta, the Netherlands. We make people dumb together with the Netherlands, Sweden, Slovakia. In fact, there are more foolish countries than we do with your use of the word, where 15 years is the age limit for compulsory education. [[21.40]] For example, according to you, Austria, which is far behind, is completely on the brink of existence, is Switzerland, Slovenia, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, all of these countries thought to be demented countries, my fellow Members? Don't be ridiculous. They've been exposed to that a lot. For early school leaving, Eurostat data: 12.5 per cent in 2017 and 12 per cent in 2021. We should do better, but we did improve. Youth unemployment: how vital can students avoid, with good education and marketable education? This decreased from 26 percent to 13 percent, and youth unemployment was halved. Dialogue, negotiation. It was last month, October 4th, if I remember correctly, the last meeting, and next week, if I remember correctly, the next meeting will be on Monday. We don't sit down for years. We were finally in the same space. Congressmen, this is what the strategy round table for public education is for, so we meet continuously in various formations, trade unions, civilians, other interest groups, students, representatives of scientific life, parents and other representatives. But we'd really like to come from a teacher's opinion. We are very proud that 33,000 teachers honored us with their opinion when they sent out answers to the sent-out anonymous digital questionnaires. That's exactly why we did it, so we could start from their point of view. I was hoping that you might finish your activities here, which prevented the Hungarian teacher's wage increase. Unfortunately, you didn't give us any guarantees. However, there is no doubt that we owe the Hungarian teachers a significant increase in their wages. That is why we will work in Budapest and in Brussels. It's gonna be a two-figure raise, but let's hope it doesn't start with a one, it starts with a two. We hope that we can bring this through in Brussels. You're resisting that. Let's hope we win this battle for teachers, not you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-347	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa. You've got over seven minutes left in the 20-minute window.
u2022-11-02-348	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to respond to specific questions at the beginning. Szabó Timea had a question about why EU funds have not been spent on wages so far. The answer to that is very simple. Before 2020, there was no such possibility on the part of the European Commission. It's come up before, but it's always shut them down. There have always been only projects, various development goals, where resources could be used, and the plan of 14-20 has been implemented along the same lines. Where this has transcended, the increase in wages of health workers, where the Union's first contribution has been made to EU support under the RRF, as a result of the establishment of health stabilisation, after and during disease management. When the negotiations started with the Commission on the planning of 21-27, the important, most important request was to come up with all the projects that reflect on the country-specific recommendations; what are the challenges of Hungarian public education, which we went through. On the Commission's part, the issue of replacements, the issue of wages was considered. We indicated that this was not on the agenda because wages were never allowed to be accounted for. They promised that they would run it, cut through this issue, and that it might be possible for them to do so. The next time it was announced that it would be possible to do so, which is why it was added to the table to account for wages. It's a story from a year ago. Since then, discussions have been ongoing in this area, but earlier, when EU support was supposed to fall in on why we didn't spend it, this was the question; this is the reason, this is the story. There's no big secret in that. Congressman Jámbor had a specific question about having four top 100 schools in Józsefváros. Right, every top 100 school assumes that there are others that aren't top 100s, and a lot of criticisms have been made that just said, and that's exactly what the government has in mind, that there are big differences. I don't think it's the top 100 schools that need to be increased, and not concentrated in some settlements. Each primary school should be a good primary school, which is a good basis for further education in high school or vocational training, and it provides a good basis for future higher education. Congressman Barkóczi, when he gave his speech, the question of the average wage of a graduate or teacher came up, and he said that he did not know how much the average salary was this year. So I rephrased this as a question, and since I know the answer to that question from KSH, it's no big secret, it's 440,000 forints this year's average teacher fee. Mrs Kunhalmi had another question that I would like to respond to. He asked why education is the focal point now, in the fall. I have a political opinion on this, and that is, obviously, to look for focal points, to develop them in large systems. It could be in higher education, culture, and so on, but always the two classics that the opposition usually attacks, education and health care, because most people are affected by large systems. Since there has been a significant increase in wages in the health care sector, public education has become the obvious choice of where to be and where to find a focal point in the field of pay in a large system. By the way, it is correct to identify from the point of view that, indeed, as in health care, there is a need for a wage increase here. This is recognised by the government, and we are active in the matter, so that this can be achieved as much as possible from budgetary resources and from EU funds. It was interesting for me, by the way, for the political perspective, that the debate of politicians was always an interesting circumstance. By the way, the door is open before the proposals. My office is open, too. In previous years, it has been true that even MEPs approached me individually, not on Facebook, breaking down the door, as they say, but the door was always open, and my phone number was also open. So we can make any suggestion or reason why we don't think it's right, or if it's right, we can certainly accept it. We've had a lot of criticism, little suggestion. What has been put forward as a suggestion, I would like to say that there are a lot of things that we are doing here anyway. The proposal for a wage increase has been made. It has been said to renew the infrastructure, which we have said, by the way, what infrastructure renewal programme has been and is taking place. We've been told to renew teacher training. It has not been a year since the new legislation was drafted in this regard. It's said that there should be more educators, school psychologists. We have also increased their number in previous government cycles. He's risen from 5700 to 10,000, and there's almost twice as many school psychologists. There was also an increase in the number of staff directly assisting the educational work. The students' hours, the weight reduction, were also expressed. Just the many attacked NATs in 2020 were limiting the number of hours that could otherwise affect students, as there were no such hours before. We have also experienced that this has caused problems, as, in addition to falling student numbers, a lot of schools have competed to make themselves attractive with as many services as possible, as many hours as possible, and this has really caused additional burdens. That is precisely why we have limited this in the new regulation. So with regard to the proposals, I think that there are a number of proposals that the government is already making. It was also a criticism that there were many panels on the side of the ruling party, often similar arguments. That's what I've seen on the opposition side. At the beginning, Anna Russian even ran into the fact that she accused me of not saying anything about PISA, and then, after three minutes before I told her, she corrected herself in a welcome manner on this issue. At the end of the introductory comment, I mentioned seven programming points that we are preparing for. That was the last panel, if you can put it that way. There is certainly a lack of written speeches, but there was no reflection on them, so nothing was said throughout the entire debate. I'd like to signal. that the proposals that I have made, by the way, have been drawn from the replies of 57,000 teachers to our questionnaires. In June and September, the Ministry of Interior sought out teachers, had the opportunity to express their views on questionnaires, since it is not always the trade union that can formulate and convey the views of all teachers. We have 57,000 questionnaire replies, so we'd like to go further. We want to take into account the opinions received here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we are working in the direction that the system of public education can really get out of these difficult periods. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-02-349	Thank you, Secretary Maruzsa. Dear Parliament, Post-meeting speeches will follow, because we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Mr Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, submitted a report on what had happened at the 145th General Meeting of the Interparlamentary Union. You have the floor. [[21.50]]
u2022-11-02-350	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Secretary of State Ladies and Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, The International Union for Humanitarian Rights held its 145th General Meeting in Kigali between 10 and 15 October this year, attended by Vice-President Ágnes Vadai, who strengthened the work of the Committee on International Humanitarian Rights and the High Level Advisory Panel against Terrorism and Violent Extremism. Our delegation was accompanied by Katalin Somfainé Ádám, head of the IPU Office of the Foreign Affairs Directorate of the Parliament. Following the invitation of Rwandan legislation in 2019, the Crown Virus pandemic allowed the IPU's autumn assembly to take place in Kigali after three years of waiting. About 1100 representatives of the national parliaments of 110 countries and 25 regional parliamentary assemblies, including nearly 600 Members of Parliament, attended the event. 36 percent of the Members were women and 24 percent were under 45 years of age; 40 delegations were led by the President of the National Parliament and 38 delegations were represented by legislative vice-president. The general debate of the General Assembly dealt with gender equality and concluded with the adoption of the "Kigali" declaration. The proposal for an urgent agenda, supported by the GRULAC geopolitical group in Chile, which brings together the countries of the Latin American and Caribbean region, was entitled "Rejection of the invasion of Ukraine and subsequent annexation of certain areas of Ukraine in order to protect the territorial integrity of all states. It is worth noting that in Kigali the delegations of both Russian and Ukrainian legislation were led by the Vice-Presidents of the respective parliaments. The IPU's Standing Committee No 3 included the situation in countries with increasing international migration and all forms of human rights violations, including the eradication of State-sponsored trafficking in human beings and human rights violations. I presented the Hungarian position on illegal migration at the committee meeting, and since the text tabled and then adopted by plenary did not meet the interests of our country in many points, I made a reservation against it. The Hungarian delegation discussed the question of NATO's northern enlargement with the IPU delegations of the Nordic countries on the Finnish and Swedish initiatives. The representatives of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Iceland and Finland were given their support by the Hungarian delegation as a whole. Our delegation discussed the possibilities of bilateral cooperation with members of Rwandan-Hungarian friendly department of the Rwandan legislature and attended a tripartite, Estonian-Finnish-Hungarian meeting of delegations from Estonian-organized Finnish-speaking countries. During the 145th General Assembly of the Interparlamentary Union, our delegation invited a number of exchanges of communication and had the opportunity to do so. As a result, I have often had the opportunity to explain Hungary's attitude towards the Russian-Ukrainian war, the background of its efforts to promote responsibility and peace for Hungarians living in Transcarpathia. In the spring of 2022, the Interparlamental Union decided to set up a working group to mediate with all means between the Ukrainian and Russian parliaments in order to promote dialogue and peace. The working group consists of prominent politicians from eight countries and aims to complement the ongoing peace efforts at the level of government and the UN line at parliamentary level in order to achieve a peaceful closure of the Ukrainian war with parliamentary instruments. The working group presented the results of its visits to Kiev and Moscow and of its conciliation negotiations with a view to reconciliation mission to the general meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to thank the Rwandan Parliament for its invitation on behalf of the delegation and the successful settlement, as well as the support of the IPU staff, the valuable professional background materials provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs and the other departments for our preparation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-11-02-351	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. .. bravery, fellow Members! Mr Péter Jakab asked for an address on the agenda.
u2022-11-02-352	Thank you for the floor. When I spoke here in Parliament a few weeks ago, I asked you for something. I asked that Parliament disband itself and that there should be a new election in Hungary, because it is now clear that on 3 April, Fidesz won with a lie, reducing the rent and so on. Colleagues, it's quiet. It's quiet! In order to disband Parliament, 100 out of 199 Members need courage. The Prime Minister recently said there were 133 here, and now there's no one here? Where are they, fellow Members? ? Is there 100 brave people in this room willing to finally side with the Fides? Is there 100 brave people in this room who are more important to this country than their own chairs? Is there 100 brave people in this Parliament willing to give up their parliamentary seat in order to ask the electorate for a new election, now in possession of the truth? Fellow Members, in case you hadn't noticed, the Hungarian Government made a confession. The Hungarian government admitted that it cannot solve the crisis, they want to make a law about the fact that the solution to the crisis is not really the responsibility of the Hungarian State, but of the Hungarian taxpayer: the job, the teacher's, the nurse's, the policeman's, the small pension. Well, there's no such thing. Let me ask you, who pays taxes here: the Hungarian state pays taxes to me? Or do I pay taxes to the Hungarian state? Because if I pay taxes to the state, the Hungarian state has a dog duty to solve the crisis that he caused. Or if that doesn't work, then yes, Parliament should disband itself and make a new choice. What don't you understand? I believe, fellow Members, that you would sit here for the greasy salary until 2026, but, you know, the fact is that the Hungarian man doesn't have time to wait for 2026 because he tastes the thousand-forint bread, the 430 euros and the seven-time gas price. We have to act now, fellow Members, we have to disband Parliament now, and now we have to give the Hungarian people the opportunity to decide how to proceed. Continue the austerity, continue the increase, continue the record inflation, increase the gas price, lack of sugar, stay the Fidesz? Or would you rather have an expert government join the EU prosecutor's office, end corruption, and start a real crisis management with EU money, not the job, not the pension money, but the EU money? Be brave, fellow Members, but we, opponents, must be. Let's get our shit together, not just the People's Party Movement, not only do I have to demand a new election here, but everyone who claims to be opposition. Not only do we put it on Facebook very hard to get Orbán, get out, cancel, replace them, but let's also hit them bravely with a straight spine! If you are afraid, find another profession, and the rest of you will stand on their heels, stand on the party of the people, and make a new choice in Hungary! You can sign up with me, fellow Members. I'll wait for you. I'll stay on the side of the people.
u2022-11-02-353	Thank you very much. How much longer? Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, asked to speak after the agenda.
u2022-11-02-354	Mr President, Dear House, There is not enough talk about those who carry the Hungarian national economy on their backs in this harshly difficult situation, about Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The recent news is that in 18 minutes, the government's backup framework was run out, which, by the way, was not hidden from the fact that I wanted to support basically multi-enterprises, large companies, i.e. companies with capital strength and reserves. However, this $150 billion framework ran out in a very short period of time, and it was irritating in itself that it was already apparent from the initial communication that this framework was not as accessible to Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, but the aim could obviously be to support Hungarians in at least the same order of magnitude, who otherwise guarantee only one third of the jobs as multi-enterprises, but also two thirds of the jobs. And we also need to see that these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are brutally affected not only by the market-driven prices, but also by the weak forints, which are consciously poorly held forints, the beneficial effects of multi-enterprises can also be enjoyed. This is typically a problem for small Hungarian companies, and since 1.7 million people are left out of wage statistics, including companies with five employees, ex-cats, micro-enterprises, it can be said that they should also be in the ring for their interests. [[22.00]] That is why I urge us to state at the statutory level that the value of the Hungarian national currency is the duty of all governments to at least try to preserve the value of the Hungarian national currency, not by a ten-year phase delay, as Fidesz does, and not in such a testicle as it has tried, and to add that it is unsuccessful. In 2010, when the government changed, HUF 266 had to be paid for a euro, and Fidesz always said that he believed that the war had caused the exchange rate to run to 410 or 420. The fact is that during the first news of the possible outbreak of war, 367 forints had to be given for one euro, so more than a hundred forints had deteriorated to that point. That is why I propose that we lay down in the Fundamental Law that it should not happen, that the Hungarian forint should not be consciously destroyed, because this makes Hungarian salaries that are already humiliatingly low, savings that are still there, and the total value of the national property, including the value of the property, even more valuable. Another very important change would be that if the government made a tax change, it would be able to touch the tax system at most once a year. I'll add, I'd be happier if you only touched it in a positive direction and with a tax reduction. The inclusion of multi-enterprises in public burdens is where an exception can be made and where a rationalisation of taxes may arise; at least this is the subject of debate. However, it is clear that, rather than reaching the tax system once a year, Kata was executed in a week or two, and in a completely different case, when, by the way, they want to extend in a positive direction the exemption of those under 25. We're looking for traces of this in the tax package presented to us, but we can't see it. This appeared in government communication, and it will probably arrive in a separate package two weeks later or be arranged in a different way. But it is certain that there is no need to compete with low wages on the international market, not with a sufficiently flexible labour code, but, for example, by creating a predictable climate and, at most, once a year, by tampering with the tax system, no more than once. And while we are at it, it would also be absolutely justified that the compulsory 5 000 HUF chamber contribution should be cancelled, as the situation has been quite amazing that Hungarian entrepreneurs pay something compulsory for someone who does not represent his interests, but practically plays lakmus paper in the hallway of government communication. He tries to make a variety of announcements, looks at how the governing parties react to these Parragh announcements, and then, at the end, what they consider to be a social stimuli threshold that doesn't come true. Again, Parragh's statements show that Hungary's current government wants to continue to compete with harshly low wages in international comparison. On the other hand, we, with our published three-point package for entrepreneurs, clearly aim to favour those who carry the national economy on their backs, and these are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as opposed to multi-enterprises and foreign interests. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-02-355	Thank you very much. The home is not for sale! Or for euros? Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazánk, applied for a speech on the agenda titled.
u2022-11-02-356	Mr President, Dear House, There are few of my fellow Members left! Is home not for sale or for euros? And I do not mean that, for the sake of European Union funds, the Hungarian government accepts almost anything that the Union wants to force out of us, but that, unfortunately, our beloved country, the Hungarian land, is not protected, although the government itself has promised to do so, and that is what Viktor Orbán himself stressed in his speech in Zalaegerszeg last week. If millions of people have to leave the country, the next generation will have no homeland. We have nowhere else to run, because Hungary is nowhere else to be found. That's what we need to keep, that's what we need to protect, that's where we're going. This is something that all Hungarians have to think about, and it would be necessary to do so. Hungarian young people should be brought up in the spirit of this, but the devastating reality is that few people are raised this way, few people think so, and even fewer people do so, including the Hungarian government. Our beloved country will not protect it, it will not keep it territorially or Hungarian, so less and less of the sons of our country can thrive in their own country. If we do not change the negative processes in time, which is primarily the responsibility of the Hungarian government, then there will be nowhere to return from the desire for adventure to those scattered around the world, who cannot find Hungary anywhere else, but who will slowly return home. The problem is not small, so it is not enough in rhetoric alone, but in reality we must also protect our country from a sea of danger. And I am not talking about the war in our neighborhood, the strangling of sanctions, the energy prices that have been released, record inflation, or corruption taking even higher rates, but about the ever more frightening rise of foreigners and the resulting disinheritment. Although the government's propaganda suggests that Hungary is doing better, the reality is that our country's standard of living is not only below the EU average, but in many cases the neighbouring states are far above it. It follows that their money is worth even more here, and they are trying to invest as much as possible with us, and the Hungarians in their own country are increasingly in need of periphery and, in many cases, beyond that. We can talk about not only economic but also demographic disasters here, as there are many examples of how walking areas are being depopulated as a result of the migration of Hungarians and the expansion of foreigners. The foundation of all this is the Hungarian land, our beloved homeland, so its protection would be our priority under Article P of the Basic Law. On the other hand, we do not hear of a shameful decision about Transdanubia, where Austrian citizens living at the Austrian address precedes the real and genuine peasant local inhabitants in the exercise of the pre-emptive right, who in many cases have an exemplary life or work. An example is the area in the care of the Fairy Garden Movement, which is now about to be swallowed up. The movement was created in order to preserve Hungarian fruit trees native to the Carpathian Basin and resistant to posterity, replacing a state task as a gene bank. However, their inability to do so is not only unworthy and barbaric, but it is also against the law, as the Hungarian State assists in this infringement through the Hungarian Agricultural Chamber and the agricultural administration of the Government Office when it allows foreign citizens access to the Hungarian land purchase. Behind these economic organizations are long-term rental contracts, pocket contracts, and stromones with Hungarian citizenship equivalent to treason, but with land owned by foreigners, most professional groups agree that today there are three counties out of Hungary's territory in foreign hands, and almost one hundred percent of the goods produced from this area strengthen the foreign economy instead of the Hungarian economy. However, the Hungarian land fortune is a matter of national strategy and national security. Whoever owns the land owns the country. The Hungarian land must provide a livelihood for Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian land must produce healthy food on the table of Hungarian families, not profit for foreign farmers. Our Hungary is committed to the Hungarian land, so we will not only say it, but we will really protect it. Thank you for the floor.
u2022-11-02-357	Thank you very much. Mr Lajos Löcsei, representative of Momentum, applied for the post-meeting address entitled "Teacher Egri's Message."
u2022-11-02-358	Thank you very much. Mr President, Today was about education, so I would like to read a message from an Eger teacher as a closing point. I've been teaching biology and chemistry at the patina high school in a rural town for 31 years. My father and brother are both teachers. My father was a district trade union secretary for decades, and he also worked on a national level as a member of the national board of the Teachers' Union. He still knows, he still remembers what it was like to be a respected educator, because he received countless rewards, medals, and recognition during his career. I graduated from the same university as the Prime Minister in 1986. One of my classmates, my friend, was in your circle of friends at the time, telling legends about their views, their actions at the time. [[22.10]] I looked up to you because I liked your revolutionary new opinions and your brave stand for true affairs. So much so that when Imre Nagy's reburiation was broadcast on television in 1989, my six-month-old son and I didn't watch a story in my lap, but I watched with awe the events on the screen. I was very keen on a young man named Viktor Orbán, I watched the news about him in the media, and then, of course, when I had to, I put the Ix next to his name twice. Since then, unfortunately, a lot of water has flown down the Danube. The then Viktor Orbán is not in a thank-you relationship with his present self. The brave warrior of that time now only cares about how he can fill his own pockets, his relatives and his minions. The parliamentary decisions voted in favour show that it has become completely insensitive to the problems, demands and new demands of socially disadvantaged people or people with lower incomes. Unfortunately, educators are part of this group. In the beginning, it was very nice to say that teachers' wages would be calculated in relation to the minimum wage at all times, and then in 2013 the previous decision was crossed over by a stroke of a pen, and we left it sheep-like, and you got blood-eyes, and you paired the wage increase with a significant increase in the workload. When I started teaching at a vocational high school in 1986, we only had to keep 18 hours a week, overtime, substitutions were paid, plus jobs were rewarded. Only two years ago, I taught at the end of the Kádár era, when my team was a national VI. I got a medal, and I got a medal. In the meantime, my son was born, and we moved to a different town where I got a teaching job at the local college. Since it's my 37th academic year, I've had a lot of experience in all areas of education. I also taught eight, six and four-year high school classes, biology students, advanced faculty groups, college students, vocational high school students and skilled workers, and I was in a total of six classes, so I can tell you that I have a great deal of experience in various fields of education. I have a basis for comparison between previous years' education and the current education system. What is it that I and my colleagues resent? 1. A lack of real recognition, a lack of reward. Before 2013, there was a quality allowance, which was differentiated by school management based on competitive results and extra work; since then, there has been no. 2. Substitution doesn't count as overtime and it's not paid. The workload of teachers is divided into two parts. The number of hours required to be taught is 22-26, varies from school to school, is not uniform. I teach 24 hours, some only in 22, but the wages are the same for the same category and age group. This also creates tension among colleagues. The other part is the 26 o'clock part for 32 hours, which I'm obliged to spend at school. This is when I tutor, prepare for competition, fix a test, put together an experiment, produce an illustration material, and, of course, replace it within the framework of this. 3. Paying doesn't take into account how many students you teach. There are countries in the European Union where this is taken into account in payment. I currently have 278 students in nine study groups. Foreign language teachers who only teach half a group and four to five hours a week only deal with 70 to 80 children. It doesn't matter if I fix 80 papers a month or 278 tests a month, it doesn't matter if I close 80 or 278 children at the end of the year and semester, either on time or at work. 4. It doesn't matter how many majors you teach. There are a lot of different jobs to teach more than just one major. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-11-02-359	Thank you very much.
u2022-11-02-360	Thank you very much. [[Louis Lötcsei to András Fekete-Győr, as he handed him the papers in his hand: Five, since the...]]
u2022-11-02-361	Thank you very much, Congressman, the five minutes are over. Dear Parliament, András Fekete-Győr, a member of the Momentum, applied for a speech on the agenda titled "Teacher's Status Assessment in 10 points." You have the floor.
u2022-11-02-362	Thank you very much, I will continue what my fellow Member from Levočei started to read the Eger teacher's letter. 5. There are no extra benefits, cafeteria, clothing money, professional book support, housing support, and the rest, even though there was a time when we were given, not as much as the Members today, but at least there was. For example, every year we received 14 thousand HUF book purchase support, 16,000 HUF clothing money and 6 thousand cafetheries per month. 6. No paid leave for recharge, professional renewal. There are countries in the EU where the teacher can go on paid leave for a year to renew spiritually and methodologically. If I want to go away for a month during a school year, I have to take unpaid leave, and other colleagues can replace me from sight to blindness without getting a penny. The same applies if you have to stay out of work for several days because of family or other problems. 7. We can't choose from the most up-to-date and the most advanced textbooks that support graduation because they're not on the list of textbooks available. What's left? In secret, we make sure that we make the children despise the right textbook and prepare them from it; we worry that the parent does not make it a word, because textbooks have to be free. 8. There is too much pressure on students and it is common for a ninth grader to have 35-37 hours, especially if he is a student, since the classes are in addition to the basic classes, whether they are in the afternoon, 8 and 9 hours. It ends at 3:30, if it's an entrance, 17-18 hours before he gets home, depending on how far he lives. If you have seven hours the next day and you want to prepare for each one, only half an hour per subject, that's three and a half hours. Then there are training sessions, special classes, which are not mandatory, but they are usually more likely to do them than school requirements, because they are more interesting and informal. Because of the stress, many children are exposed to burnout. Many people have psychiatric disorders, depression, neurosis, self-esteem disorders, compulsiveness, suicide attempts, aggressive manifestations, and so on. In my own class, a kid took a handful of Frontins because he was so afraid of the test. Luckily, I noticed, and I was able to make a point. Do you think that's okay? We need help with these in schools, we need minimum school psychologists, but we don't have a social worker who is one day a week at school; he has a nice conversation with the children involved, but he can't offer real professional help. 9. We find it a very serious problem that there is no Ministry of Education and Minister for Education and that we cannot have meaningful dialogue with anyone about the problems described above. However, we do not just want to negotiate an increase in teachers' wages with those involved in the management of education. We would like all our professional problems, our proposals, to be heard in a meaningful way, to be taken on board against the lack of teachers. It is not a solution to make the strike impossible, to fire, to threaten, because it further increases the shortage of teachers and permanently violates the children's right to education. 10. Finally, foam on the cake: schools were obliged to introduce energy saving measures. In our classrooms, half the neon tubes have been twisted, so if all the lights are turned on, there's only half the brightness. Those who sit further away don't see the sign well, they keep asking me to read what I wrote on it. We're moving at a slower pace. Many children are expected to get worse because they are forced to push their eyes because of bad lighting. This increases fatigue and reduces children's comfort, they can't listen properly, they can't work in class. In my opinion, those who go to different schools, educational establishments, are able to make meaningful decisions about the real circumstances, the work done, the problems. Don't judge me until you've been in my shoes. says an old Chinese saying, but in today's Hungary, there are many self-proclaimed educational experts who judge the teachers' work, break a wand over us without knowing what is really going on between the walls of a school. Government communication also strengthens this when information far from real facts is released into the media, such as three months of summer vacations when teachers are made public enemies or teachers only demonstrate for wage increases. On behalf of my fellow educators, I challenge you. As your vocation-driven, conscientious Members or employees of the Ministry of the Interior, or the staff of the Education Secretary of State, take the liberty and effort, make your time and go to the various educational institutions, look into the eyes of those who work there. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I recommend disadvantaged regions. With respect, a 37-year-old 60-year-old teacher on the field three years before retirement...
u2022-11-02-363	Thank you...
u2022-11-02-364	... with a net salary of HUF 291,000. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-02-365	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 8 November 2022. Thank you for your work. I wish you a restful good night. The meeting's closed.
