u2022-06-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 3rd meeting of the 2nd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, András Aradszki and Bernadett Bakos will help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The 29th of June, Péter-Pál Day, which, according to tradition, was declared the day of the beginning of the harvest, the largest celebration of peasantry in 2012, by a parliamentary decision, as a memorial day for Hungarian farmers who had been destroyed during the tour. The decision condemns the cruel persecution and discrimination against the Hungarian Central Peasant during the communist dictatorship, which began in 1948 with the communist takeover. The regime at that time launched an inhuman attack on certain layers of Hungarian agricultural society. They took their land, confiscated their crops, drove them out of their homes, and rarely physically abused them from large farmers classified as kulas in the Soviet sample. Not only have the individual people been destroyed and humiliated, but the total elimination of the traditional Hungarian peasant lifestyle has also begun. The Parliamentary resolution recommends that Hungarian society regularly remember the history of the mission in a manner worthy of its history so that young generations learn the historical facts and never forget the lessons of that shameful and inhumane period. Ladies and gentlemen, Ten years ago, on the first memorial day of June 2012, Kecskemét's main square was erected a monument to the commemoration of those who had suffered the bounty mission, as in 1948, the leader of the communist regime announced the mission on this spot. On the initiative of the Reformed Youth Association of Kecskemét, a work of a local artist was born partly from public relations. At the inauguration ceremony, László Kövér, President of the Parliament, gave a speech. Since then, monuments or memorial plaques have been erected in several other settlements before these victims of communism, whose fate, beyond their own tragedy, has been permanently sealed, and their livelihood is impossible. These memorial sites and today's Memorial Day are also an opportunity not to forget XX. This barbaric and inhuman period of centuries of Hungarian history, and we can bow to the memory of the victims. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the protection of members of the pension society and of the cooperative with small children until closure. Presentation by Members Lajos Kósa, Fidesz and Judit Varga, Fidesz T/362. Number 2 available on the parliamentary IT network First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2022-06-29-1	Mr. President. Dear House, The Parliament, as a model for student cooperatives, has allowed groups in a similar legal situation, i.e. those who have a principal legal relationship and can otherwise be regarded as insured in relation to social security, to form cooperatives and work through them, of course, on a strictly voluntary basis. So the retirement cooperatives were formed in 17th. In the future, I will call pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest for the sake of simplicity, or a cooperative of those at home with a small child, which I will call a maternity cooperative for the sake of simplicity, because the vast majority of the members are mothers. A serious legislation has begun to ensure that this form of employment, which is a real Hungaricum, is fully provided to the participants, so they will receive the minimum wage allowance and cannot be provided under it; all the elements of security and guarantee have been accepted by the legislation, which actually justifies the existence of this cooperative form, which is a real Hungarian specialty. Earlier, after student cooperatives and school cooperatives already existed since 1984, they have a much earlier history than pensioners' cooperatives and maternity cooperatives in the context of bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, Parliament has introduced the solution to the regulation that school cooperatives, although the work is carried out under an entrepreneurial contract, still, when bankruptcy and liquidation takes place, their claim should not be placed in supplier debts, but, to the extent that the cooperative members have done work with a personal contribution, should be classified as a mandatory payment to employees, so that they are in fact placed first in the context of liquidation. In the event of liquidation, the liquidation costs, the cost of employees, the public debts, creditors' debts or supplier's debts in the main order of the discharge. Thus, from the supplier's debts, the student associations were brought forward, by the way, in the list of employees' claims. In fact, as a logical consequence of this, we are actually following this regulatory logic in the case of pensioners' cooperatives and maternity cooperatives, since these cooperatives have basically done work with their members' personal contributions, and it is therefore right to assign them to a claim position with wages. That is the essence of this short amendment. In consultation with the stakeholders, the Association of Public Retirement Cooperatives, the Public and the Association of Associations of Mothers, they have given their full support, so I would ask the House to support this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[8.10]]
u2022-06-29-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-29-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the table of this House, T/362 on the protection of members of the cooperative of pensioners in the public interest and those at home with young children. draft legislation, as my fellow Member Lajos Kósa has already said and heard in his expozee, is a simple and relatively transparent proposal, the main objective of which is to ensure the protection of the members of these cooperatives. According to the bill, in liquidation proceedings, the income of the members of the natural persons of these two types of cooperatives falls under the same consideration as the wages and other wage benefits to the debtor. In this way, those in the most vulnerable situations can be protected by the fact that, through the cooperative, compensation for their work to the debtor will be paid even in the event of insolvency of the debtor, by the fact that the fee due to the natural person to the cooperative members is classified in the same category as the salary of the debtor. Dear House, Those who have already taken part in the winding-up procedure have seen the pitfalls in it, they know how important this proposal is, how small the chances are for those who stand back in the ranking to gain satisfaction and get their wages. The form of cooperative is a social enterprise of a kind capable of providing its members with versatile benefits in terms of its traditions, specificities and proven achievements. This has also been demonstrated by the pensioner's cooperative and is based on the functioning of student cooperatives and school cooperatives. Each member in the cooperative has one vote, on the basis of the principle of a member, one vote, the membership relationship is flexible, there is no pressure to work, the members decide on their personal contribution in an autonomous manner, agreeing with the cooperative. Members receive income in proportion to their contribution and can benefit from the services of the cooperative and benefit from the form of cooperative. The cooperative is able to provide market participants with a continuous, flexible, professional service that meets their needs, in order to also carry out the administrative tasks associated with employment. The cooperatives were first regulated in Hungary in 1875, defining it as a personal merger for economic purposes. Count Sándor Károlyi, the initiator of the Hungarian cooperative movement, proposed that consumer and credit cooperatives were established from the 1870s, including the Hungarian Farmers' Association, which was founded in 1898, with the largest number of members, the Ant-Manufacturing and Sales Cooperative, which was engaged in the purchase and sale of agricultural and industrial products. The Ant count in 1914 was approximately 200,000. In 1947, under the new cooperative law, these strong cooperative movements of great importance began gradually to be brought under state control. The emerging socialist dictatorship put nationalization of cooperative movements and violent cooperativeization on its flag. As a result, between 1949 and 1961, nearly all agricultural land was managed by cooperatives. Its members worked in favour of the cooperative on their former land. Violent cooperativeism left bad memories in farmers, who did not want to stay in cooperatives after the change of regime, so they stepped out in bulk, thus bringing the majority of agricultural cooperatives to an end. Dear Parliament, LXXXIX 2017 Law 1 made it possible to set up pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest. The public pensioner cooperative is a social enterprise of active elderly people, which aims to help balance the difficulties in the field of employment, the return of older people who are still active to the labour market flexibly, appropriately, and to provide additional opportunities for the transfer of knowledge, professional knowledge, life experience between generations, and to strengthen local communities and social inclusion. The National Association for the Protection of Interests of the Public Retirement Cooperatives was established with the cooperation of seven, most of which are nationally active pensioners. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-29-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to László Kordás, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us would be good in itself in terms of its objectives, although I would have liked to have seen the same intention, the same objective in the Labour Code, and I would have very much liked to have seen it in the Labour Control Act or even in the Labour Safety Act, this concern that is being done for workers right now in the view of the pensioners' cooperative. I kind of get the feeling that when we talk about retirement cooperatives, it's like the government's goal is to support the pension scheme so that they don't have to pay a pension. I have this feeling because I see that most of what you have done in the last 10 to 12 years has been a scam against the retirement society, on the one hand, because we should start from the fact that the early early retirement pension system was suddenly abolished in December 2014. The social partners then concluded an agreement on a minimum wage agreement whereby the social partners agreed to give up the minimum wage agreement according to their judgement in exchange for the government to negotiate early retirement and early retirement, and to bring the content of the agreement to Parliament during the next spring session in 2015, and with the support of the government, this agreement will pass. Mihály Varga signed this agreement and the social partners. It didn't come to nothing. Technically, a system has been abolished without any replacement that these people can live with, and I am thinking about the conditions for early retirement in the first place. We also have another problem with the system itself, which also affects pensioners' cooperatives, or may affect them, and that is the question of those who are receiving benefits. There's practically an upper limit, a limit when they're taking a job, and by the way, within a year, how much is the amount of income you can't go above, because then you'll have to give up your service allowance. We believe that in this case, too, it is a restriction on employment. Rather, these limits should be freed by the government, and retirement employment would probably be able to recover. With regard to social cooperatives and pensioners' cooperatives, this is obviously a strange situation, because there is an employer and a worker, and the pensioner's cooperative enters between them, which means that such a cooperative has operating costs, accounting costs, management costs and other costs, which are obviously payable from the wage that has been committed, which cannot be obtained by the cooperative members. I think that if basically we think of the people who are forced to work alongside the pension or want to work voluntarily, they can be created under simple legal conditions either by encouraging workers or by encouraging the individual to work. So I think that the form of a pensioner-cooperative as such is not necessary to solve the further employment of pensioners. This is basically what the figures show, as I have seen the evolution of the number of members of the pensioners' cooperatives over the past period. [[8.20]] There was an initial period when it started, then there was an ascending system, then there was a retirement cooperative of around 100-150-160, and then suddenly, as the discounts were taken away from them, it fell by 45. Now there are hardly any pensioners like this, counting a few dozen members. What is the next problem with pensioners' cooperatives is that I would think that it would be a very important element of the review of the pension system itself, for example, the issue of minimum pensions, which is HUF 28 500, and for 13 years now the same amount. You did not touch this amount, you practically do not even follow inflation contrary to your promise, because you said that pensions will increase with inflation, which in itself is a scam, because if we look at it, the consumer basket of pensioners shows significantly higher inflation than average inflation. So, therefore, they have already been left out in this sense. Not with average inflation should their pensions be increased year after year, but with a minimum of a retired consumer basket, but it would be even better to go back to the post-wage pension system. If we look at how the pension payments of pensioners in relation to GDP, i.e. in relation to the national aggregate, we see that now in the current budget about 4000 billion are actually paid to pensioners, which is 8.3 percent of the total national product. That was at some point about 10 percent, I mean the 2010s. So it would be good for the proposer and the government themselves to think about how to make the lives of pensioners easier, for example, in terms of a very rigid, very rigid pension system with the abolition of early retirement. This very rigid, very cold pension system cannot respond to individual life situations. For example, you cannot solve the situation that one of my colleagues' fathers experienced, that at 62 years of age, unfortunately, because of high blood sugar, you are no longer able to drive a bus professionally. But I can also say such a driver. There are many such professions where, taking into account occupational health aspects, you can only practice that particular profession, such as diabetes or such high blood pressure, this is an exclusion factor when you practice this particular profession. What should a man, I ask the government or government representatives, what should the 61-62-year-old who stands there three years before retirement do, cannot practice his profession, which he has practiced for 40-42-45 years, and is in a new life situation? What should he do at a time like this? Why is he not allowed to retire with a flexible pension? And by the way, if you can still do some work, which is obviously not a full-fledged job, you could work through the pensioner's co-operative. There are a lot of such situations and situations in life, and the current rigid and rigid pension system does not provide a solution to these situations. I'd like to get to what's going on with the maternity unions. Well, I don't see it as such a big success story either. I don't see any of the mothers standing in line at the gates of the maternity unions trying to get a job. That's not what I believe they're supposed to do. Here, however, the issue of family allowances should be settled, which has not been raised in 12-13 years. So we should raise the family allowance. Or, for example, if you have already mentioned the pension minimum question, you can also see that the mothers who are past the lawn are receiving 28 500 HUF per month. If you had raised the minimum pension in 13 years, then obviously the amount of money could have increased, and perhaps you shouldn't have forced them back into the working world prematurely. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a great deal to be done in these two areas. We do not see a trace of this in this proposal, so we will develop our opinion accordingly that we support it or not the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-29-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-29-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have just heard our fellow Member, László Kordás, on behalf of DK, who began his speech by saying that he finally agreed with the aim of this bill, and then he whipped the whole thing and talked about something else, which was not the subject of this bill. Here in Parliament, as we are talking about a new Member, I must say that we are always discussing certain items on the agenda, some legislative proposals, and that is why I am asking you to do so in the future. By the way, referring to what you said, I find it amazing that you are criticizing the pension policy of the Fidesz-KDNP, you who have taken away the 13th month pension from pensioners, and we have given them back the pension; you who have made pensioners impossible, and we, by increasing inflation, are giving them every year the amount that is worthy and fair according to the performance of the economy. And obviously we would like to give more, and we hope that we will be able to give more to pensioners on the basis of the performance of the Hungarian economy. So I would like to point out once again that this bill is a bill amending the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Like school cooperatives, it would provide greater financial security for pensioners and so-called maternity cooperatives, whose employees are the most vulnerable workers. I think that this is something that is appreciated by everyone to embrace the most needy. The aim of the bill is therefore to ensure the protection of the members of the pensioners' cooperative and the maternity cooperative. According to the bill, in winding up proceedings, the income of the members of the natural persons of these two types of cooperatives would also be subject to the salary and other wage benefits of the debtor. In this way, once again, those in the most vulnerable situation could be protected from the fact that in the event of insolvency the wages due to them are still an extremely important measure. Once again, these definitions are complicated, so that the public can understand as much as possible: all this means that even the most vulnerable people must pay their wages in the event of the employer's inability to pay. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-29-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Imre Komjathi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/362 in front of us. I present our position as the key speaker of the MSZP on the draft law on the protection of members of the pension society of general interest and of the cooperative of small children. On behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, we support the amendment of the law, as it serves to protect the interests of the members, to increase and strengthen their rights; it is not like a metal cap. The purpose of this bill is to ensure the protection of members of the pension society of general interest and of the cooperative of small children. According to the bill, in liquidation proceedings, the income of the members of the natural persons of these two types of cooperatives is also subject to the salary and other wage benefits of the debtor. In this way, cooperative members may also benefit from the protection that compensation for their work through the cooperative to the debtor will also be paid in the event of insolvency of the debtor by placing the fee due to the natural person's cooperative members in the same category as the debtor's wage. [[8.30]] Almost every session, the law on pensioners' cooperatives is amended, but 15 percent of the revenue can still be given to people who have not participated in production. And that's the way it is in Chengeren and so it is in Debrecen. With regard to pensioners' cooperatives, we, named Anita Heringes, who was a former MSZP representative, proposed years ago: by incorporating his proposal, he would have prohibited the participation of the staff operating or possessing current school cooperatives in any form in the lives of pensioners' cooperatives. That was rejected by the majority at the time. They must have had their own personal reasons. But cooperatives based on voluntary partnerships had several advantages. For example, the advantage of this form of Community service provider and producer's economy was that in 2017-18 those who retired after 40 years of employment but had not yet reached 65 years of age were almost the only way to get back to work. The advantage of the cooperative scheme is that the worker can be employed flexibly or receives the result produced in proportion to the member's share, work, performance and knowledge; unlike the large majority of NER riders. We left-wing politicians are also sympathetic and eligible for community work, community-based cooperation, production, service, but it must also be shared together, with a fair share. We also reject the violent collectivization of 60 years ago, but also the current neoconservative neoliberal harrowing system, as well as the free-robbery capitalism of Orbán, according to which the individual and the profit are everything, the individual benefit is sacred. However, we believe in the strength of the community, the collaborative development, the climate crisis and the livelihood crisis. Renewal Community responses of the century. Dear Hungarian Parliament! On the basis of this amendment, the rights of members are strengthened, and this must be supported, because we are on the side of the workers, the small people. You can do something that can be supported, even rarely. In order to protect the incomes of cooperative members, the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings may now be amended by including in liquidation costs before other debts the remuneration due to members of the cooperative of small children and pensioners' cooperative in the public interest. This is legitimate and eligible. In the ongoing winding-up proceedings, the new provision shall apply to a payment due after the entry into force of the law, unless the liquidator has already submitted the closing balance sheet to the court until the entry into force of this Act. The amendment to the Law on Cooperatives requires pensioners' cooperatives to distribute at least 85% of their annual net turnover to members in proportion to their personal contributions, in the same way as the school cooperatives and the cooperative with small children. But 15 percent of the income can still be given to people who have not been involved in production. The objective pursued by the bill is eligible, as it supports cooperative members in order to obtain as soon as possible the income for which they have already worked in a bankruptcy and winding-up procedure. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-29-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now two-minute speeches are possible... [[There's no signal.]] But I don't see a candidate. Further speeches by Members are also possible. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-29-11	I apologise, Mr President, for interrupting the debate, but I think it is important to inform the Parliament that the government supports the adoption of the bill, given that the bill also provides the members of the pension society of general interest and of the cooperative of small children with a view to covering the payment of the financial allowance for their work in cases where the undertaking where the member of the cooperative is carrying out his work is subject to winding-up proceedings or restructuring proceedings. In the event of winding-up proceedings, the fee for the labour service shall be paid to the cooperative as liquidation costs and, if there is no cover, the State shall grant a wage guarantee. In the case of a judicial restructuring procedure, both the pensioners' cooperative of general interest and the members of the cooperative of small children must pay the cooperative's remuneration by the undertaking under the restructuring procedure. So you can't ask for a payment extension or any payment facilitation. The aim of the bill is therefore to provide each member with a financial contribution for the work of their members, a school cooperative, a public pensioner's cooperative and a co-operative of those at home with a small child. Therefore, the government supports the proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-29-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you if one of my fellow Members would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Congressman, please.
u2022-06-29-13	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Fate is a great screenwriter, because today is the day of the day of persecution of kulakációs, and we are about to discuss a bill on the first agenda, which, as it is a matter of cooperatives, is absolutely timely for this day, since we must not forget that the Stalinist-Communist dictatorship in Hungary and the Hungarian governors of the Hungarian state have forced full groups of agricultural society into the cooperative system; well, not that which, by the way, the XIX. Count Sándor Károlyi launched it in half of the century. Few people know, but at that time the cooperative movement was extremely strong, perhaps everyone heard of the Ant, even the one who was not informed about it, because Ant-Ant represented a greater economic power as a cooperative in the 1930s than Tesco in England, because even many people do not know that Tesco is a cooperative company. As cooperatives are extremely strong across Europe, let us just think that the Sparkasse or Raiffeisen Bank are the leading financial institutions in Europe. But there are many, by the way, in French, Danish and Dutch, they are cooperative owned, and the cooperative sector accounts for 17 percent of German agricultural output. Similar data are available in France, Denmark, the Netherlands, and not only in primary production, but also in complete processing, and even in Italy, Agricoop is the largest hypermarket network owned exclusively by individual farmers with complete processing systems. So this is an extremely powerful movement. This was the case in Hungary, too, until the dear Communists came, and otherwise the farmers working in agriculture were beaten until they had to tear their fingernails, kidney-slaughter... my grandfather, too, was a very sad fact, but the same fate, my grandfather, who told his 20 hectares of kulas, had to make sense of the size, in which case the cooperatives that started with the original intention of the cooperative movement had been destroyed, and instead came this useless Colhoz-Sov system, which did not work many times. Putting it in this great, historic, citation mark, because it was a villain, it was carried out by the villains, who were called communists at the end of the process, many hundreds of thousands of families were crippled, driven away from their homes and pursued their lives in hopelessness. In fact, it is a miracle that the Hungarian economy and peasantry were able to recover from such a trauma in some way. This may show the strength of Hungarian farmers, and it is very right to talk about this on this Memorial Day. I must say here in this debate that I should like to come to the debate on what has been said, that the left cannot understand this cooperative thing and this. [[8.40]] Excuse me, my fellow Members, but I have been told that the blood has gone cold in me. To say no more powerful signs now: total incomprehension is not a misunderstanding, a complete incomprehension when a person prays with an elephant, but it won't work. Let me just quote one thing. Now my colleague, Komjathi, recalled Anita Heringes, who, in fact, put forward on behalf of the MSZP in an amendment to the cooperative law, the proposal to make a decision that the persons who own the cooperative should not receive any remuneration from the cooperative. But good morning, who owns the cooperative? The members. One member, one vote, not two, not three, one member, one vote. So the owner of the cooperative is not the president of the company. That was in your world when the president was the master of life and death, and maybe you weren't part of the co-operative at the time. The owners of the cooperative are members. The exclusion of membership from receiving something from the income it produces is such a misunderstanding that I do not use any other strong adjective, which shows that in vain, this cooperative thing is not a left-wing idea because otherwise, the original idea of a cooperative originated in England and was specifically given to small owners, and they do not know how to do it. What was accomplished in Hungary by the slavish copying of Stalinism and called the world of TS has nothing to do with the original idea of association. The fact is that I can say other things, how should I put it, in relation to the comments, and I say that they really do not understand it, because the 85-15 rule specifically protects cooperative owners, membership, because it does not say that at least 15% must be paid to cooperative employees who otherwise operate the cooperative, but that the membership must be paid at least 85%; it can be more, but at least 85%. This was also to be done, my dear fellow Member Komjathi, because there were some modern cooperative movements, which also started from the left, which can best be marked by the name of Csaba Czeglédy, who is, by the way, a common criminal. This was also acknowledged by the Hungarian court in a previous proceeding when Czeglédy sued someone for calling him a criminal, but it turned out that Czeglédy had already been convicted twice for tax crimes, and I note that the third procedure is also under way. I just say to Mr Kordás that we know what we are talking about in the cooperative movement: Ferenc Gyurcsány's personal lawyer, Klára Dobrev's lawyer Csaba Czeglédy [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] The guy who didn't pay for it, he didn't pay for it! students for work, and he was the one who, by the way, cheated both VAT and other tax liabilities, which is why he was convicted twice. And she's the one with the XI. After the election of the mayor of the district, mayor of DK, ask him immediately for a contract worth millions of forints for screening the district, so to speak, by the way, that Csaba Czeglédy did not conduct a legal practice in person at that time, because he was also excluded from the bar in Vas county. So the thing is, I have to tell you that this cooperative thing on the left doesn't work, you don't understand, you have no idea what if you see it, it's the possibility of crime and theft. What is this about, on the other hand? Oh, and let me tell you something else, my dear fellow Member of the Cordas. In essence, should we not forget that we are now amending the legislation on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings in one place and there you mean from the point of view of ranking? Bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Now, okay, let's look at the world in a holistic way, but in order to make an amendment to a law on bankruptcy account of the complete reform of the Hungarian pension system, I think it is a little strong. Mr Kordás, there is no way of welding the reform of the pension system into this, that is another issue. And what you've seen, I don't know how you've read that it's all about not having to pay pensions, it's so stupid, I apologize to you for what you rarely hear in Parliament. With that power, you could have said that the law actually contains deporting me, I don't know who I don't know where. No kidding. Where did you read this? Where did you read this? ! Not to mention the fact that you were also a government supporter, let us not forget that during the Gyurcsány period the 13th month's pension was taken away, and in your own time pension increases were canceled, we can remember, and the Fidesz government was the first to pay a pension premium in the Hungarian pension history, and we gave back the 13th month's pension. So the fact that you're going to come up with the idea that we're going to stop paying pensions is absurd. The thing is, you also said that it's okay to have this retirement cooperative, but it should be created so that pensioners can work more and more without restrictions and at a reduced rate, giving employers discounts if they want to work at their workplaces. [[László Kordas: I didn't say that!]] Now, Mr. Kordas, I have good news: this has been implemented by the Fidesz government. The pensioner-reemployment scheme you have introduced has worked in such a way that, first of all, if someone continued to work at their workplace, the upper limit of the income that he could earn was limited, and his employer was obliged to pay social security, and even he had to pay a pension contribution, or there was a complicated system: if he chose not to pay a pension contribution, then the additional employment period was not included in his pension fund, and most importantly, he could not have received his pension. Now, what did we do compared to that? We said that the pensioner could continue to be employed, that he would receive his pension, that is, in the case of an old-age pension, that he would get his pension if he wanted to, that he would continue to work, and if his employer saw fit, that the employer would not have to pay any public costs, that he would not have to pay social security contributions, that he would receive his pension, and that the only obligation was to pay 15 per cent of his salary. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Not 36!]] Not 36 percent, 15 percent, so not 36 percent, as in the socialist governments, but 15 percent. So in Hungarian: in fact, we for pensioners are strictly voluntary... so the accusation is again that we want to force pensioners to go somewhere, not quite simply, because it is completely optional, voluntary. Someone is employed either in the context of very flexible pensioners' cooperatives, if they want to or as pensioners' employees. So the thing is, we've accomplished what you're asking us to do. Then I'd like to give you good news: fortunately, what you've asked us to do has all been done before. He also said that he literally said that, although he did not state in particular that after the various benefits had been removed from pensioners' cooperatives, the number of pensioners' cooperatives had been reduced to a few dozen pensioners' cooperatives. First of all, we didn't take any discount, none at all. Secondly, of course, the fact that 80,000 pensioners worked in 2019, two years after the establishment of the pensioner-cooperative scheme, can be said to be a small number. It was much more than that, so there were 140,000 members of the pensioners' cooperative, but only 80,000 of them worked because some people just wanted to join the cooperative because they wanted to be in the community, because pensioners' cooperatives also have a community dimension. This is why the form of cooperative is different from other forms of company, because let's not forget that the cooperative is a company, not an association, not an association, not a welfare organisation, but a company. [[8.50]] The difference between the cooperative and the other companies is that while each company has a so-called capital interest, the cooperative has a participation interest. No matter what kind of intellect, how diligent, how powerful, a member has one vote. So in the Lowland Sales Association, Bonafarm has exactly the same number of votes as Péter Szabó, who specifically has two mangalica sows. It's a genre, a very special genre, no wonder the left doesn't understand, because what happens here is what people want. In this sense, they cannot exploit themselves, because in previous debates we have also heard that cooperative management exploit cooperatives. Okay, in a dictatorship, in your cooperative system, if not exploitation, but by harsh means, the repression of membership has been achieved. However, that is not the case here. Let's not forget that it was in 19! In 20, not the withdrawal or the elimination of the benefits, but the Covid epidemic brought with it that the total income of the cooperative scheme in the case of pensioners' cooperatives was only HUF 6 billion, and only 55,000 worked, because Covid was unable to work. But by 21, it's gone back to 11 billion and 80,000 members. I admit that 2.5-2.7 depends on where the service benefits are classified in the entire retirement society, not as a persuasive number, but as an opportunity, but as an opportunity for people, and then someone else uses it, and others don't. People who don't take advantage of it, they don't suffer any disadvantages, they take advantage of it, they can make some money, they love what they do, they're proud of it. I've been talking to countless cooperative members. The dearest was a 70-year-old lady, or rather a lady, who, with the greatest pride, said that she was the caretaker of one of the largest housing houses in Debrecen, who carried out her job in retirement-cooperative employment, absolutely responsible. He showed it and said that he felt that he still needed it, not his fate, which, in the majority of cases, is that there are two main problems with pensioners, pension payments and health care, nothing else, this behaviour can be seen. In fact, the reason why pensioners have to create opportunities is to find the opportunities that everyone, in their own taste, can still, if they are in the mood, fulfill their lives. If you don't want to, you don't, it's based on full volunteering. Nevertheless, I am glad that the work has not been in vain, because I remember that I have been dealing with this issue since 2010 as a Member of Parliament, and I did not know before, because our proposals in opposition were not accepted by the then majority, but I have been dealing with this cooperative issue since 2010 and I consider it an extremely important opportunity. Today, in full employment, the so-called atypical ones are also roughly 15-20 percent of the number of temporary agency workers in the labour market. There are 200,000 members of the student cooperative, and last year's income was 60 billion forints. I think that this is a unique one that could, by the way, be set as an example for the other Member States of the European Union. It may include social groups whose members are insured in other legal relationships, everything is already here, by the way, mothers, pensioners and students, so we can give employers the incentive that they are not burdened by the social security system. This is very flexible anyway, although this is also the downside, because if there is an economic recession, first the business contracts can be terminated, and, of course, then nothing is due, but simply says that I do not know, the big store, that thank you very much, in checkout 6, 7 we do not ask for the operation of the cashier from one of the cooperatives. But otherwise, there are whole systems in the form of cooperative operations. All of Hungary's mall cinemas are run by student associations, which is why everyone is a student from the cashier to the ticket collector to the popcorn vendor. But this is good, because, for example, this is seen in the employment data of the 18-25-year-olds, because it is not only possible to earn money here, but also to obtain work socialization, which is very important, because it is significantly lacking in the Hungarian education system. That is why I am pleased if Mr Komjathi says that he supports the proposal, and if I can convince Mr Kordas, I am particularly pleased. I will not give up this fight, given that the Hungarian cooperative movement has entrusted me with leading the National Cooperative Council as President. I've been doing this before, and I've been doing this ever since, and I think it's an opportunity. Possibility for pensioners, opportunity for mothers, opportunity for the cooperative movement, so if you support the opposition, I really thank you very much. Of course, our political views will not coincide, but in such a case we are one more. I will certainly come up with a number of cooperative proposals, and I hope that we will also have a constructive debate in it; in addition to the fact that there has already been a significant debate or disagreement between us on the legislative proposals that I have tabled, if we remember. It's okay. Parliament is for us to discuss this. So thank you very much for Mr Komjathi's preliminary support, and I would also ask Mr Kordas to support it. It is true that this amendment to bankruptcy law does not include a complete reform of the pension system, and a few more things are missing, but let's look at the case. If we can give you this protection, we'll give it to you. That's one way in. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-29-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on economic regulation until closure. The government referral is T/366. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2022-06-29-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Act on the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities was adopted by Parliament on 27 April 2021. A stable, predictable operational and regulatory environment for sectors supervised by the State has been established with the creation of a separate regulatory body focusing on the public interest. The organisation serves these objectives effectively. A total of 17 laws are being amended to address the issues raised in the practical application of law, to clarify legislation and to harmonise legislation and to meet EU requirements. In my expo, I'd like to highlight three larger areas. In the context of the Ukrainian war, the issue of energy security has been appreciated throughout Europe. The Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to ensure that our country's energy supply remains secure in uncertain times due to war. In this way, Hungary's electricity grid will continue to be renewed and capacity development will progress much faster than planned. Our aim is to produce 90 percent of electricity free of carbon emissions by 2030. The capacity of domestic solar panels increased ten times over five years, with 26 percent of electricity produced from renewable sources already in 2021. The European Commission has transferred funding worth HUF 23 billion to our country, which has been supplemented by domestic funds. Thanks to this, we can support the development of the network by HUF 103 billion. The question of diversification is important for Hungary's energy security. Since 2010, the number of neighbouring countries with which our gas supply is connected has increased from two to six, and this year we will also achieve that our high-voltage power grid from the seven neighbouring countries is connected by seven instead of the current six. [[9.00]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not all countries have strategic storage capacity, but Hungary does. The uploading of strategic containers is a key issue in Europe's current situation. Europe faces major energy challenges due to sanctions, but Hungarian energy supply is currently stable and secure. In particular, but not exclusively for the construction industry, it is important to boost domestic production and to ensure the supply of raw materials. To this end, it is necessary to amend the Mining Act, which aims in particular to encourage increased extraction and to address issues raised in the application of practical law. Reliable and affordable energy supply is essential for the quality of life of Hungarians, so the more domestic sites, the more energy sovereignty of our country. The bill also contains a number of elements that facilitate the administrative burden, the work of mining contractors and reduce bureaucracy, such as the research right of the mining contractor not to cease if it does not initiate the establishment of the mine within the deadline, but only its exclusivity is lost. The amendment relating to the designation of concession areas is incorporated into the law, which organisations are involved in the so-called complex sensitivity and loadability test. The detailed rules of the investigation will be governed in the future by an official regulation rather than by the previous Government Decree, which requires legal authorisation. The rule facilitating the activities of undertakings is that, on the basis of the amendment, the research area can be returned not only by having an existing research, technical and operational plan, but also if the technical and operational plan has not yet been approved by the Mining Inspectorate or after the completion of the research activity, even if the mining contractor does not intend to submit an application for a mining project. The proposal also serves to clarify the legislation on landscape planning. The obligation of the mining contractor to organise the landscape is by virtue of the law, which must be carried out in accordance with the technical and operational plan. Accordingly, it is obliged to put the area involved in mining activities in a state suitable for recycling or to adapt them to the natural environment. Mining is a dangerous activity and it should therefore be possible to apply the strictest penalty to mining companies that operate in a particularly illegal manner if the Mining Inspectorate detects an infringement in at least four cases over a two-year period. Customers apply for amendments to mining inspection permits on a number of occasions. A decision may concern several requests for amendments. In order for the amendments to be understood correctly, it is appropriate to include them in the basic decision as a single decision. By amending the law on the organisation of gambling, we will bring the legislation into line with the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the amendment will also serve to ensure strict player protection, increase tax revenues and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The authority shall, inter alia, supervise trade in tobacco products. In addition to maintaining the results of the legal environment created to protect non-smokers and to reduce underage smoking, the government's aim remains to take the lead in responding to social processes and market trends. I would like to inform you that, according to KSH data, the proportion of regular and occasional smokers has decreased over the last ten years as a result of previous measures, from 25 percent to 15 percent in the 15 and 17 age groups. The bill therefore strengthens and expands the authority's instruments against the illegal trade in tobacco products. The protection of our children is our shared responsibility and it is therefore necessary to further strengthen our shared social responsibility. The amendment to the Law on the public interest and development of the motorway network is justified by the fact that the legislation in force creates legal uncertainty. It is not clear which mineral raw materials are considered as mixtures of sand, clay and gravel mineral raw materials for which the target producing site can be established. Therefore, the use and regulation of the Mining Act for the establishment of material-rewarding sites will also be transposed in order to harmonise the law. In addition to the above, the draft intends to address practical enforcement issues raised during the operation of the Authority, as well as policy issues raised in the context of legislative responsibilities, as well as minor technical clarifications. For the reasons I have presented and the reasons for the bill, I ask all the groups of Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-29-16	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/366 in front of you. The draft law amending certain economic regulation laws includes amendments to a number of laws, such as the Mining Act, the Law on the Organisation of Gambling, the Law on the Control of Smoking of Young People and the Law on the Retail Trade of Tobacco Products. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I would like to talk about some of the main elements of the bill and the need to adopt it. Dear House, With regard to the amendment of the Mining Act, its aim is primarily to encourage the increase in extraction by legal means, to address issues raised in the application of practical law, and to clarify legislation. In the case of the examination of applications for a research permit covered by the authorisation of the mining site and the mining authority, it would be sufficient to declare to the mining undertaking that it has fulfilled its various payment obligations, confessed the mining fee, by the fact that, in the case of an applicant's declaration of false content, the mining authority may withdraw the authorisation granted at any time without a time limit. The State currently exercises a quasi-pre-emptive right in the case of a request for the transfer of mining rights under an official licence for raw and raw materials in the construction sector. This means that the mining authority will send data on mining rights to the owner's practice body of the Hungarian State, which may declare within 35 days of the notification of the request that the transfer of the mining right will be taken over by the owner of the mining right or by the Hungarian State with the rights and obligations of the recipient. The amendment replaces this system by requiring a genuine state pre-emption right before the mining supervision procedure. The amendment requires the request of the body exercising the rights of the Hungarian State for the exercise of the right of pre-emption, not only in the case of the transfer of mining rights under construction materials, but also under any official authorisation, within a 60-day deadline. The law on the organisation of gambling removes the number of gifts because they are not considered gambling. As with other actions, consumer protection oversight of gift orders will continue to be carried out by government agencies as general consumer protection bodies. The wide-range gambling category falls within the scope of so-called liberalised gambling, thus eliminating the monopoly of the state gaming operator on the organisation of distance gambling. Dear House, The amendment to the Law on the control of young people's smoking and retail trade in tobacco introduces the concept of unauthorised retail trade in tobacco products. The regulation aims to clarify that the sale of tobacco products outside the tobacco store is only illegal and that the sale of tobacco products which are prohibited from being placed on the market in Hungary is also an unauthorised activity. The regulation of the scope of products which are not subject to a traff in the tobacco store will be established in the regulation of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities, hereinafter referred to as the "SZTFH'. [[9.10]] The bill contains amendments to the 2021 LXIV on restructuring and amending certain laws for harmonisation purposes. in respect of the law. The process of restructuring experts and the process of restructuring is a new legal institution, which is the European Parliament and Council's 2019/1023. It will be incorporated into the domestic legal order by transposing its directive from 1 July 2022. According to the law which entered into force on 1 July 22, the restructuring expert's activities will be subject to official control by the SZTFH as the registration body of the insolvency administrators and the public insolvency administrators. In view of this, it is appropriate that detailed rules on the judicial secondment of the restructuring expert and the termination of the designation and the methodology for the secondment of the restructuring expert and the rules for the further training of the restructuring experts should be laid down by the chairman of the STFH in his regulation. CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. According to the amendment of the Act, in the case of professional cooperation in an official procedure relating to mining activities, the professional contribution shall be refused even if the total area of land already used for that purpose but not yet used in the outer territory of the municipality to which the request for the establishment of mining sites relates exceeds 25 per cent of the total area of land already used for that purpose. Furthermore, there is no justification for the stricter regulation of the law on external mining, destination and material access. The regulation also hinders the mining of raw materials and raw materials in the construction sector and the construction of infrastructure investments. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, and therefore, in light of what has been said, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill in a manner similar to that of the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-29-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give you the floor, Gy. Ms Erzsébet Németh, lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Well, in the beginning, when Madam Secretary started talking about this bill, I was confused for a moment that she was sitting in the right place, but then I looked at her... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We know you don't!]] Yes, I know Congressman Nacsa thinks I'm in the wrong place. I assure you, I'm in position. So, the point is, T/366. We are discussing a legislative proposal, which, I think, has three main fundamental areas, and in these three key core areas, these three basic areas of the package of proposals have very much in common: gambling, mining and tobacco trade. What do they have in common? The common thing is that he gave a state monopoly in the previous government cycles of Fidesz after 2010, in many cases he was a buddy. They have in common that there is a lot of money in all three sectors, which are profitable sectors, and what we see now is that in this salad law, in this package of proposals, you want to facilitate the way of the money that can be obtained from them. But why would they want to make it easier? Because in recent years these concessions, these monopolies, have been given to faithful companies and persons linked to Viktor Orbán and Fidesz, such as the Prime Minister's father, the Prime Minister's favorite oligarchs, and there are Members of Parliament in this Chamber not now during the debate of the law, but also Members whose families or business partners benefit from these opportunities. Let's look at these cases in detail. Let's take a look at NER riders and casino business. In 2012, the Fidesz government started a complete transformation of the gambling market. A noble goal has been set, and now we have a quote:, the ban on money-winning machines is the fight against money laundering, and the end of the quote for social and family protection reasons was necessary to complete this market. What happened next? They built a huge deal fast. Slots weren't completely banned, but they were only allowed to operate in casinos on the grounds that they were better controlled there. Yes, it is better to check where these funds are going, and the main goal was that the profits fatted to tens of billions of forints per year would end up in the right places. At the end of 2013, a new law was passed to open new ones to the existing three casinos, so today you can grant a total of 11 casino concessions, 5 of which can be in Budapest and Pest counties, 3-3 in East and West Hungary. State Gambling Zrt. in the course of continuous legislative changes. István Garancsi, who is known to be a rope friend of the Prime Minister, took his place in this business. In 2021 they went even further and the non-expired concessions were re-allocated by the National Concession Office under the supervision of Antal Rogán. And let us see a miracle: the five casinos in Budapest were given to István Garancsi and the interests related to the new Minister of Defence, Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky. Now, let's look at the mining business for a while. The Orbán family owns one of the country's most successful mines, the Gánt quarry. The mine has been producing outstanding profits for years, delivering its products significantly more expensively, possibly 60-70 percent higher than its main competitors. And here comes the real twist: the company is a regular supplier of large public investments, so it also receives public money for products that are more expensive than the market average. In recent years, almost 45 percent of the company's revenues have been profitable. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you think this is a fair trade? The profits were also taken out with the decision of 18 May this year; the dividend will be HUF 1.8 billion. It is also quite obvious that here, in the current law before us, the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities in Mining matters will continue to ensure that the necessary public funds are transferred to the right pockets. The third area of the law, where it makes money easier, is tobacco trade. We have spoken many times and many times, and my fellow Members have spoken among the walls of this House about traffikmutyi, and they have spoken of the opposition parties, including DK outside, in public about the so-called traffikmutyi. János Lázár admitted that the tobacco concession law was written on the computer of the head of one of the large tobacco companies, and that the concession was awarded to those close to Fidesz, Fidesz, such as the former representative brother of László Böröcz, Antal Rogán's friend, Kristóf Szatmáry's mother, and János Sánta himself, the author of the law, and György Simonka, who is no longer a member of the law, had a great deal of trade interests. A total of 1,500 concessions were awarded to Fidesz and to the Fidesz Moonyard. Business has been booming ever since. And now, according to this bill, the regulation is softened in all three areas, by the fact that, according to the bill, some powers from the level of law fall into the hands of the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities already mentioned. This new authority is a separate regulatory body, the president of which issues regulations, like the head of the media authority and the public utility office. For example, it will no longer be a law, but the SZTFH will determine what authorised products or other conditions will be laid down by regulation in tobacco trade. The President of this authority shall be appointed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister and, of course, for nine years, from which he is almost irreplaceable. Paying 4.5 million forints a month, four forints apiece. The Democratic Coalition, of course, disagrees with the fact that, in the above areas, important issues are increasingly falling under the regulatory powers of the SZTFH rather than the state legislation. This means that new areas of the economy and public money are out of control of the Parliament, and the risk of corruption is even greater. The proposed regulation fits in with the general trend in which administrative regulatory competences are withdrawn from Parliament or from an illegal government authorised by Parliament, such as the National Media and Infocommunications Authority or the Competition Authority. [[9.20]] These institutions, which are not independent of Fidesz, will continue to strengthen the Fidesz deep state for a long time through the person of loyal leaders who have been cemented for several years. In addition to the general regulatory problem, the changes indicated in relation to gambling are of concern in themselves. It is proposed that certain details of the gambling service are drawn up in the regulation of the President of the SZTFH, but in fact it is clearly intended to circumvent the judgment of the European Court of Justice and is aimed at crowding out foreign competitors. In relation to mining, the justification of the bill does not deny the specific purpose. There's another quote coming up. As if papa Orbán's mine hadn't been profitable enough so far. In the case of mining companies, there is a legitimate expectation that the useful material in the mining site will be produced within a reasonable time. In addition, this proposal contains clarification elements to simplify the administrative burden on the mining contractor and to simplify the bureaucracy of its work, which facilitates the application of the law in practice. All of this, as I have already said, makes it easier for entrepreneurs belonging to the lunar yard, whether they are interested in gambling, mines or trades, to operate more easily. Ladies and gentlemen, The Democratic Coalition does not support this bill, and I think it is time for you to finally adopt laws for the sake of the people, or put laws before this House, rather than helping an increasingly enriching layer linked to the Fidesz Station. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-29-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-29-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, I wanted to talk about the protection of non-smokers and the reduction of smoking in relation to the bill, since I do not wish to repeat the expo and to give a speech as a keynote speaker to all the details of the bill, but as so many times Gy. Elizabeth Németh always inspires me. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That's why I'm here!]] A pro-Gyurcsány representative of the Democratic Coalition stands up and accuses us of corruption, who worked a few months ago at the capital city to which Hungary's biggest corruption scandal is connected, the case of Metro 4. Not us, honourable Member, but OLAF and the European Union say that the biggest corruption scandal in Hungarian political history was the 4th metro, where hundreds of millions of forints simply disappeared, your principle friends stole it, let us say out loud. But he didn't talk about the Sukoro case, the real estate problems in Terézváros and Józsefváros, the Welt 2000 case, the Hagyó case, Gábor Simon, the countless corruption cases associated with your time, and which made the Gyurcsány government the most corrupt government of all time between 2006 and 2010, of course, in a close alliance with Gordon Bajnai, who is now one of your real estate agents at City Hall. I think that, if the congresswoman has spoken of such matters, it is worth having a self-examination rather than unfounded accusations. But let's look at the bill, because I think there are very important things in it. As I have said, I would like to talk a little bit about the protection of non-smokers, as the new regulatory steps to be taken to reduce the smoking of minors are also included in the current bill. Under the proposal, the regulation of the scope of tobacco products that are not subject to traffic control will be established in the future, not at the statutory level, but in the regulation of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities. I think that this means a much faster, much more flexible, much simpler regulatory environment, which is beneficial for protecting consumers, because if a new product appears on the market, if a new product that is harmful to minors, for example, is available online, then the authority can act much faster than if we are discussing legislative proposals until the end of the day. And time is always the most important thing here. Whether it is to prevent drugs or to reduce drugs or to take action to protect non-smokers, time is always the most important factor in how fast we can move. Classical tobacco products, like cigarettes, are known to everyone, and everyone is aware of the consequences that are indicated on the boxes and on various leaflets. However, the latest alternative smoking methods pose a huge risk, since we do not know what they contain and what their impact on consumers is. Herbal products for smoking with this heating appear on the market in new form and new content every day, most often not through Hungarian distributors, but via foreign companies registered in Slovakia, Romania or anywhere. Or if there is a physical store, there is also a foreign company behind the sale. An immediate rapid response regulatory mechanism is needed here. I think, despite all our political debates, you may even agree that it is worth taking action in this area. In recent times, and even to this day, press reports are still full of the serious dangers of the so-called Elf Bar, known as the new generation of smoking. The illegally marketed Elf Bar has become extremely popular in an incredibly short period of time among young people, underage people. Elf Bar is not a tested product, therefore there is no scientific information about it, but it targets the most endangered and vulnerable age group due to its presentation and flavour. The product that is very easily available to everyone online may even cause serious poisoning according to experts, but it can also result in blood spitting due to a wide range of headaches, chest pain, dizziness and the amount of volatile substances. We can therefore see that this is an extremely dangerous product. The bill before us introduces the concept of unauthorized retail trade in tobacco products. The regulation aims to make it absolutely clear that the sale of products which can only be marketed in tobacco shops is illegal and that the sale of tobacco products which are prohibited from being placed on the market in Hungary is also an unauthorised activity. I hope that the bill will be adopted, and I hope that left-wing Members will be able to support our actions to reduce smoking, especially underage smoking. I hope that the left can also support the immediate reduction of these new, dangerous products, which doctors believe are dangerous, and that the authorities will be able to act under the new legislation when they place illegal products on the market that are harmful to minors. This amendment also replaces the rules on the time limit for payment of the fine and the method of payment. In order to increase the willingness and ability to pay fines, the amendment introduces the level of differentiated fines by natural persons engaged in illegal tobacco retailing activities and the possibility of payment in instalments of fines imposed for any reason, which are more appropriate to the weight of the infringer. The fine paid in instalments is still better than it was not paid at all. This part of the legislative amendment package therefore serves to protect non-smokers and also aims at reducing smoking, as smoking is a serious public health problem in Hungary, which also affects the national economy. Smoking is considered responsible for 90% of lung cancer, which is one of the leading deaths in Hungary today. A quarter of deaths due to cardiovascular disease can also be considered as a consequence of smoking, which is why the national government has been committed to reducing smoking since 2010. For this reason, we have taken measures to protect non-smokers in recent years, we have placed great emphasis on the importance of prevention, and we also support quitting smoking through various programmes. While in 2010, in your time, it was perfectly natural that virtually anyone could smoke anywhere he liked, smoking in public institutions, workplaces, stops, bars, restaurants and other community closed spaces is now unimaginable. I consider it particularly important to protect young people, young people from smoking, and therefore the full ban on smoking in educational establishments, the ban on any advertising of tobacco, and the strict rules on the sale of tobacco in national tobacco stores, as well as programmes for young people at risk of smoking, to be a significant achievement. In addition to the amendment of the law on reducing smoking of minors and on the retail trade in tobacco products, we consider the other elements of the bill to be forward-looking and useful, so the KDNP fraction will support the bill as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.30]]
u2022-06-29-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-23	Thank you very much for the floor. I thought there was someone else in front of me, I'm sorry, but it is a great pleasure to speak after Mr Nacsa on such an important subject. It was a pleasure yesterday, even though he left a little early, he might have been sleepy last night, and it took us a long time to work here last night. Yesterday, when I spoke at a meeting, perhaps half past half past, on another subject, during the debate on the law amending certain electoral laws and related laws, it was also a pleasure to listen to my colleague Nacsa, because it was an incredible pleasure, especially the first few minutes of his speech today, to confirm how well Parliamentarianism is working. So he likes to point back not just for 12 years, but for twenty years. This is always a sign of how successful their government is by closing parentheses. So, yesterday in the debate, when I spoke about another law, I thought a little about the rule of law, whether there is a rule of law in Hungary, and that then we can pretend that there is a rule of law, because there are laws before the House and there is debate and discussion about it. With regard to the amendment of the electoral law there, I indicated that I think that, in a rule of law, this will be discussed first with the opposition and presented together, because the law states operate in a way that the electoral law is submitted jointly, the two sides of the House. It was just a parentheses sentence to introduce that yesterday, let's say, I was able to reflect on the problems of the rule of law for the first time before talking specifically about the law. Now, before I speak specifically of the law, let's say I'm happy to bring you the definition of the Mafia state. I hope you have all read the book series of Bálint Magyar, where he talks about the features of the Mafia state. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] One of the features of the Mafia state is that there is no formal or minimal corruption, because the system itself operates in such a way that the Mafia State creates its organization and institutions so that everything is formally legal, only those who benefit from the system that is maintained can function legally. That's what I thought about this law when I read this and looked at it. To be benign, then it is just such a traditional salad law, which is very difficult to judge, by the way, a voting attitude, I think, because there are things in it, and I will say something that should be supported, and I absolutely agree with it, but otherwise there are many parts that are unacceptable. Overall, if I look at, say, what concessions are normally affected by this salad law: it affects, let's say, gambling casinos, in general, gambling or remote gambling, in relation to mines, construction concessions or construction activities, it affects the activities of executives to say, these are listed here. And it is true, when you say that within the NER system, you represent people and make laws for people, because I see that this law is also about proposals for people. Well, I'm telling the people for whom it's for their own good. Well, if it's like a toy casino, then maybe you're here with Garanchi and some of the other people you've got. He inherited the concessions of late Andy Vajna. So you really are making this law for the good of the people. Let's say it's about Garanchi or Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky, I hope I got your last name right. If it's about the mines, then you're also representing the people here: let's say, I remember the name of Victor Orbán, whom you represent here. When it comes to the construction industry, they really represent the people: among the many other names, we can say Sniper Lion Mészáros. When it comes to executives, you probably don't represent Völner's interests anymore, you probably already have other interests, but it's as if the thought started from there, and if you look at tobacco products in general or traffiks in general, then probably not only Lazarus, but, as the colleague said, they represent the interests of, for example, Kristóf Szatmáry or his dear mother. So, indeed, NER represents the interests of the people in this regard. It is also gratifying to establish a special authority for this, we call it the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, which will be intended to represent the interests of the people, to represent the interests of the people listed above and the interests of some other NER holders or NER participants. Anyway, let's talk. Let's be benevolent. So it's a salad law, it's a lot of parts, and I'd like to indicate a few little things, and I'd like to say something that I can support by far. In general, for example, I find it gratifying that the enforcement sector that you are infinitely scandalous is already affected by this bill, and I will say a few words about that, which I do not fully understand. Let me get to that. As far as executors are concerned, you may learn from the scandals of Pál Völner, as if you were amending this regulation, because you are talking about the fact that, in the case of executors appointed for an indefinite period before 1 September 2015, a uniform determination of the continuity of the service for a further seven years, public confidence in the executive order of conduct, a little bit, when you see public confidence written down in the interests of the executives, is justified by the government, but only in the event that, after 1 September, the disciplinary court of disciplinary action concerning the executor asking for the continuation of the service has imposed a penalty of no more than two times, one of which was more serious, but none of which was more serious than a written reprimand. Why not zero? I'm just saying it softly. But at least there's some tightening up. And that is a particularly joyful thing, as if they had learned from it, that they might want to introduce a system that works better than a paper bag solution, so that they do not decide in a paper bag next to cars in front of ministries, that their draft law makes it clear that empty executive posts are only available by tender and that an independent court enforcement application for a job cannot be submitted for an empty job. It's a pleasure, though. I would also like to talk about the fact that there are several in this draft law that I personally agree with, and I would like to say a few words about that, but I would just like to start from a little further away. I'll tell you the subject. This, by the way, is the strict or very serious tightening of Elf Bar, although I do not see exactly what the tightening was about, I will have a question anyway. When my friends ask me that there is something the Fidesz government has, I'm sorry, Mr. Nacsa, Fidesz-KDNP government, because, to be exact, KDNP has a high added value, so, with regard to the operation of the Fidesz-KDNP government, I support or like what was introduced, then one of the things I say first is that cigarette tightening in general, and the fact that sales are out of, let's say, the food store counters don't have that you go with the child, and you see the cigarette at the cash register, and you have to tell me what it is, and it's usually that consumption itself has been tremendously tightened up. How much better it is to sit in a restaurant without smoke. Honestly, remembering what it was like was dramatic. So, for example, this is something that I think is particularly joyful, and I congratulate you on your courage when you did that, and that's excellent. I hope that this regulation also goes this way with regard to Elf Barok, so that it cannot be used. I see him nodding, but I have a problem with him, and then let me ask you, I hope he will honor me with his answer, whether this draft law seeks to eliminate the sale of this Elf Barok, because on the Authority's website, this is the Supervisory Authority for certain Controlled Activities, which, of course, I described earlier, I believe that his main activity is what we are, but now I will not reopen the parentheses, so, on the Authority's website, I understood it to be about the fact that the sale of Elf Barok is being completely eliminated. There's an explanation here. At the same time, it is not entirely clear to me that the proposal is going this way or merely forbids these terrible products from being sold outside trades. So it is not clear to me that these horrors will appear in tobacco shops called national, this dangerous product, or are they merely trying to eliminate competition and sell it there. I sincerely hope that it is about not being able to buy such products. I'm saying this as a father, for example. I have three little girls, my big daughter is graduating and applying, and my twins are 15 years old, and I've had the experience of walking with them in Vörösmarty Square, and they've come to us to sell such a terrible thing. So if this law moves towards banning this terrible product, I like it. I'm afraid that's not exactly what it's about, as if it's going to be in the tobacco shops, but I'll look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. To sum up, what I think of this law: well, what I think of many other laws is that here we are, in essence, talking about laws, legislative amendments, and it is very brave to argue and talk about. In fact, I think it is about supporting the people of the economic sectors that NER has already ruled out as the government that supports people, and I have listed who the people you support in this regard are and shape the rules of the economic sectors here in such a way that you can operate according to current interests in this system. That's why it's hard for me to figure things out. [[9.40]] Again, it's hard to say a single voting attitude with a salad law, one of the pitfalls of the salad law. Although, for example, I very much agree with what I just said, the minimum tightening of the horror of Elf Bar, but I hope it is banned. But for the rest of it, I'm sure I'll just be able to vote no. Thank you so much for letting me say all this. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-29-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, A man has a strange feeling here, listening to the debate. The debate between Fidesz-KDNP and the left is, as usual, a recurring, recurring element, that both of them pretend to have been in opposition for the past 32 years or, in other words, as if one were evil incarnate and the other were angelic goodness and justice on the ground. It is a reality, and this is not necessarily a serious negative rating for those currently in parliament, but it is usually typical of Fidesz-KDNP and a significant part of the left that both of them have been dipped, both political constellations have been thoroughly dipping in the stinky swamp of corruption in relation to different business lines and areas of expertise. I can say this as a representative of our country's Movement, as deputy leader of the faction, with full moral authority, since we have not yet governed this country in any form, we have not been involved in governance, so, by definition, there is no such negative perceptions. The bill itself concerns 17 different laws, very strongly salad-like, and in the context of gambling an interesting mud throw started here between Fidesz-KDNP and the left. Then I'll tell you the truth. Before 2012, the so-called gaming machine world, some of which were obviously not all connected to the underworld, and the other part consisted of honest entrepreneurs. According to popular belief, or according to Fidesz-KDNP, the vast amount of untaxed money was taken to support the black and illegal party of MSZP-SZDSZ, carrying the usual amount of gifts. Although the most sophisticated gaming machine entrepreneurs and the largest brought it to both, Fidesz-KDNP was also financed mainly by Fidesz and financed by MSZP or SZDSZ, who was connected to. That was the whole truth. So it does not look like the story, ladies and gentlemen, that one is white and the other is only bathed in sin, and the two political formations received a lot of untaxed black money at that time. Fidesz-KDNP in the period between 2010 and 12 came up with the master plan that, in their view, the MSZP-SZDSZ received more of the black money, so they can smile with war logic, and only so, believe me, they bombed it and invented a regulation with a two-thirds mandate at the time that they channeled all the money, and without exception, 100 percent to themselves. On this they poured a glaze, a garnish that served the protection of society, the protection of young people, and the protection of families. There were, no doubt, part-truth-like elements in this, but the fact is, honourable Members, that those who are sick because they suffer from a disease called gambling will find the possibility of spending money either in online space or in the world of casinos, even taking on a longer journey than they had previously found. Their numbers may have dropped a little, but the one who's really sick is going to live for his passion, he's going to homage, and you can't get him to quit. It is the same addiction as alcoholism, drug addiction, or many other addictions. Of course, this kind of social protection talk sounded good, and many people fell for it, and this is how the regulation was designed accordingly. What we are missing from this long rules on gambling, there are rules on very interesting administrative fines, re-leasing fines, supervisory fees, other less important regulatory elements. We have not read about one thing, and I would like to ask the honourable Deputy Minister whether it is true or not, because this is the better case, so I would like to believe that I am wrong, I would like to be wrong, I would like to be wrong, and we do not now see that casinos are connected to the online cash register system of the NAV, which again confirms our suspicions that huge sums will turn. The worst part is, we don't know how much, we're just guessing: tens of billions of dollars, hundreds of billions of dollars, hundreds of billions of dollars a year? We don't know, because unchecked, it's almost as if they're printing money, and there's so much going on in these casinos. Not to mention that corruption may have an important power supply, because if you think about it, you don't have to be so sophisticated, indeed, who you want to pay with a slightly higher amount of the usual gift, let's say, in casinos, winning the amount corresponding to the given bribe, can be paid practically legally. And since there is no monitoring option, there is virtually no evidence of bribe payment mechanisms. This is a bit more sophisticated than the average, so money is a traditional bag and bag transfer, which is obviously the most dangerous moment of an act of corruption, and if there is an act of corruption, then the parties can have serious consequences, with a sophisticated payment method in a casino, it is easy to put such a story together with a common sense. Well, the beneficiary of corruption won that amount, and Goddess Fortuna smiled at her, the angel of fortune caught up with her, blessed her, and possibly solved the future of her grandchildren. Why are these companies not connected to NAV's online monitoring system? Because political interests are the opposite. So there are political heavyweight, lead-weight players on the other side who have the ability to assert interest that they are not only able to prevent, block, hinder, but also far stronger players. They don't have the guts to mess with any of your ministerial officers. And this is very interesting, because we are living in exactly the times when the extra-profitist, as you call it, or, as Mi Hazank Movement has called it, for a good two years now, it would be very important in the context of the epidemic solidarity tax to tap into those strong buffalo companies that could operate calmly, not ruin or sell their employees, not only for the benefit of certain operators, but also for the benefit of the public, to take their share of the public burden. I'm sure we could find tens of billions of forints, which we could then spend more effectively either on family support or on bled-out education or health care. But you consider these businesses to be sacred cows, and you refuse to put them in such a package of laws on economic regulation. In your opinion, honourable pro-government representatives, because I am turning to you specifically, how fair it is to have a cosmetic or hairdresser working in a small village connected to the online system of the NAV, seeing every single forint of the NAV, digging around in your pocket, and if you don't give me a god, you'll get a check, and then, let's say, you didn't give me an invoice for 30 thousand forints, you'll get a fine that you'll probably have to close the store. This applies to a small village beautician or hairdresser, and casinos producing hundreds of billions of dollars are practically exonerated. It wouldn't matter, because it would be written that full and permanent tax exemption, like in the Middle Ages, is granted as such a noble privilege or privilege to owners of these businesses with such amazing super-legal powers. They don't even have to pay taxes, they don't have to pay anything. The most unfair thing is that the Hungarian Movement considers such an attitude to be unfair, which, to put it mildly, does not serve the requirements of social justice and weakens even further the basic trust in politics, if it can be further weakened. Then let's look at the mining issues. Indeed, they are linked to strong government actors. [[9.50]] Here, interestingly, they consider it important, let us say, to simplify the administrative process and make certain types of procedures easier. I ask you, once again, in the words of the simple voter here, that, in terms of building land, in a simple plot formation, which affects the average mortal on earth very often, why you will not be able to simplify this process; that in our overloaded administration, where underpaid officials do their conscientious work, we should facilitate their situation or help this administration so much that, let's say, in a simple plot formation, in a land consolidation procedure, I would like to give you the simplest example, not to have to go through three or four stations until a plot unification takes place, and not for six to eight to 12 months. Funny, they don't think it's that important there. In the formation of mining sites, they immediately draw up this very important argument, in which, of course, it is true that it should be simplified, but the administration always says that they are only implementing the rules required by Parliament or the ministerial decree or decree. They always throw back these hot potatoes, that they want to simplify the process to the extreme. Let Parliament, the competent minister, and the government make rules that allow them a much simpler procedure. And then there is the law on judicial enforcement without the need for completeness, which could also be discussed and debated for a very long time. It is a real shame that, at the end of the previous term, the Deputy Minister of Justice was discovered, and there was an apology, and as a lawyer, I would like to say that he is up to his neck in the dirty, hundreds of millions or possibly billions of cases of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty led by György Schadl. In more advanced democracies, this is a failure of complete governments, not this, which makes it much smaller or lower scandals, but we are not yet, are we? What happens is that György Schadl can realize hundreds of millions of forints, even if he is in the hive. With other sweaty, decent, legal work, he can't make a small fraction of what Schadl put together during the months he spent in prison. This is happening in an environment in a country where Fidesz-KDNP has governed at least nine out of the last 12 years by two-thirds. During this cycle, voters were given two-thirds of the muscle, and, say, in Croatia, where there has not been such authority of the governing parties there in the last 12 years, people have long been freed from the dangers of legal usury crime under the cover of foreign currency-based credit and from the claws of usury criminals; we are not yet here. It seems that tens of thousands of properties will be auctioned here in a short time, because certain rules are written here in the law on judicial enforcement, but the most important ones will be omitted: until the Völner-Schadl case is clarified, until the investigative authorities have broken the strings, the vast majority of enforcement procedures should be suspended. We should have extended the eviction moratorium, the property auction moratorium and a stronger debt protection than ever before when there is war inflation, when we are just beginning to emerge from a pandemic replacing World War II. The Hungarian citizens, among them many debtors, had to suffer in the last two years, the situation that our grandparents have faced has not been seen since World War II, the former Deputy Minister of Justice has been involved in a corruption scandal to the neck, and you have not felt it important to extend the property auction and eviction moratorium after 15 June until at least 1 November or even much longer, because the pressure on you has become unbearable in this respect and these foreign exchange taxpayers have been given free prey. Tens of thousands of families will be evicted, according to the law of large numbers, at least half of them probably voted for you on 3 April, so they will openly betray them, turning their backs on those voters whose votes they so much admired in the months of January, February and March. But you have seen here, in terms of, say, the outcome of the interim elections, that you will receive feedback on the low-participant interim elections that you will be able to do so, as voters are extremely pleased with you. Believe me, it would be in your best interest to extend these moratoriums. Interestingly, when a heavyweight government player has a need to amend the law, they can push the necessary package of proposals overnight, from one week to the next, there are no barriers, there are no problems. When a simple extension is needed to protect tens of thousands of honest Hungarians, it would not even require legislative and preparatory work, it would only need to change the deadlines, it would be a few series of amendments, and you do not see this as necessary. And one of the worst lies and twists is that this problem has been solved, that the debtors have been rescued, and no one has been left on the side of the road. This is also not true, just as they do not want to follow one of the old proposals of our country, that judicial enforcement should be exclusively put into state power, that these powers should be removed from profit-hungry executive hyenas; unfortunately, this is still to be expected. Let us hope that you will come to your senses soon, and if nothing else, social pressure [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And the anger and anger of the miserable, crippled people will lead you to start thinking in a different direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-29-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give you the floor, Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh, DK Group.
u2022-06-29-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm glad if I can always piss off Congressman Nacsa a little bit. I don't see him in the gym right now, but someone's gonna tell him. So, what I'm suggesting to everyone who thinks they're dealing with any corruption, whether it's subway four or anything else, or KDNP fraction, is to press charges. What is interesting is that you have been in government for 12 years, you have received this OLAF report on metro four, and so far nothing has happened in this case. I would encourage everyone to press charges where they see corruption, and I think it is the duty of the Hungarian authorities to investigate it. Similarly, the Hungarian authority would have had an obligation to investigate, for example, the Elios case. Instead, what did they do? In truly scandalous public lighting cases related to the Prime Minister's son-in-law, this investment from EU funds was rather transferred to Hungarian sources, so that the European Union would not have to account for this matter. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) As far as the City Hall case is concerned, I would like to invite Congressman Nacsa to come to the Park of City Hall, which is now going to be quite well. It can also be seen from the fact that a responsible municipality spends billions of forints on public money to renovate a building or the area before it, it is certain that it will not be sold, and there has never been such an intention. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same for the municipalities led by Fidesz, especially for public and government matters. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-29-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Zoltán Vajda asked for the floor from the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say one sentence, I have a request for the Secretary of State. When you say your locker, make sure you tell me what your plan is for the Elf Bark round pretzels. If the word ban is spoken in your sentence, for example, it would be terribly comforting to me. Please tell me what the plan is. Thank you very much, that's all I have to say.
u2022-06-29-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. That concludes the two-minute speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Deputy Secretary Zsófia Koncz, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Zsófia Koncz:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank everyone, all my fellow Members, for their contributions, in which they have expressed their group's position. Of course, with regard to the proposals made and any amendments that may be tabled, we will look at everything. [[10.00]] Allow me to start with Gy. I should respond to the comments of Mrs Erzsébet Németh, because I must say, I was a little disappointed. I think that it is not really appropriate, in the context of a general debate on such a professional subject, that when you talk about energy security on behalf of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, which I do not think is surprising, because the proposal itself is connected to this, you have to answer it with personalism. If you'll excuse me, that's what I wanted to tell you. I listened very, very carefully to your speech, and I noticed that you may not have mastered the text of the bill itself so thoroughly. We are very, very much looking forward to the textual amendments in this regard. Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Vajda, particularly on smoking. This bill introduces the concept of unauthorised retail trade in tobacco products, and this gives us the opportunity to ban otherwise illegal sales, such as sales with Elf Bar, so I can confirm the word ban. Of course, we are trying to protect our young people, our children. This is a rather new phenomenon, but I think that if the Parliament adopts this bill, the government will be able to take steps very early to reduce this activity. [[Zoltán Vajda: Why don't you move now? The president's ringing the bell.]] That is why we are here, which is why it has been included in this bill, so that Elf Bar and any other similar tobacco products that have already been on the black market are already banned by law. It's a new phenomenon. In his speech, Mr Apáti expressed his request for gambling regulation. Gambling rules now contain the various certification obligations, and this can not only be achieved by linking them to the NAV. The authority is monitoring this right now, but this proposal is otherwise not part of the current bill at the moment. If I may, in summing up the bill, I would like to reiterate the fundamental objectives, the amendments to the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, because the fundamental objectives also concern this activity. With the introduction of legislation in the changing gambling market in line with EU law, we want to bring the players on the market into a legal environment and strengthen the protection of players, thus facilitating the drop-out of illegal players and the clean-up of the market. So that's one of our goals. The authority shall, inter alia, supervise trade in tobacco products. Smoking poses significant public health threats, especially for minors, which has been said several times today. Protecting our children is our common cause and responsibility. The government is committed to maintaining Hungary's energy supply and the aim of the amendment of the Mining Act is primarily to encourage the increase in production, thereby further strengthening the energy sovereignty of Hungary. Thank you again for your participation in the general debate. On behalf of the government, I ask for the support of all the factions for the adoption of the bill and for the achievement of the objectives listed. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-29-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws affecting the financial sector until closure. The government referral is T/363. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-33	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft legislation amending the laws governing the financial sector covers a wide range of regulatory issues, affecting both the credit institutions, the capital markets and the insurance sectors. The provisions ensure, on the one hand, consistency between domestic legislation and EU legislation, and, on the other hand, amend some provisions governing financial intermediaries on the basis of practical needs and enforcement experience. The provisions on so-called sleeping consumer accounts with a negative balance deserve to be highlighted among the financial amendments to the bill. In practice, these accounts often lead to unjustified problems, since the account holder does not terminate the contract, he may have forgotten the existence of the account, and the debt continues to increase for years. This is the situation that the proposed amendment seeks to resolve by allowing the payment service provider to terminate the payment account management contract. Such termination shall take place only after failure of the account holder, with a notice period of two months. If the account holder is deceased, the period of notice shall be extended. Dear Parliament, The bill contains a number of additional legislative amendments. The review of the minimum amount of insurance cover in the field of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance, as provided for by the Directive, is to be carried out every five years in accordance with the European consumer price index, the possibility of initiating the market surveillance procedure of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in the event of suspicion of undue Community financing activities, the possibility of enabling the credit institution to carry out stock-care activities in respect of the stock sold as an insurance intermediary, provided that it no longer prepares a new insurance contract for the competing product concerned by stock management, and, in order to ensure legal consistency, supplementing the coverage of mortgage bonds with claims relating to liquid assets and derivatives, as well as fine tuning the resolution framework of credit institutions and investment firms, which primarily provides clarifications on the assessment of the resolvability obstacles and the elimination of those obstacles. A credit institution or investment firm may be dealt with if the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, acting as a resolution authority, considers that in the course of insolvency proceedings against the institution or resolution of the institution under the resolution plan, the continuity of critical functions can be maintained and significant negative consequences for the stability of the financial intermediary system can be avoided. The MNB, acting in the resolution function, should continuously assess that there are no obstacles to the resolvability of institutions on a specific basis. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us also contains provisions ensuring harmonisation obligations, in particular with regard to the amendment of the law on forms of collective investment and their managers. The essence of this is that the obligation to provide information on retail investment packages and insurance-based investment products should not result in duplication after the preparation of certain documents is required in parallel by two directives. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members that T/363. To discuss and support the regulatory intention set out therein. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2022-06-29-34	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Szeberényi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go. [[10.10]]
u2022-06-29-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The T/363 ahead. The purpose of the bill amending certain laws affecting the financial sector is to fine-tune the laws on the financial, capital and insurance markets, market supervision and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. To this end, it proposes a minor amendment to 11 laws, some of which I would like to highlight in my speech. The reason for amending the law on mortgage credit institutions and mortgage bonds is that strict margin rules should be taken into account in the issue of mortgage bonds with a view to the security of mortgage holders. The amendment to the Capital Markets Act makes it clear that, in the case of a guarantee to the bond, the binding substance of the bond is the guaranteeor's legal statement and signature only if the guarantee is made by a unilateral declaration of law. There is no need for this legislation in the case of a State guarantee when the guarantee is created in the event of the conditions laid down by law. The amendment to the Investment Business Act clarifies that funds can also be invested in portfolio management activities. The law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance needs to be amended because the underlying directive, 2009/103. The minimum amounts of insurance cover under this Directive should be reviewed every five years in accordance with the European Index of Consumer Prices, as the national has said. The amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary clarifies internal references and allows the important aspect of MNB's ability to initiate market surveillance in case of suspicion of unauthorized community financing activities. Dear House, Following the amendment of the Law on certain payment service providers, it will be possible for a payment institution to carry out financial services intermediary activities. On the basis of an amendment to the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises, it will be possible for financial undertakings complying with prudential regulation equivalent to credit institutions to be exempted from certain prudential requirements on an individual basis from their business model, such as a leverage ratio and provisions on the identification, management and control of excessive risk. The provisions of the Act on the further development of a system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system include, in particular, important clarifications regarding the assessment of the resolvability barrier for credit institutions and investment firms and the removal of obstacles. The amendment of the law on forms of collective investment and their managers is the transposition of Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2021 amending Directive 2009/65/EC as regards the use of key information documents by management companies of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. The Directive ensures that the preparation of a key information document on retail investment package products or insurance-based investment products with the same content does not result in duplication on the market. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill before us is for the purposes to be supported, and therefore, in light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-29-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Vajda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-37	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the informal signal that I am preparing. Honestly, I appreciate it, because I'm still practicing the genre here, so thank you so much for letting me know that I'm getting ready. I'll say very briefly, I promise I won't waste your time. Here I have already talked about the fact that there is a mafia state and that there is a rule of law in Hungary and everything. Now, I'm not gonna say things like that about this law, because I'm gonna start at the end of it, and I don't see any reason why we should reject this law. I see this as a professional material, it contains technical amendments, it involves a variety of fine-tunings, it contains harmonisation of laws, and it also introduces changes caused by EU directives. Welcome to the government, Minister Martin the Great, I think it is one of his first products that I think is welcome. It's a bit spicy in the fact that as former vice president of the MNB, it partly amends the MNB Act, but I trust that not only was the preparation of this law in his witch's kitchen, but there was also a starting point within the MNB. So I'm going to start from the end, and I don't see any reason why our faction rejects this, I'm telling you, there are technical or forward-looking proposals and amendments. I'm only going to highlight two of these very briefly, which I like. One of the things that Mr Secretary of State said in his introduction about sleeping accounts is that this could then be abolished. Perhaps we all have this experience in acquaintances or family circles, that they forget about an account, and then many, many months, or even years from now, the financial institution asks with all its debts to terminate it. This is a completely market-like solution that I think, after two months, this can be stopped, I think, in the case of the dead, this time is longer. For example, this is an amendment that is absolutely clear and realistic. I would like to point out, for the sake of a joke, how much I think it is to be supported that, among the mandatory elements of the communication systems, the fax will be removed as an expected means of communication. I think this is realistic in 2022, in the middle of Europe. To sum up, this changes, in principle, the adoption of technical, technical, fine-tuning and legislative harmonisation EU directives and, in part, the MNB Act. For my part, I do not see why we should reject this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-06-29-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the group of our country is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I swear I'm not in the mood to tease you, or I didn't wake up on the wrong foot, and I'm not looking for a knot in the cafe, but I do have to make the picritious remark that there is an extremely interesting situation here in the Chamber. It is very interesting to see how the positions of Fidesz and MSZP or Fidesz and part of the left have been found. Although, no doubt, this is a highly professional proposal, driven by compliance and technical aspects with EU directives on harmonisation, I am trying to obtain some political content from it, and I do not have to go into fantasy analyses when, in the way mentioned above, we are living in such difficult times. We have found ourselves facing restrictions, measures and bans that have not been experienced since World War II in the last two years, even in Parliamentary Chambers and in everyday life, then we have seen that the banking sector and credit institutions in Hungary have made outstanding profits not only in Europe but also in the world. I could say, in an agricultural term, that Hungary is an excellent place of production for financial institutions, here all the conditions and all the opportunities for financial institutions to acquire extraporfices are really favourable. In comparison, we may not even see, in the remote future, that, by the end of this cycle, at least the preparation of a manly extra-profit tax would be included in this proposal, or, as we call it, an epidemic solarity tax. This kind, the greater involvement of the financial sector in the burden-sharing, the banks would be expected, and there would have been no obstacle to, say, putting it in this package. Or, if we are already in the protection of people, voters and ordinary citizens, it might be worth considering that, in the present context, the limit or threshold of the OBA's responsibility to date would be raised significantly, even by at least 50 percent, for at least a temporary period until the war is over, and the conditions around the forint will not be more favourable, so the forint will not be increased and inflation will not decrease in a clear way with the naked eye. [[10.20]] In addition, the forint is weakening so much compared to the euro that, while this EUR 100 thousand was a threshold of HUF 35-36 million even a year ago, it is now 40 million forints, which in this sense can be described as a positive one. However, we cannot be happy that this has been achieved at the cost of weakening the forint. It would be worth raising this ceiling to EUR 150 000 for a transitional period at least. And that is quite strange, and in this respect I would go on where I left off in the previous keynote speakership, I could say that I deliberately left the law on the enforcement of the court at the end of the previous lead speaker because I believe that credit institutions, the banks, feel very well, just without calling it into the Chamber as a lawyer, without being an economist, it is possible to understand with common sense that the continuous increase in the central bank base rate, which is linked to the current domestic and international environment, could easily mean or result in the result of the same forint-based loans as the result of exchange rate risk for foreign currency-based loans, or the loss of the exchange rate of HUF-Swavic franc or HUF-euro for debtors. Forint-based lending seemed to be favourable until the central bank base rate was at a historic low point, but as it began to rise in the last half-year, it could be of great concern, and in the case of non-mortgage loans, the rates of interest on traditional, free use or consumer loans are still abnormally high. So, in our opinion, this is a serious threat for debtors, and here we do have to get involved or intervene in these situations through strict state-law measures, because obviously, we have fellow countrymen who have an inadequate sense of danger, but then we have to orientate them, and whether they are in line with the conditions of earnings or with the regulation of banks, we have to stop them from regenerating forint-based loans from the same situation that we have experienced with foreign exchange-based loans. I use the term foreign currency on purpose, because many people simply call it foreign currency lending. Foreign currency lending was in the literal sense barely carried on in Hungary, since in the vast majority of cases the person who took these loans received these loans not in Swiss francs or in euro, but in forints. If you like, many Hungarian people have become victims of a virtual trick, and I don't want to repeat it now there are so far-reaching consequences that most of the time their family homes or apartments, which represent one property or one property of more serious value, are in danger. We will also experience the same in forint-based loans if we do not limit retail information and the possibilities of borrowing to the minimum, or we do not provide for appropriate regulations for always-hungry banks and credit institutions. At a time when there has never been an unprecedented rise in real estate prices, but rather a property price explosion, a property in less frequent parts of the country, which has previously not been very valuable, can be a fine piece of property for banks or factor companies or executives who are always ready to jump when money and property are to be outsourced from people. Then, at the end of the regulation, there are a few lines of insurance activity that can be considered technically technical. I could also say that there is nothing special, or we could go through all of this, but I cannot keep to myself the observation that I lack the feeling that, say, in relation to agricultural insurance activities or agricultural insurance, why not start if not in this proposal or start a comprehensive regulatory change. After all, the production of healthy food has become a more important strategic sector, and from a national security point of view it is of paramount importance that Hungary be as self-sufficient as possible. Our productive lands, our talents would allow this, but at the same time we have to face weather risks that our grandfathers, even our fathers, couldn't meet. I am thinking that the month of June, which we are slowly leaving behind, has been the most desperate June of the last 120 years, and at that time we have not yet talked about the serious damage to Hungarian farmers caused by the various storms, ice damage or spring frost damage at the beginning of the year. And I say this not only for the protection of farmers, of course, but also for the fact that if we cannot produce adequate food materials in the country as much as possible, then there can be very serious supply disruptions more severe than ever before. The agricultural insurance system, which I lacked here, would greatly help Hungarian farmers in these extreme weather years, because let's be honest, even at the moment, even in terms of the level of state aid or public contribution, to make agricultural insurance so incredibly expensive that practically no one can do this except for the large farmers. You can formally say that there is an opportunity to examine market products, and here you are, dear Hungarian farmers, to conclude insurance contracts; but the reality is that these insurances have been so expensive and not cheap in the first place, that if we do not reach under the farmers' arm, obviously, either in cooperation with the agricultural purse or mostly in cooperation with the agricultural purse, they will not in practice conclude many agricultural insurance contracts. Not to mention that what I just said about foreign exchange-based loans or forint-based loans in relation to banks can be said about the same thing in relation to insurance companies, and respect for the rare exception. To mention a soccer parallel here in the Chamber, it is about what Gary Linker, the excellent English football player, used to say about football, that football is a game where twenty-two people chase the ball and the Germans always win at the end. There are still serious partial truths to this, but the same can be transposed to the bank's and debtor's and insurance and insurance policy. There is such a huge difference in dominance that it seems to be a game that in the end 99 percent of cases the bank always wins, or the insurance company is always right. I would like to give you a number of examples of the extremely bad faith in the insurance market, say in the agricultural insurance segments, if I wanted to use a slightly stronger term, then it should have been said that insurance companies have snuck out in a mean, cynical, impertinent way at a time when serious farmers, decent farmers, after they paid their insurance premiums, should have reimbursed a large part of the damage or damage. But they've always found those loopholes that they won that game in the end, so the insurance companies won it. In this regard, therefore, when banks and insurers have such excellent conditions of production, at least in these difficult times and in difficult years, whether the epidemic is a solidarity tax or, as you call it, extra-profitor, it would be appropriate to come up with a debt-friendly, debt-protection or insurance protection package, in this case, because social conditions have changed to such an extent, it has had an impact on the international level or on Hungary that it is necessary to give a fundamental consideration to the rules that you may have thought to be good. They have not been so effective so far, but let us now be even more wrong or act, create laws for the benefit of debtors, for the far weaker player, or for the policyholders in the market for key agricultural insurance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-29-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you are, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, you have the floor. [[10.30]]
u2022-06-29-41	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to my fellow Members, who have adopted and assessed the draft legislation, which is particularly professional and professionally motivated, with professional motivation and professional content. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we fully agree that we are living in extraordinary and difficult times. Besides the borders of the country, there is a war going on, we are going through an epidemic, we are inevitably part of a global inflation and recession process. Accordingly, the government's economic measures must always be very, very up-to-date and always respond first and foremost to the challenges that come to our table every day. Accordingly, I agree with Mr Apáti in a number of respects that the issues he has raised deserve special attention, even because not only the global economic processes affecting the whole world, but, for example, the meteorological consequences you mentioned, and the consequences of droughts affecting a significant part of the country, must be taken into account. We'll monitor them and, if necessary, intervene. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, over the past decade, the government has always acted accordingly, and at the time, we have taken the measures that the opposition has, of course, debated and found insufficient in terms of its task and attitude, but I believe that its existence and its impact have never been disputed by you. I am thinking, for example, of the asset manager, of the measures that have been taken so far with regard to the forint, and I am thinking of the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers that you recall in many contexts. I would also like to ensure that, using my fellow Members and the opportunity to speak, the voters who are monitoring our work are aware of these circumstances and that we take economic measures accordingly. However, the bill before us is, in particular, as Mr Vajda has said, legislative harmonisation provisions, technical provisions, and measures that you have adopted in a professional way, which I do not see as an obstacle to supporting. I would therefore like to thank you for your contributions and ask you to support the adoption of the draft law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-29-42	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment can be tabled tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. A general debate on the draft legislation on general rules for compliance with accessibility requirements for products and services will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/365. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I give the floor to Mr Attila Philip, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, the serious legacy of disability, the serious legacy of communism, is that people with disabilities have often been kept locked away from society in hundreds of institutions on the outskirts of settlements. They believed that they could not participate in society's everyday life. This has hindered the development of a meaningful dialogue on disability. We want society to treat disability as naturally as possible and to accept them in every city and community, as this is a matter for society as a whole. Living with disabilities and needing help can still produce value, so people with disabilities need to see opportunity and not lack. The key to success in the area of disability is a common cause and a common will, so instead of giving charity, we are building on autonomy and self-esteem. Dear House, The most important thing for people with disabilities is not to receive empty, ill - formulated compassion, but to help them to live on their own. For this, we believe primarily in ensuring accessibility and self-employment from the government, which is why we are working. The Government of Hungary is committed to promoting the provision of products and services that all persons can obtain to the fullest extent possible, regardless of their disability. The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure that the rules of Directive 2019/882 of the European Parliament and of the Council on accessibility requirements for products and services are transposed. The Directive aims to approximate the laws of the Member States on accessibility, thereby ensuring the free movement of accessible products and services within the EU internal market. The directive not only aims to help people with disabilities but also to help people with all their functional limitations, such as older people, pregnant women or simply those travelling with luggage. Accordingly, the bill sets out accessibility requirements for products and services, which are essentially based on five main aspects. The first is accessibility, which means that content should be made available in text formats that can be used to create alternative supporting formats so that they can be displayed in different ways. The second is perception, which means that it must be displayed through more than one sensory channel in a way that is noticeable to users. Third, the ability to function. The operating units of products and services shall be located within the range of motion of all users. Fourthly, understanding that information on products or services should be presented in a clear manner. This should cover the provision of alternatives to visual, acoustic, oral and tactical communication elements. And fifth, the controls. Accordingly, it should be avoided, for example, that the product needs to be operated with significant effort and that the use of the product should avoid causing seizures to the consumer due to photosensitivity. The product must protect the privacy of the user while using accessibility features. If a response is required within a specified period of time, they shall alert the user through several sensory channels or shall not require activation of an accessibility feature in order to enable the user requiring such a characteristic to turn them on. Dear House, As a legal obligation, the bill further provides that an economic operator may only place on the market products other than micro-enterprises and only provide services that comply with the accessibility requirements of the Act and that the economic operator ensures the continuous training of workers in order to ensure adequate provision of accessible products and services. [[10.40]] Thirdly, the service provider shall assess and document the extent to which the service provided by it complies with the requirements of this Act. The documentation shall be made public in written and oral form, accessible to disabled persons. Dear House, Under the Directive, the legislation covers products placed on the market after 28 June 2025, such as retail hardware systems, operating systems intended for them, self-service terminals such as payment terminals, ATMs, ticket machines, check-in vending machines, self-service information terminals, interactive electronic consumer terminal equipment, consumer terminal equipment used for access to interactive audiovisual media services and e-book readers. On the other hand, the following services provided after 28 June 2025: electronic communications services, services providing access to audiovisual media services, the provision of information on air, coach, rail and water passenger services other than urban, suburban and regional transport services: websites, mobile device-based services, e-tickets and electronic ticket sales services, passenger services, interactive self-service terminals. It is therefore clear from the above that the bill seeks to ensure the accessibility of widely used products and services that meet the specific needs of persons with disabilities due to their original design or subsequent amendment. Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, The government supports all initiatives that serve accessibility and that bring people closer to full life in all areas of life. Hungary has already taken a number of measures to this end. The National Disability Programme 2010-2025, which sets out the main long-term objectives of disability policy, devotes a specific chapter to accessibility, which does not provide for permanent, ex post accessibility of buildings and services, but the universal planning that can be implemented in advance. Mandatory accessibility for public institutions is required by the Disability Rights Act. Accessibility has gained a whole new content over the last decade. Today we are talking not only about physical accessibility, but also about so-called infocommunication accessibility. This means installing tools and solutions that allow people with visual or hearing impairments and intellectual disabilities to access a service other than disabled people. A good example of this approach is the project, which is developed as a sign language interpreter service, to spread the technique and methodology of video interpretation. The development improves the independent accessibility of public services by allowing administration without the presence of an external third party. In the same way, the project with a budget of HUF 4 billion, in which the project with the involvement of national disability advocacy organisations opens up opportunities in Hungary today for our visually impaired, hearing impaired or mentally disabled countrymen who have not previously been. Dear House, During the decade behind us, there has been a paradigm shift in attitudes towards people with disabilities and even the nature of disability. As a result of this change of approach, modern disability does not consider people with disabilities to be persons in need of the benefit of the majority society, but is an equal and equivalent member of society who, above all, can rely on the help of non-disabled persons to live their lives with the greatest possible autonomy they need. It is always of particular importance when the Parliament negotiates a proposal concerning people with disabilities. We can only succeed in any disability situation if it appears as a joint matter, as a common will. I ask you to support the bill. Dear House, Thank you for listening.
u2022-06-29-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gergely Tapolczai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-45	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary adopted the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities second in the world in 2007. If we look at this together with the associated optional protocol, Hungary is the first in the world to ratify this convention. The Convention sets out a number of principles. One of the most important principles is accessibility and the States signatory to the Convention undertake to take all appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures to implement the rights set out in this Convention, including appropriate measures to ensure adequate, accessible and equal access. This is linked to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on accessibility requirements for products and services, which entered into force on 27 June 2019. The Directive imposes an enforcement obligation on Member States to implement the provisions contained therein. The legislative provisions transposing the Directive shall apply in the Member States from 28 June 2025. By contrast, operators will be granted a transitional period until 28 June 2030. This is accompanied by the proposal for a law before us, as according to the directive, accessibility requirements must be introduced in such a way as to minimise the burden for economic operators and Member States. It should also be seen that the number of persons with disabilities is projected to increase significantly. This is accompanied by an increase in demand for accessible products and services, which is already high. An environment where products and services are more accessible makes society more inclusive and promotes the independent living of people with disabilities. The aim of the Directive is to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market and to increase the availability of accessible products and services in the internal market and to improve the availability of important and necessary information. The Directive supports the full and equal participation of persons with disabilities in society by improving access to the products and services concerned. The obligations laid down in the Directive require the definition of accessibility requirements and the continued maintenance of accessibility. The universal design principle is one of the most important and most mentioned principles in relation to the accessibility of products and services. This means designing products, the environment, programmes and services that allow them to be as accessible to all people as possible. [[10.50]] Accordingly, the Directive is also based on obstacles. Thus, not only was it intended to help people with special disabilities, but also to help people with all their functional limitations, such as the elderly, pregnant women or those travelling with luggage. This is also supported by the bill when it states that products must be designed and manufactured in such a way that people with disabilities are expected to be able to use them as much as possible; as far as possible, information about their operation and accessibility characteristics should be provided within the products or on the product. It also lays down that, in order to ensure that services can be used as much as possible by persons with disabilities, the accessibility of the products used in the provision of the service should be ensured and information should be provided on the operation of the service as well as on their accessibility features and the possibilities for cooperation with support tools and support functions. With regard to the bill, I would like to say that this will be a framework law on the basis of the directive, so that the sectors concerned will continue to establish their own legislation on the basis of the directive. I would like to stress that it is a huge milestone in the area of disability that economic operators and their employees, identified in the personal scope of the bill, can also learn about the needs and aspects of people with disabilities and the process of implementing accessibility itself, since, if the bill is adopted, economic operators can only place on the market products other than micro-enterprises and only provide services that comply with the accessibility requirements of the law. Furthermore, the economic operator ensures continuous training of workers in order to ensure adequate provision of accessible products and services. Before I was a Member, I was managing the national advocacy organisation of deaf and hearing persons, and I am currently a member of the presidency at the same organisation. In this capacity, I also welcome the fact that the bill explicitly mentions cooperation with representative organisations. Furthermore, as a person affected by deaf and sign language users, I consider it important that the draft specifically covers sign language as an element of accessibility. It is very important and positive and forward-looking that the draft law designates an authority to monitor the obligation of economic operators on the accessibility of products and certain services, as this may increase legal certainty and awareness of rights. It makes it clear where an application may be made in the event of failure. This is particularly important for disadvantaged or hindered social groups. Here's an observation. The draft law is 8. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 3, I quote:. If, as a result of the verification, the control authority determines that the service does not comply with the accessibility requirements, it may, in its warning decision, call on the injured economic operator to comply with the legislation and initiate a consultation on the deadline for the operator concerned to address the deficiencies identified by the inspection. I would suggest that the audit authority should not be able to call on the infringer, but to call on him to comply with the legislation, since the legislation must be complied with, and not only can we comply with it if we want to. Whoever it is, the authority calls for the termination of the infringement and compliance with the law. Furthermore, I think it is important that in the wording of the draft law, comprehensible information should be defined more precisely, since there is a different meaning for everyone; easy communication for people with intellectual disabilities, information is important, while for people with autism, it is a well-defined series of symbols that helps people to understand information. Finally, some thoughts on micro-enterprises. According to the definition laid down in the directive and the bill, micro-enterprises are undertakings with fewer than ten employees whose annual turnover does not exceed EUR 2 million. Due to their limited competitiveness and disproportionate administrative burden, the Directive also exempts micro-enterprises from the requirements under the Directive, so the bill also exempts domestic micro-enterprises. However, the Directive also states that all micro-enterprises should be encouraged to produce, import or market products and to provide services that meet accessibility requirements under this Directive in order to improve their competitiveness and growth potential in the internal market. Member States should therefore provide guidance and provide micro-enterprises with tools to facilitate the application of national measures transposing this Directive. In this connection, I would consider it important that the bill also refers to this in some form or aims to help, while exempting from accessibility requirements, to encourage small businesses to participate in this market segment, increasing the capacity of society to accept it. To sum up, we have a very important and forward-looking bill, which, although it will only enter into force in 2025, gives the stakeholders time to prepare, we hope will involve a significant number of economic operators in the world of accessibility, equal access, thereby broadening the range of accessible products and services and helping to further improve the independent living and quality of life of disabled people and other social groups. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I support the same with the adoption of the bill and possible consideration of my proposals.
u2022-06-29-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me begin by saying here from the author's side that it is a legacy of communism. Well, the Horthy era wasn't known for making the daily lives of people with disabilities particularly accessible. So I think it's a nobler matter than to include an actual political or perhaps malicious sentence. [[11.00]] There is a proposal before the Parliament that is EU legislation and should be applied to the legal order and relations in Hungary. The aim of the bill on general rules for compliance with accessibility requirements for products and services is to ensure a more harmonious functioning of the internal market in the European Union and to help businesses, people with disabilities and the elderly. In an ageing society, and this is true of Hungarian society, this kind of life-saving, legal order is the emotional duty of the current government and of all well-spoken people. It is important that computers and operating systems or, for example, ATMs, ticketing machines, check-in machines, interactive, self-service information terminals, smartphones, digital televisions, e-books, e-commerce, emergency calls for example for 112, the demand for passenger transport should be more accessible and easier to handle. Access to these services should be ensured more widely than previously. But let's see what we're talking about. According to the basic understanding of accessibility, it means creating an environment for people with physical, mental and sensory disabilities that helps them to travel without barriers, to find their way around them and to do all the activities in which they are prevented because of their disability. This can benefit all of us, including those who care for people with disabilities. It should be taken into account that other help is needed by a weak - looking or blind fellow human being, and that a poorly - hearing fellow man needs someone else. In Hungary, we are now withholding the possibility of browsing the web from at least 300,000 people. Of the billions of websites in the www. system, only 20 percent adapt and provide the opportunity for full browsing and use of the service. For those of you who are looking at us, understand that we are talking about making a bigger letter, setting it on the brightness, having a reading program, subscribing the videos, or turning off the sound, clicking on a phone number should automatically make a call so that we do not have to remember this number or copy it somewhere else and so on. Calling a taxi, ordering a ticket or any product, even facilitating shopping in a webshop, sometimes means making life easier, and the Democratic Coalition considers this a priority. It is important to receive support for these transformations so that this transformation, accessibility, does not cost too much money to companies and service providers. Where appropriate, accessibility may be transport, or even packaging of a purchased product, and must be accessible to download all documents, including an invoice. EU law includes the need to monitor accessibility and provide training for the preparation of these websites, but also for call reception centres employees. It is the government's duty to designate the inspection body and to comply with the requirements of the Directive and to ensure that the bill provides for a far-reaching entry into force on 28 June 2025. This gives you the opportunity to convert, but it only seems to be a remote target date at first. In view of the fact that the websites of every internet service provider, any company selling anything must be accessible, it will be no small task to carry out this work, moreover, the EU does not set this requirement for micro-enterprises with a certain income and fewer than ten employees. It would be worth taking into account the government's involvement in this. This would create market opportunities for them, and there is no criterion that a disabled person should not be in contact with a micro company when he needs such a service. According to the Democratic Coalition, this work must be carried out, started immediately, and the necessary human, technical and financial resources must be provided by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-06-29-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A rare moment, I agree with Zsolt Gréczy, we are not here today for a political debate on this agenda. There have been many today, and perhaps there will be, in which we have been able to hold a political debate, but this is a matter that I think is above parties and parliamentary horseshoes, which is important to enjoy our support. We are committed to improving the situation, quality of life and labour market opportunities of our fellow countrymen with disabilities. We are convinced that our disabled fellow workers are just as valuable and important to society as healthy and healthy people. The Fidesz-KDNP government has already done a lot to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities and to promote their daily well-being. For example, in 2020 the Parliament adopted the amendment of the Hungarian Sign Language Act, which is a positive change in the lives of deaf and highly hearing workers with changed working skills. In order to ensure that our fellow countrymen with disabilities are not excluded from society, there is a great need for their acceptance and support on the part of society. In this process of acceptance and integration and reintegration, it is important for people with changed working skills to be able to work, compared to their opportunities and abilities, to participate as many of them as possible in the world of work. As is true for the majority society, so is the case for people with disabilities: if there is work, there is everything, if there is no work, there is nothing, so we help people with reduced contributions, tax incentives and rehabilitation programs. About 44 percent of the 360,000 persons living in Hungary who have changed working age, 155 thousand people, are in employment, which is a significant increase compared to 18 percent in 2011 compared to 65 thousand people. Thus, under national Christian Democratic governance, employment of people with disabilities has doubled, while more than 50 percent of people with disabilities are still not working. The priority is to increase the level of employment of people with disabilities, and Minister Sándor Pintér also spoke about this at his ministerial hearing. He set a goal for the Ministry of Interior for the next four years, for the management of the territory and for the entire government, so that we could make progress in this. With the bill before us, we can take another step towards our disabled fellow citizens by transposing into the Hungarian legal order Directive 2019/882 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on European Union accessibility requirements. The Directive aims at the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to accessibility, this time the free movement of accessible products and services within the EU internal market. The directive aims to help not only people with disabilities, but also all persons with limited functionality, elderly people, pregnant women, package travelers and others. The draft legislation plans to transpose the content of the directive into domestic law as a framework law. The legislative provisions transposing the directive in the Member States therefore I say to Mr Gréczy that they will apply in all Member States from 28 June 2025, not only in our Member States, but also as a general EU directive. After the entry into force of the legislation, an economic operator may only place on the market a product and only provide services that comply with the requirements of the law on accessibility. The economic operator shall ensure continuous training of workers in order to ensure adequate provision of accessible products and services. The service provider shall assess and document the extent to which the service provided by it complies with the accessibility requirements under this Act. The documentation shall be made public in written and oral form and shall be accessible to persons with disabilities. The bill aims to establish a framework for accessibility requirements for people with disabilities in their daily lives, which will be supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-29-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, honourable House, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Lőrinc Nacsa is heading for the expert box.]]
u2022-06-29-51	Mr President, Dear House, Let us take this moment of grace, and I hope that our fellow Member Nacsa will stay with us, because I would like to praise him now. I hope that this is the bill in which all parties in Parliament and I hope that all their representatives can agree. I'm a little bitter, to be honest. We are talking about an extremely important subject, but we are also talking about the transposition of an EU directive and EU decisions, and indeed this is happening with a very generous deadline. [[11.10]] At the same time, we see that there is a very serious problem and a very dramatic situation in Hungary, and not only in the circles of people with disabilities, but also in the general context of our fellow countrymen with disabilities, but also in the wider context of the problems of very wide social groups from child to old man. Typically, we talk about these when a decision or transposition of an EU directive decided abroad takes place. While these fellow countrymen live with us every day, and the amazing problems they face, for most of us even with the greatest empathy may sometimes be unacceptable, because we are talking about rock-hard living situations here, but I would be careful not to narrow down this circle solely to those with altered working abilities that we are talking about, it's not just about them at all. I agree with Lurch Nacsa that it is good to increase the proportion of people with disabilities who are active in employment. It is good that this is not done by a hard, strict compulsion, but, let us say, by motivations and various, encouraging tools and preferences. At the same time, I would like to warn you that in many cases today's decisions will decide whether someone will become a disabled fellow countryman who is incapable of active employment or can find, for example, a child with special educational needs after the appropriate employment and development years, a job activity that can enrich Nacsa Lőrinc's statistics. So we cannot do that we are not spending enough money on the institutional system, the development network, and we are waiting, waiting, waiting, and we believe that these percentages will improve on their own, and this is not the case. I specifically asked you for 1 percent in the budget debate for the development system for children with special educational needs. I have not yet received a reaction to this, and I trust that in this debate, when we talk about obligations imposed on companies, most of the time about the right obligations, we talk about how a webshop or an Internet site works and is right, let's talk about them, but we do not talk enough about the responsibility of the government at all and about the budgetary decisions. When I asked for 1 percent, what was I thinking? We've looked at the expectations of VAT, which will be over 1,600 billion more than in the previous year. We said that we asked for 10% of this for the benefit of families raising children, so besides basic food, we asked for a reduction in the VAT duration of child-rearing articles. Let us continue the debates on what type of VAT reduction is, how to guarantee that it will also result in price reductions, and I am open to these debates, and I am open to them. But what I can see is that we asked for 10 percent, not of the money in the register, but of the extra that you would like to collect in addition, and we also asked for 1 percent of the serious billions we are talking about in this case, too, to modernise the institutional system for the development of children with special educational needs, to premise and guarantee decent benefits for those who work in it. Because of family involvement, I can see perfectly what shortcomings this institutional system has. I can see perfectly that when a pedagogical assistant or a medical educator is expected to stay on the field, this cannot be expected with a salary of HUF 180,000; it can not even be expected to award the HUF 9-40,000 extra money that can be hijacked. If the Government of Hungary does not invest more money and enough money in this institutional system, this institutional system will be even more empty, even less attention will be paid to a child, but if they go to an average education conference in North-East Hungary, it turns out that there are six-in-a-half hours a week for children to be employed in Logopedia. Everyone can estimate the effectiveness of this on their own. And if these children do not receive the care and occupation they need, they will appear in this statistics as adults at best, while in worse cases they will be left out and obviously need social transfers for the rest of their lives. What I would like to say from this is that we have a very serious responsibility for giving these fellow countrymen all the help they need in the most important, sensitive years, and I agree with you that all our countrymen deserve attention in this respect. The EU decision, however, does not impose strict obligations on companies with 10 employees, but I recommend that you consider that if you encounter any form, whether it is a visually impaired person or any other disabled person, such as micro-enterprises, small businesses, websites, stores and the others, we extend the requirements that allow you to manage and take different steps that are accessible. However, we can also see that it has indeed been said much more widely that this debate should be opened to home care and all other social spheres. I am self-critical that this proposal and the general debate of this proposal would break up these frameworks, not necessarily suitable for this, but I would ask the Government of Hungary to continue these debates, not just focus on the living conditions of the disabled. It's a very important area, but it's part of the whole area. Give all our fellow countrymen in need of assistance the support that all our countrymen deserve in their own right to receive, and, if appropriate, be a little more courageous in expressing additional requirements for our fellow countrymen with disabilities. We're talking hundreds of thousands of people. Indeed, it is untenable that, in the case of different websites, we still have to argue, otherwise in the middle of the Internet age, whether these different requirements are met or not. So I wish the government a little more courage. Let us not only go after the EU directives, but let us put these questions at the heart of our interest, and let us talk about them much more bravely, much more often. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-29-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Vajda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I'm trying to talk slower and less ruggedly, unlike my custom, so that the interpreter-college can follow my pace. Indeed, this is a wonderful moment when, I think, we will be able to vote together. For my part, I look forward to following the voting behaviour of the KDNP fraction in voting on this law. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] My colleague Nacsa tells me to follow it again, not if it serves the country's interests by a majority, but let's not open it to this law now. I can't wait to get a big, fat yes on this one. At the same time, let me make a small, perhaps accentuated clarification or comment. In fact, in the introduction of Mr. Secretary of State, I have heard words that Mr. Gréczy said that I am not sure they are relevant, but there is one that I have heard less, and I think it is worth saying in detail in this House that this is only the clarification that it is the directive of the European Union and of the European Parliament, which gives rise to this bill. I have heard very few times Mr Secretary of State say that the European Union and the European Parliament. There's no need to be afraid to say this, I don't think it's painful. What happened here? The European Parliament held a plenary session in Strasbourg and adopted the European Accessibility Directive, according to which, in addition to infrastructure developments, technical tools and services should be made available to some 80 million citizens living with disabilities in the European Union. The European Accessibility Directive also aims to remove barriers to the internal market for certain, mainly digital, products. Here is an example that computers, operating systems, smartphones and e-books, digital television equipment and e-commerce, transport and banking services, television broadcasting and telephone services will gradually become accessible in the future. I'll give you an example, let's say e-book readers should have the technology to convert text into speech. In addition to improving the daily lives of people with disabilities, this new EU directive also aims to encourage businesses to provide innovative products and services to all. It is just a small footnote to this directive, and I will end my comment with this in essence: this directive is about standardising the requirements of EU Member States and transposing rules to facilitate the functioning of the EU internal market. [[11.20]] It should be noted only quietly that the entry into force of this deadline was scheduled for 28 June 2022. I understand that it was 25e, but its adoption, June 28, 22nd, and if I look at my watch, it was just yesterday, but it should be so bad that, as a Member State of the European Union, it succeeds in transposing the legislation into domestic law just at the last moment or after the last moment. I very much hope that this is no more impertinence on the part of the government which is currently leading my country to break up the unity of the EU. If we are one day late or a few days late, there should be no greater harm in terms of EU unity. And finally, I would like to say that my colleague Gréczy indicated that he did not think there were appropriate words in Mr. Secretary of State's exposé. I heard another one at the beginning, several times. You were talking about people with consistent disabilities. I think we should be careful of the words, they are not disabled, they are fellow humans with disabilities or with help from fellow humans living with us. At least do it on this subject, my dear Secretary of State, because I think words have power and need to be taken care of. If they finally allow a few sentences of personal story about why it is important to relate to our disabled fellow humans. I was a relatively small child in the early eighties, and maybe I was 6-7 years old when I went to dinner with a very nice family friend, family, at a restaurant. By the way, the dear mother, Aunt Eve, lived in a wheelchair, lost her ability to move her feet in polio, so she lived in a wheelchair, and so we went to a restaurant where we all ordered dinner at the waiter, and Aunt Eve was the last one left. The waiter asked the others, "What does he want?" I was six to seven years old, and I cried out loud: only her feet didn't work, Aunt Eve's mouth worked! Our fellow humans with disabilities are the same fellow humans, some of whom may not work, but they need to be protected in the same way. So please, Mr. Secretary, don't call fellow people with disabilities disabled. And by the way, as I have indicated, I look forward to having my colleague Nacsa and I agree to this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-29-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congressman Gergely Tapolczai asked for the floor.
u2022-06-29-55	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This is indeed a moment of mercy, a matter of grace, as has been said several times in previous years. This is a topic that is not a left-wing or right-wing subject, but a topic that is above all the factions of the Parliament and the factions. We all agree on that. There has been a statement from my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, that the situation is dramatic. In view of the given moment, the particular situation, the particular expectations, it can be said that in one way or another, how bad the situation is, how difficult it is, but as a person concerned, I say that if we look back 20 to 30 years ago at where we started, we can say that the situation is better light years ago than it was 30 years ago. I know what I'm talking about, believe me. A lot of my fellow people with disabilities also know what I'm talking about. The wording on the European Union has also been said by my fellow Member Zoltán Vajda. I dare say that Budapest and Hungary are more advanced in this regard than other EU Member States, for example in transport. Budapest is by far the most barrier-free; far more accessible, such as Brussels. In terms of media services, for example, Hungary is better off than many countries in terms of subtitles and interpretation. So, in many respects, we are far ahead; and because of the end of my time, I will continue to comment later.
u2022-06-29-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not possible, Congressman, to speak once again after his two-minute speech, because only one Member from one faction in one block has the opportunity to do so. So we could only help that if someone spoke in the debate. I therefore ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. I can't help but close the general debate. I would like to ask Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2022-06-29-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and, above all, I would like to thank this House, ladies and gentlemen, for their contributions. In the beginning, I asked that we be able to succeed in the case of people with disabilities, the cause of people with disabilities, if this is a common cause and a common will, so I would like to thank you for the contributions made in the last half hour, in the last hour. I would like to add two points, which are substantive. One of the points raised by Mr Tapolczai, and I think that this is an important part of the bill is that the adoption of the bill does not end the work, since the bill 9. § 3 of the Act empowers the Government to lay down detailed rules in a regulation which relate specifically to the operation of the control authority, to control, enforcement, the establishment of administrative sanctions, and the payment of administrative fines, so that this is complete. But, of course, together with this, we have welcomed and will continue to do all the constructive and important proposals so far. The sentence raised by Congressman Gréczy, which has been raised here several times. If I had that opportunity here, I'd be happy to answer it in two sentences, because I think that might be the most important issue in the whole disability issue. The sentence did not contain any actual political charge, but it is a matter of fact that when we talk about this matter or any social issue, the institutional heritage that we have is derived from what and what decisions it comes from. We can easily bring the situation of people with disabilities here. More than 20,000 people have spent their lives in institutions of such size in previous decades, which has been an obstacle to an otherwise meaningful and meaningful dialogue. Dániel Z. Karpát also said that we should continue the debates. When people are raised away from settlements and not in families, we can also bring children's protection here, the system had the right to build large institutions and not to keep children in small micro-communities and families. That's why we had a lot of big children's towns. Today we say that more than two thirds of children live in foster homes, because the small community results in better inclusion. The same is true for people with disabilities, a small institution is no longer an institution, but a subsidised housing is suitable for carrying out discussions on disability matters, a 300-person institution is less. That's what I say when I say it's a legacy. I think this is a policy issue, and this also makes it difficult to take out the issue of disability. And what has come up here from Congressman Vajda, I think that the fact that he is disabled or disabled is not offensive, I think that it is safe to ask interest organisations about this. This is precisely the absence of being afraid to say that word, because it was not natural before, as it was in many societies. I don't think that's something to be afraid of. We don't regret naming it by name. I'd protect everyone from the term "disabled" because I think it's less good. No one is offended by the disabled or the disabled. Once again, thank you all very much for your comments. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-29-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2023 until its closure. The government referral is T/360. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. [[11.30]] For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, As you know, the government has submitted to Parliament a draft law on the central budget of 2023, which will be a budget for the government and the government. It focuses on protecting the stability and achievements of families, jobs and the Hungarian economy and keeping the economy on a safe growth path. The corona virus epidemic, the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war and the Brussels sanctions policy have also led to an unprecedented economic situation throughout Europe. In this exceptional economic situation, the objective and task of the civilian government remains to follow an independent, value-based economic policy that serves the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary. The aim of the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2023 is to establish the legislative and regulatory frameworks that are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of Hungary's central budget law in 2023. Accordingly, the draft contains amendments to 79 laws, of which amendments to public finance law and tax law are directly linked to Hungary's central budget for 2023. In my speech, therefore, I highlight in particular these amendments to the bill. Each of these protects the results achieved so far and continues to ensure the safety of Hungarian families and keeps the economy on a growth path. In my speech, I therefore refer only to the legislative amendments which affect the budget of the general government's subsystems, their implementation in substance and are directly linked to the achievement of each of the objectives of support. First of all, please allow me to indicate, before presenting the main proposals for amendments, that, in the case of support for the bill, some of the amendments, like last year, may be published almost six months before their entry into force, thus ensuring sufficient preparation time to learn about changes in the financial, economic and regulatory environment. This also means planning and predictability for the economy and for all actors in society, and these are very important aspects in the current uncertain global economy. Dear House, In order to protect Hungarian households and the country, we will also establish the system of public finances and budgetary structures of the Rezségvédelmi Fund and the Hungarian Defence Fund at legal level. The general government dimension of the amendments is of paramount importance in relation to the scope of the bill before you. The establishment and operation of these two funds clearly sets out our objectives, which are to guarantee the physical and life-saving safety of Hungarian families. In addition, balanced, disciplined and transparent fiscal management remains a basis for the government and the objective remains to operate a simple, flexible public finances system. In order for the Hungarian economy to continue to respond to economic challenges in a timely and effective manner, economic growth must be maintained. On several points, the bill concerns the Public Finance Act and certain provisions of the Act on Economic Stability in Hungary for these purposes. As part of the rule of law governing public finances, the restoration of the former rule under which the government's government-led budget headings may carry out the transfers of appropriations only if they have been approved in advance by the Minister for Public Finance. This is also true if savings are made in the appropriations concerned. The amendment further strengthens disciplined budgetary management and the principle of targeted use of budgetary resources in view of the budgetary deficit target and on the basis of practical experience. We also need economic growth to maintain our budgetary stability. The motion before you, by amending the rules for determining the internal capital requirement of Eximbank and the Hungarian Development Bank, will increase the lending potential of banks in the future, thereby supporting economic growth. Honourable Members, Hungary is at the forefront of reducing its public debt-to-GDP ratio on the basis of data from the last decade in the EU. The amendment proposal concerning the law on economic stability in Hungary is linked to a further reduction in the debt ratio. Transactions generating debt in the government sector and local authorities include, inter alia, financial leasing under the Accounting Act. At the same time, the concept of financial leasing is reflected in legislation other than the Accounting Act, with slightly different rules. According to the legal provisions in force, financial leasing is thus both a type of contract and a financial service activity, but these concepts only partially overlap. In view of this, all financial leasing should be considered a debt-generating transaction and, to this end, the proposal leaves a narrowing reference to the Accounting Act. Thus, all financial leasing contracts and financial leasing services used in the general government's sub-schemes will be considered debt-generating transactions in the future. Honourable Members, Hungary's Government's key objectives include further reduction of administrative burdens for local authorities, while ensuring the sustainability and transparency of their responsible public finances. In order to achieve these priority objectives, the bill before you also concerns the provision of information to the municipal sub-sector of public finances, given that local authorities can use their support from the central budget in general through the budgetary bodies they manage and their associations, whose local government is the head office. Therefore, according to the proposal, the reporting obligation on budgetary support from the central budget to local authorities and used by budgetary bodies or associations managed by them will be considered to be fulfilled in the future only if the reporting obligation is fulfilled by all budgetary bodies under the authority of the local government and by all entities in the association area. The proposal has been developed on the basis of practical experience and is intended to further strengthen the principle of efficient, transparent use of support from the central budget to local authorities. Further enforcement of the principle of transparent use of public funds is also reinforced by the provision of the bill which provides for the possibility of a budgetary supervisor being appointed and assigned to an entity belonging to the municipal sub-sector of public finances. However, this should only take place after prior consultation with the head of the body or body concerned. On the basis of this provision, it will also be possible for a management expert to make recommendations and opinions to the head of the body designated for the use of public funds in order to make more efficient use of public funds. Supporting local authorities from the central budget and reducing administrative burdens have been among the government's priority objectives so far, and this will continue to be the case. Therefore, the bill removes the obligation to draw up an elementary budget for municipal entities. However, this amendment does not entail any loss of data, the necessary information will continue to be available from other data sources. The bill includes not only changes that are forward-looking for local and national authorities. In order to ensure the representation of nationality in national minority self-government bodies and their organisational, personal and material conditions, the bill also provides for the possibility of raising salaries and fees for officials of national minority self-governments. Honourable Members, The bill before you affects tax rules on a number of points. Among those provisions, the provision introducing the provision on the rate of the company car tax laid down by the Emergency Regulation in force from 1 July 2022 into the Motor Vehicle Tax Act as from 1 January 2023 should be highlighted. [[11.40]] The corporate car tax rates have been unchanged since 2012, i.e. ten years ago, since then they have lost value. Partly for this reason, the provision of the company car has become a special replacement allowance for the top managers of companies, but the government's aim remains to ensure that workers receive as much wage as possible for their work, and therefore it is justified that other benefits should not be preferential from a tax point of view. As regards personal income tax, the bill provides for an amount which is not certified to be eligible for the purpose of accounting for the fuel use of modern vehicles such as purely electric vehicles or hybrid cars that can be loaded. In the latter case, the new rule contained in the proposal also aims to encourage owners to make use of the possibility of electric charging and, in the case of purely electric vehicles, the modification will allow cost accounting without the owner having an invoice for electric charging. Thus, in the future, the owners of such vehicles will also have the opportunity to use the statutory accounts instead of collecting invoices in connection with the official use of their own vehicles. The bill also empowers the tax authority to publish the fuel price that can be used in the accounts even if it can only determine it on the basis of the price of a distributor. On the basis of the proposal, the rules for declaring tax exemptions for young people under 25 years of age are also improved. Under the amended provisions, the exemption may be taken into account in the future when the payment is made even if the young person does not receive regular income, but, for example, participates in only one project, thus receiving a one-off remuneration. According to the rules in force, a young person would only be able to enforce his or her benefit only at the time of his or her tax return. Dear House, The most important changes in company taxation concern the clearing prices between related companies, i.e. transfer pricing regulation. With the introduction of a new transfer pricing reporting obligation in the corporate tax return, it will be possible to reduce the possibility of tax avoidance. In addition to the fact that more detailed data will be available to the tax authority, the proposal helps Hungarian companies to obtain a fair share of the profits generated, thus supporting an increase in budgetary revenues. In addition, by modernising transfer pricing rules, the proposal aims to make the adjustment to the normal market price range simpler and more transparent for both taxpayers and the tax authorities in the future, thus also helping companies to determine their tax liability more easily. Honourable Members, On the basis of the bill, the taxation of a Hungarian company and a foreign company's domestic branch and establishment will be identical in the future by making the foreign company's domestic establishment liable for the payment of the innovation contribution. The proposal thus offsets the tax burden on Hungarian companies and the domestic site of foreign companies, while increasing the revenue from innovation contributions from the central budget. Dear Parliament, The bill contains, in principle, an amendment to the general turnover tax for harmonisation purposes, which would allow the tax base to be reduced subsequently even in cases where the seller indirectly offers the discount to the non-taxable person buying the goods and services with the involvement of other operators. In order to clarify and facilitate the application of the law, the amendment also states that, even after group taxpayers have ceased to be taxable, the representative appointed by the group taxable persons may continue to act on the VAT obligations and rights of the group taxable person. The amendments to the tax administration aim, on the one hand, to facilitate the development of transparent economic conditions as widely as possible by the normal market price determination. The charges for the normal market price determination procedure will be brought to the level of the rates of the tax ruling procedure. The system of fees for these two procedures, which are popular among taxpayers and give prior certainty, will be in line with each other. In addition, we provide a wider range of taxpayers with the opportunity to initiate this procedure. Changes to the tax administration will make tax charging, insurance measures more effective and clarify the rules for confiscation. In the context of the levying of taxes, the bill makes a significant difference in the fact that the tax authority will be able to determine the tax liability precisely in the event of incomplete or incorrect reporting, so that, if the proposal is adopted, the tax authority can also determine the tax when carrying out its tax control. The insurance measure is one of the most effective means of detecting tax avoidance behaviour, but it is a significant restrictive instrument for the whitening of the economy vis-à-vis taxpayers. Therefore, the proposal clarifies the calculation of the time limit for the imposition of an insurance measure and the rules for payment of payment accounts blocked in the course of the insurance measure are simplified. The rules for the implementation of confiscations in relation to insurance measures will also be more precise. In carrying out the confiscation of movable property, the rules already established for real estate will have to be applied. In addition, the proposal refers to the role of the State tax and customs authorities to represent the State as a creditor in the restructuring proceedings. Honourable Members, In the case of national customs legislation, it is a positive change for taxpayers to reduce the number of cases where the customs authorities may impose a fixed administrative fine without weighing. By narrowing down the cases covered by the concept of a duty deficit, we want to avoid imposing a fixed administrative penalty of 50 per cent on account of customs debts that have already ceased on certain items. Minor infringements thus excluded from the scope of the duty deficit will not remain unsanctioned in the future, but in these cases the amount of the fine will not automatically be fixed in proportion to the amount of the duty deficit, but it will also be possible to weigh the gravity and circumstances of the infringement and to impose administrative fines in proportion to the infringement. In order to reduce the number of levels of management, to make the management lines simpler and more transparent, the position of the head of the NAV and its deputy professional is proposed to take place in the structure of the NAV. The name of the head of the NAV will be changed to president and his work will be assisted by vice-chairmen. Dear House, In addition to the general government management and the amendment of certain tax laws, the bill before you also proposes to amend a number of laws which only indirectly affect Hungary's central budget in 2023. Among them, I consider it necessary to highlight first the proposal to amend the Waste Act in consultation with the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The purpose of this amendment is to facilitate the legislative process for the transition to a new model of waste management. On the basis of the experience of preparing for the new model, in order to ensure a flexible and efficient regulatory process, it is appropriate to clarify the deadline of the Office and the Minister for Waste Management for complementary legislation, which is also included in the bill before you. On 4 July 2018, the European Union Directive, which provides for the fulfilment of the basic requirements for extended producer liability schemes in each Member State, entered into force. This is linked to the provisions of the bill which propose a general set of minimum requirements for directives and to the establishment of extended producer responsibility frameworks, in addition to the setting up of delegated provisions. Dear Parliament, By continuously reviewing the rules on civil society organisations, incorporating practical experience, simplifying the procedural rules, the legislator will also comply with the constitutional obligation to ensure and protect the peaceful exercise of the right of association by adopting this bill. Furthermore, the change in the support environment of civil society organisations is an important measure of the real picture of the operational environment of civil society organisations in that country and of the appropriate incentives for civil society organisations to act. To create a support environment that takes into account the needs of organisations, it is essential to review the rules on the support of civil society organisations on a continuous basis, to incorporate practical experience, and to establish candidate-friendly procedural rules. [[11.50]] The framework of the National Cooperation Fund increased from HUF 3.4 billion to HUF 10.9 billion between 2012 and 2022. This framework depends on the offers of 1 per cent of personal income tax, as part of it goes directly to civil society organisations, as provided by taxpayers, and the other through the support of the National Cooperation Fund. In addition to setting up the framework, it is also necessary to develop appropriate forms of tender so that civil society organisations with diverse scopes of activity, different sizes and revenues can find the form in which they can receive the most effective support. These proposals must achieve a twofold objective: on the one hand, they must help to implement the professional programmes of organisations and ensure the conditions under which they operate, while at the same time encouraging organisations to seize all opportunities to increase their own income. The current amendments, which include a change in the way in which the aid needs are submitted and the facilitation of the conditions for self-application of cross-border applicants, aim at establishing a more flexible procedure for support that is more adapted to the needs of civil society organisations. In addition to financial support, the state provides free professional assistance to civil society organisations in all counties of the country and the capital through the operation of civil society service centres. Civil society centres themselves are associations or foundations which provide free assistance to civil society organisations in fulfilling their administrative obligations, provide professional advice on legal, public benefit, IT and applications, as well as on financial, accounting and taxation issues. Their tasks will continue to expand according to the needs of civil society organisations, and therefore the permanent, priority, important functions will appear in this amendment. The monitoring system operates in order to ensure the technical coordination of budget support from the central sub-system of public finances to civil society organisations, in order to detect the parallel financing of the same project objectives. Monitoring will be used to monitor the processes affecting the civil sector support system, and it is therefore of particular importance to emphasise the obligation to record the data, by incorporating the possibility of monitoring, to further develop an accurate, up-to-date and traceable system of support for civil society organisations. Accordingly, the most important source of operational support for national foundations and associations, i.e. the proposed amendments to the National Cooperation Fund, is intended to simplify, improve reporting procedures, improve the quality of professional assistance to organisations, further expand the multifaceted activities of civil society service centres providing free professional support to civil society organisations and facilitate the conditions for self-application of cross-border applicants. On the basis of the audit experience and review of the activities and professional work of the Civic Community Service Centres, the amendment will extend the tasks of the Civic Centres. Honourable Members, As I have already said, protecting jobs and promoting employment as widely as possible are of common priority economic interest. Among other things, this is linked to the provision of the proposal which amends the level of the payment obligation of the central budget to be borne by the National Employment Fund over a budget year. This will help to monitor the financial processes of public finances and to make effective use of employment support through the central budget. The system of employment support and services provided by the public employment body changed in 2021. Under the new legislation, job-seekers can also benefit from a job-seeking incentive allowance. The purpose of this allowance is to provide support to a job seeker for the period in which he or she is trained or provided in order to facilitate his or her employment. Taking into account the contribution and tax issues of the job-seeking allowance, it can be concluded that the same rules apply to the job-seeking allowance as the unemployment allowance. However, this is not the case in the case of personal income tax, since the job search allowance is currently not a wage, so the benefit of mothers who have four or more children and young people under 25 can not be enforced for this benefit. In laying down the provisions on a job-seeking allowance, the intention was not that, if the conditions of entitlement are met, a job-seeker should not be able to enforce all the tax incentives that can be applied in the case of a replacement allowance on account of his or her benefits during the period of service and training. It is therefore also necessary to amend the Personal Income Tax Act, which mentions as wages an incentive allowance for job search. The amendment means that, in the case of entitlement, the benefit of mothers with four or more children and young people under the age of 25 in addition to the benefit of family tax benefits, personal benefits and first-wives will also be enforceable in determining the tax advance. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of the bill before the Parliament form a direct or indirect union with the bill on Hungary's central budget in 2023. The individual amendments and regulatory clarifications aim to substantially strengthen the framework for responsible and effective implementation of the next year's budget with regard to the rules for the use of state resources. I therefore ask that the bill be debated and then supported and accepted later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-29-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Lajos Szűcs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-29-61	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. For many years, the government has submitted the budget for next year again this spring, the general debate of which we have already been over. Overall, the bill before us, setting up the central budget for 2023, amends 79 pieces of legislation. The main aim of the motion is to harmonise legislation, in order to ensure consistency between the budget and the tax laws, and to ensure their smooth implementation. Allow me, without the need for completeness, to present some of the highlighted points of the bill that I consider important. The amendment to Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes complements the regulation on the special economic zone by allowing the county municipality to spend up to 17 per cent of the revenue from local taxes on its own investments. LXXXII of 1991 on motor vehicle tax From 1 January 2023, the amendment of the Act raises to the legal level the rates and tax rates of the company car tax published in the Emergency Government Decree in force from 1 July 2022. XLII 1994 on the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company. The amendment of the Act aims to establish the consistency of the rules for determining the internal capital requirement, which is Eximbank Zrt. expand its future lending potential and help economic operators access credit. LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. In particular, the amendment to the Act contains the following: the new transfer pricing reporting obligation to be fulfilled in the corporate tax return is introduced, which is intended to assist the tax authority in its control and risk analysis tasks. The 2007 CVI on state assets. By way of amendment of law, the right to use images and audio recordings made from budgetary sources and other products subject to copyright protection is included in the scope of the State's property in the course of, or in the context of, the performance of, its public tasks. [[12.00]] On the basis of the amendment, the right to use a non-budgetary source image and sound recording or other copyright protected product may also be granted free of charge to the State. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The Act amends the maximum amount of salary or fees for officials of national minority self-governments, which does not constitute an automatic increase in salaries or fees. CXCIV on Hungary's economic stability. On the basis of the amendment of Act No. 5 of the Act, all financial leasing contracts concluded in the general government's sub-schemes and financial leasing services used will be classified as debt transactions. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. The main element of the amendment of the Act: the current deadline for the parliamentary submission of the closing bill on 30 September in the year of parliamentary elections, including the election year 2022, will be amended to 10 November. It also clarifies the rule that the information provided by the local government can only be considered to be fulfilled if it has been fulfilled by all the budgetary bodies it manages and by the association with which the local government has its head office. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research. According to the amendment of the Act, the foreign company's domestic establishment will also be obliged to pay the innovation contribution. The amendment will be identical in the future to the taxation of domestic branches and establishments of Hungarian and foreign companies. LXVIII of 2016 on excise duty. Under the amendment of the Act, the law introduces a new concept of heated tobacco products in the new category of manufactured tobacco that is becoming increasingly popular. This concept already refers to products which do not contain tobacco and nicotine, typically based on herbal herbs, which can be consumed by heating. With the introduction of a separate category of tax law for manufactured tobacco based on heating technology, new products will become products subject to stamp and excise duty as of 1 January 2023, which will also be transferred to new tobacco products. The 2017 CL on the system of taxation. One of the important elements of the amendment to the Act: the tax authority may also consider the application of the legal consequences of the closing of the business even if minor irregularities related to the compulsory use and operation of the cash register have been repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the amendments and measures mentioned as an example will clearly help to ensure the regularity and legality of the budget for 2023. I therefore consider it important, and I ask you to discuss the proposal and to assist it with your supporting votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-29-62	I welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of DK. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-29-63	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Since both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have referred to it, I am obliged to bring it up here and contradict it when they talk about predictability and to classify the budget that was put forward early. I think that this is not the case at all, on the contrary; seeing that a few days ago, not even a few days ago, but yesterday, the Hungarian National Bank made a radical increase in interest rates on the content of the inflation report and on the basis of the expert forecasts that we should be talking about a recession by the end of the year. If you are absolutely serious about this budget and this is how you can help people with their value choices, then I must say that you are doing this very wrong. In fact, there are three plagues on humans, one of which I have already mentioned. After all, it is safe to say that it is recognised by you that annual inflation is above 15 per cent that could affect people if they do not take any restrictive measures. But, as I said, the Hungarian National Bank's inflation report has revised the projections upwards, and all of this significantly increases uncertainty. Therefore, there is no law on the budget and on the basis of which it is based... which, in this way, renders itself inseparable and incompetent, not to mention that you have not yet been charged with 2021, that you have not properly and indeterminately accounted for it. Despite the uncertainties of 2022, some of the uncertainties mentioned above, you are talking about 2023. Of course, this can only be done because they want to create a situation in which the budget is being amended day by day on the basis of the government's permanent regulation. This has happened more than 80 times in the past period, while my fellow Member has referred to the fact that there has been no need to change the budget in the past period. Yes, not for Parliament, because the government can transfer and pay everything in its own power. Under these circumstances, Parliament has practically been disbanded from being able to discuss all of this in substance. From this point of view, I was talking about inflation on the side of the three plagues that the government is dealing with people. For example, there is a second direct tax increase in this bill. You always say there's no such thing. Well, look at it, it's here; that's when it is. The tax increase will be made, done, while I have already mentioned the family bonus at today's committee meeting, while the taxes are being increased. The indirect price increase puts companies in a position where they need to be given more expensively, and on the basis of which they collect the money. It's obvious how big of a fake that you call an extra pro. From this point of view, I think it is safe to say that only those who are not taxed where there is profit, but those who are taxed, are not called taxes, but are collected there on a turnover basis or by some other technique. On this basis, I would like to mention a number of things concerning this law, where 80 laws are amended, what is not wanted to be spoken about either by the lead speaker of Fidesz or by the secretary of state. But I would like to say, in a prerogative, that my approach is clearly about watching and criticizing everything you do through those glasses, that we should be talking about a free, democratic Hungary when you are amending legislation. We do not have the opportunity to do so, because they just want to reduce this situation, which is no longer the case with more legislation, and to take further steps to get further and further away from European values. In this way, don't be surprised that the Democratic Coalition represents, partly as a party and partly as a faction, those Hungarians in Europe who consider this to be a value to you. [[12.10]] In this sense, this is the budget and its underlying draft legislation, which we can safely say, should not be called by any other name, together with the Orbán package, which is used to draw money from people, to centralise it in the budget. This already has its degrees, when, not right here, they take permissions, incomes away from local governments, and, for example, hand over to county authorities, where the extended tentacles of the government appear, even under a new name, but I think you know this exactly as well. In this way, I'm just a little sorry that everything we said before the spring election in this regard is being confirmed here. All that concerns austerity, all that concerns the abuse of people, even if you protested against it at the time, but one word was not true, as you are now imposing new burdens in this respect. This category includes when I say that you've been exposed. Mr. Secretary of State began by saying that something of the budget will be said by Mr. Secretary of State, I call it a lie of debt, in which they were exposed with the very simple fact that when the gas was cheaper on the international market, you gave it to people more expensively. This could have saved them and created a separate fund, and if they had done so, we wouldn't have had to sacrifice people and levy new taxes. This was not done, even if I had otherwise rejected their attitude at that time, but they did it wrong in this regard. Therefore, in the regime in which I would like to draw your attention to what is apparent from this law, what you consider to be overhead is that you can only provide or provide assistance for people with regard to gas and electricity, provide to families, in this respect, from any other aspect that appears as a regular expense to families, and increase them from the Internet in such a way that we could list them one after another, up to the food prices increased by inflation, so that they can recover everything they have been given here. So, you'll be exposed by the price of drugs being increased, the cost of our banks being increased, it's all part of the debt lie, or should I say, more delicately, it's part of the contradiction you're doing so much about. So, what are the specific legislative amendments that deserve to be mentioned in this category of 80, or should we mention them? I've already talked about one of the tax changes, and I've put it mildly: tax change, let's just say the fact: it's a tax increase. So the Orbán government is a tax-enhancing government, while the family allowance is left this way. In this category, we can safely include the fact that, and in this sense, Mr Secretary of State, their ideas about Kata, which appear here, in this law, are prepared to do much more damage to the 450 thousand people who have been lured into this gender of taxation, and now they are trying to impose burdens on them as one of the aforementioned plagues, to recover them, and not to allow them to thrive in their own way. I wouldn't devote too much time to the introduction of the Archbishop's designation, because, in truth, I think you're leaving it as a diversionary operation for us or leaving it for the people, like when you shoot out those missiles behind the fighter jets to see what other people are paying attention to. However, I would be pleased to hear that Mr Secretary of State gives a detailed explanation of the reason why it is necessary to introduce this, since we have already met here. The Hungarian Secretary of State for Eximbank has also mentioned, and I would like to point out that, Mr Secretary of State, it is clear: is it not the story of creating a greater risk-taking opportunity at the bank? So, what has always been a house-paying place, where they have always invented something that has resulted in the financing of TV2's contracts, and we could say further, which has nothing to do with the export-import activity, they have done so, and while now, as Mr Secretary of State has put it, they are raising the limits. In English, the risk-taking option is extended to the bank's managers. If you could give me an example of why this is necessary, I would be very happy to do so. I don't think that's necessary in any way. What I would like to recall here, Mr Secretary of State, is what millions of people have clearly supported and initiated, I could say, in their name too, that it would be very important to talk about 9 months instead of 90 days' unemployment benefit. I regret that this does not appear in this regard in this law, and in that sense it has left you cold. I see that the relationship between the Attorney General and the President of the Republic will have to be settled by law in this way, but they will find a way to resolve this. Asking what will happen now with the relevant concession applications on waste management, and finding a company, or the whole story of MOL, is being put on the back of this whole story, that there are more and more settlements where the garbage stays. What's going to happen, Mr. Secretary? How will this be implemented if this amendment contributes to the fair resolution of this, by the way? Although, in fact, in the face of the local government, a service is being outsourced, it has been taken away from the municipalities, which have, by the way, solved this well, and now it is being given to those who will benefit from it, but for now I just wanted to ask the basic question. What is at the end: their fight with civil society organisations, I see, is being continued here, although it is more so with domestic civil society organisations being hosted, while at the same time creating an opportunity to finance NGOs across borders much more easily, which is not in one case, and in many cases proved to be a paying place that they consider to be important in this respect. As a last thought, tell me one last thing, Mr. Secretary. When the Prime Minister promised a party leader a hundred million dollars here in the Balkans, was it also paid in such a similar way, or was there any other way to do that, and there was no need to initiate a separate amendment of the law? Thank you very much, and I look forward to your honored answers. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-06-29-64	The next speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker at KDNP. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2022-06-29-65	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have a feeling of Déjà vu, because László Varju said the same things he said in the budget debate, for 10 minutes he continued the general debate on the budget, then for 5 minutes he talked about the foundation laws. [[László Varju: Only partially!]] This was the extension of the current bill, since we had these debates on the budget for 30 hours last week. By the way, you have already been answered to a number of questions, which you have just asked, of course, from us, but from Parliamentary Secretary Banai last week, whether it is about the extra-profit tax or the reduction of the rent or a number of issues you have already asked. However, in such a long 15-15.5 minute speech, it always comes out, sometimes even honesty flashes even in DK politicians, when he said that we were withdrawing funds from institutions, from sectors that do not have any profit, he literally said. We've lived it again, as in many years in a row, that DK is concerned about the profits of banks. You say, Congressman, that they have no profits for banks, insurance companies or even for energy dealers in a period of war with inflation. [[László Varju: Don't say anything I didn't say.]] Honourable Congressman, He says that the bank doesn't have a penny profit when, for your money, the bank pays 0.3-0.4 percent deposit interest, and in the Hungarian National Bank it holds 5-6-7 percent of the same money, your money, only the difference between the two is taken by the bank, the bank swallows it. This is what we call an extra profit, and part of this is the special tax on extra profit, when it is not because of extra performance or higher quality that the income increases, merely because of external circumstances, now due to the war and the energy crisis, completely regardless of the quality of banking services, the performance of bank employees or even the expansion of services. This is what we call an extra profit, which is why we need a greater contribution of solidarity, which is why it is necessary to distribute public burdens in this way. But when you say that we only tax where there is no profit, I would call that a poetic exaggeration, but it is not true in a noble simplicity. You've hit the overhead again, told the usual left-wing mantras why the overhead cuts aren't good. We remember that Klara Dobrev said that there was no reduction in the rent. Ask him, say, if he has a friend in the Netherlands or a friend in Sweden, how much he is paying for electricity now without a reduction in the cost of electricity and how much he paid, let's say, for gas this winter. [[Antal Csárdi: How much is the salary there?]] You should also ask on a pay-per-view basis, honourable Member, because the price of gas in the Netherlands is 11 times higher than that of the Hungarian population. In Sweden last December, before the outbreak of the war, the heating of a 130-square-meter family house cost thousands of euros, honourable Member. So feel free to combine it with salaries, proportion it to the population, the number of hours of sunshine, whatever you can do to balance it with, it is clear that there is an energy crisis in Western Europe, and it is not unfolding, and not exclusively because of the war, because last year, according to Eurostat data, the price of energy increased by 26 percent, even in the autumn of last year, without any war period. Since then, of course, it has obviously grown even further because of the war and the misguided sanctions. Congressman Varju asked about the headband. I'll talk about it later, and he went to the county. We've already argued about this because of the word relationship in the county yesterday in the debate on the Fundamental Law. But if we look at this bill establishing the budget, it contains amendments to a number of laws, 79 laws. The Secretary of State has listed in detail the reasons, the reasons and the new changes that will take place with the amendment. I think it is very important that there are also a number of simplifications and a number of changes to reduce administrative burdens in the tax rules. As a matter of principle, whoever is submitting them, whoever says, I always support reducing bureaucracy, reducing the different administration of the tax burden, fundamentally reducing public administration hours for businesses and individuals and making it as simple, transparent and easier as possible. This is a process where I think we have achieved a great deal, for example through tax returns made by the NAV, for example through various electronic declarations, we have achieved a great deal. But I think it's an area where there's always something to do. It is also clear from this bill that it is always worth reducing the burden of public administration more and more. If we look at the last 12 years, it can be said with a noble simplicity that the Fidesz-KDNP government is the government of tax reductions. Since 2010, we have reduced taxes 80 times. Tax measures taken since 2010 have reduced taxes in Hungary to 4-5 percent of GDP. The Act of the year on Corporate Tax and dividend Tax is amended on a number of points from 2023. Corporate tax is a tax that affects social entrepreneurs. This category includes, for example, bt-s, kft-s, cooperatives and other organisations. The corporate tax rate has consistently been 9 percent in Hungary since 2017. This favourable tax rate is also a huge competitive advantage for Hungary, since it has an attractive and economic incentive effect. I know that you are big supporters of the global minimum tax and are also trying to introduce a global minimum tax in Hungary. We believe that Hungarian tax policy must be defined by the Hungarian Parliament. It is not from New York, Moscow, Berlin, anywhere, Washington, Paris or Brussels that Hungarian tax policy is defined, but it is right for us to decide about it here in Hungary. Our government's goal in the last 12 years has always been to make Hungary an attractive target for both Hungarian and foreign companies and investors. The corporate tax rate was 19 percent earlier. This decreased by 10 percentage points to 9 percent. On the basis of the current amendments, a new transfer pricing reporting obligation will be introduced in the corporate tax return to assist the tax authorities in their control and risk analysis tasks. According to the taxpayer's decision, impairment recognised for equity increases the tax base. When the instrument concerned is removed from the books, the amount recognised in previous tax years as an increase in the profit before tax reduces the tax base. The amendment ensures that the expense recognised in respect of impairment is in effect in the tax base. I would like to talk about the special employee part-owner programme, as in this case, there will be no tax base for the future resulting from the valuation, exchange or release of assets. It is very important, and today we have already partially involved in the debate on the proposal for a three-year-old legislation amending the excise duty law, in which it introduces a new concept of heated tobacco products belonging to the increasingly popular new categories of manufactured tobacco. We are faced with a phenomenon here where, in addition to the classic smoking instruments such as cigarettes or cigars, it is known to everyone at the same time that new tobacco products have appeared, and are also advertised as herbal medicinal products, which make very easy access and online availability available. Usually, a company with a foreign background provides young people with access to such products, while more research, more doctors and more and more people claim that they are extremely harmful. By the way, the so-called Elf Bar, referred to as the new generation of smoking, has not yet been accurately assessed for its serious dangers, since this illegally marketed so-called Elf Bar has become extremely popular among underage people very quickly. We know that due to its presentation, colour and flavour, it is one of the most popular in this most vulnerable, most endangered age group, it can also cause serious poisoning. Doctors report that chest pain, headache, dizziness may occur, and may result in mucosal irritation or spitting of blood due to the amount of volatile substances. We know how dangerous these new instruments are, which have flooded the European market and are primarily attacking juveniles. In order to protect minors and to reduce smoking, I believe it is important that this new concept already means products that are typically herbal, heating-based, which do not contain tobacco and nicotine. With the introduction of a separate category of tax law for manufactured tobacco based on new heating technology, new products will become products subject to sealing and excise duty as of 1 January 2023. [[12.30]] I know that during the year, it is neither appropriate nor customary to modify tax rules. Here, I would consider the earlier deadline to be possible if it were not for the fundamental consensus and the way to legislate that we always put in place tax rules and change them from 1 January, because I think that this is a very serious danger, the consequences of which we may not even see yet. This is a few months trend, doctors have already said, rapid research has already been done, but we do not see the long-term effects of these instruments yet. We do not see what these young people will cause to consume these products in 5-10-20-30 years, and how, for example, the health register will be burdened later by the consumption of these products. LII of 2018 on social contribution tax. On the basis of an amendment to Act No. 5 the social contribution tax liability of farmers will, in principle, also have to be established for the tax year, taking into account that the social security status of the primary producer may change during the year. In addition, the proposal states that the proportional proportion of the tax base established by the retired primary producers in the reference year for the period following the starting date for pension payments should not be taken into account when determining the tax liability. The social contribution tax has been reduced by more than half over the last five years. While in 2016, the rate of the social contribution tax was 27 percent, this year, from 1 January 2022, the employer's tax on wages is only 13 percent. That was 33.5 percent in your time, ladies and gentlemen, remember that. At the same time, the 1.5 percent VET contribution tax was abolished and the tax system was greatly simplified. The employer's burden on wages is therefore only 13 percent tax this year. In comparison, I said this: in the 2008 Gyurcsány tax system, the employer's tax on wages was hit by five types of taxes, so the administration was also much more complicated, with a minimum tax burden of 33.5 per cent on wages for employers overall. In addition to tax matters and simplification, the bill we are discussing now includes provisions for the benefit of property, so we can also see the application of church property in the bill. Based on previous experience, the benefit of wealth to churches has proved to be a very bad, profitable and valuable investment, as churches do very important work in education, health care, social and child protection, as well as their religious activities. Since 2010, there has been more than a double increase in the number of persons attending church-owned public education institutions and vocational training institutions, which is now more than 240,000 people. In the area of social and child protection benefits, there has been a significant increase in church presence. In social services, church attendance increased from 15 percent to 25 percent, from 6.5 percent to 72 percent in child protection. Over the past 12 years, more than 3,000 churches have been renewed in Hungary and in the Hungarian inhabited areas of the Carpathian Basin and nearly 200 new churches have been built with Hungarian government support. László Varju also spoke about civil society organisations. It's another DK attack on CSOs across the border, isn't it? It's a regular and from time to time recurring Gyurcsányist attitude. I think it is very important that the National Cooperation Fund, which is also called "national" and therefore the whole nation should also be able to participate in the tenders and receive small grants, typically below HUF 3 million, for activities that are carried out locally for the preservation of the community and for the preservation of Hungarian identity. In the past, it was only possible that the NGO across the border was a co-worker with a civil society organisation registered in Hungary, and in this way they were linked, civil society organisations were forced to apply together, and certainly not all the resources were available to strengthen the community on the ground, because cross-border programmes had to be implemented. This option will, of course, continue, so that sibling settlements, siblings, various groups of folk dance groups or any civil society organisation wishing to cultivate their relations in Hungary and across borders can continue to do so within the proposals, but from now on civil society organisations will be able to benefit from the National Cooperation Fund on their own with cross-border programmes. László Varju falsely claimed that this was some kind of attack. There are 60,000 NGOs in Hungary. Every year, 16-17-18 thousand NGOs apply within the NEA framework. I think that Hungarian civilian life is very active and that there has never been as much support for civilians as it has been in recent years. In view of all this and in view of what has been said before me, the KDNP fraction will support the bill establishing the budget. Thank you for the opportunity, Madam President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-29-66	Now it's time for Congressman Daniel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-67	Madam President, Dear House, We have a budget package ahead of us, and they want to base something they can't do without knowing the facts. We have come from the debate on the Economic Committee, and it has also been said that the government expects about 5.2 percent inflation, while the Hungarian National Bank is already setting the central bank base rate to almost 8 percent, and according to its own statements, inflation above 12 per cent will remain in the range from September to the end of 2023; they predict that this indicator may be returned to the range below 10 per cent. You're counting 5.2. Why? On what grounds? I tell you a lot of times, you put a well-prepared secretary of state in the position of trying to explain the unexplainable. After all, the government really behaves as if there is a system of war effects on the Hungarian economy now, which will surely go away for the next budget period. Now 80 laws are being amended with the budget package. They intervene here and there, so they will make this package sellable, but the fact is that if we look at the inflation figures in March or look at the pre-war indicators, we will also see that one of Europe's fastest growth in inflation is unfortunately and I wish it had not been so. it was produced by the Hungarian economy; however, the EU average that I often did not refer to was already exceeded by Hungarian inflation at the time. So the amazing disaster that caused inflation to explode due to the effects of the war has found a previously weakened Hungarian economy, and the prices of raw materials have continued to drop. But we can also see that the Government of Hungary misses one more thing out of the package setting up the budget: this is an amazing drop in the exchange rate of the euro. What exchange rate was the previous budget calculated? Well, how about this one? Well, I've been hit by dozens of forints. And I understand that the conscious weakening of the forint is the unconditional service of your true allies, the Western European multi-company. I see. There's a conscious process going on. We started at 260, now we're looking at over 400. Some analysts are already talking about a price of 430 HUF. I hope that you will not be right, and I very much hope that this data will start with a three, but both the budget and the package of reasons for it are very, very benevolent towards ourselves. And so, realistic planning is impossible to continue. We also see that when the MNB reveals reality to the government, the question arises as to why they do not like communicating with each other. So it is an open secret in Hungary that the MNB has sacrificed most of its independence on the altar of politics in recent years, and I can safely say that, let's say, in relation to the treatment of foreign exchange lenders. My fellow Member Nacsa and I often avoid each other; when I listen to him and respond to him, he goes out of the room, in other cases I have to go to a committee meeting, so it is very difficult for us to find this common discourse room, but perhaps we will manage it in the corridor. It is quite certain that when he talks about the profits of the banks and accuses opposition parties of what they want to do with this bank profit, he again exposes the government's real policy of which he is a veterinary horse, Mr. Secretary of State, the transaction fee. You have introduced a type of tax, called tax, which has been called a levy, perhaps in order to have a little less shadow boxing in Brussels. A burden of $200 billion has been invented. It wouldn't be a big problem if you didn't allow it from the Hungarian national banker, and you merged into it, under supervision, to pass it on to the people. Then, here in Parliament, we indicated to you that our dear government, the small businessmen, had received a letter from their bank in many cases to pay the transaction fee back five months, which in itself is a violation of several directions. [[12.40]] So the fact that someone, a taxable person on whom a tax has been levied, writes to entrepreneurs that they pass on this tax is nonsense, so this is where you commit your prehistoric sin. Not now, once again, when I am allowed to pass on special taxes worth more than 500 billion, because I have always been a great proposer of special taxes, I will not hide it, and nothing has changed in this area. But passing them on is a disgusting market process, because the consumer, the client, the citizen cannot defend themselves against it. If supervision allows the government to pass on the transaction fee as a whole, if the government allows the majority of the banking sector special tax to be passed on, then the citizen is essentially defenceless. We also see that there is still a EBRD pact hanging over your head, so it is on your website in English that you have agreed to the banking system. It was papered, they agreed not to do any damage to the banks in order to settle the situation of the victims. I also refer to the forinting at the market rate, where I believe that this government has committed another prehistoric crime in respect of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, as it pointed to the Curia that the Curia would have set a conversion rate for you in the case of foreign exchange lending. We have read in detail all the relevant resolutions and decisions of the Curia. Of course, it was not said that the Curia set a market rate of 256 HUF for those who took out a so-called loan at 160 HUF. The Curia's maximum is about burden sharing, and here I stress, sharing, and which types of risk can and cannot be installed on. But it was not said that the entire risk should only be borne by the client in a specific way. Hungary's Government, the MNB and supervision have again laid down their arms for the benefit of the banks, and have once again sided with the banks against the interests of the citizens. Of course, we will have the answer to that, that the currency loan stock grew up before 2010; that the supervision at the time did not properly do its job; that the governments of that time had amazing crimes on this issue. No one's arguing that. What I am asking of you is the 12 years available to solve the problem, and the doing of nothing, tumbling and economic betrayal when the banks took sides instead of representing the interests of the customers. It is very important to say this: when you refer to the extra profit of the banks and to their taxation, the whole picture is that Hungary's previous governments, i.e. since 2010, have been in a vassal way with the needs of the banking system, and, by the way, I have to include the governments before 2010, so let us not be unfair. Since 1990, I have not been able to name a government that has not actually fulfilled these financial interests unconditionally. I could highlight one or two in a positive direction, but it would start further debates. Let us keep in mind that, at systemic level, the interests of the Hungarian people were replaced by financial and banking interests. This also includes the category of self-destruction when my fellow Member Nacsa mentions the government of tax reductions in a recurring way. I don't want to bring in the new types of exotic tax introduced by Fidesz, I'm sure it doesn't concern me, so I could mention the shampoo tax, the public health product fee, but I don't want to take this debate in that direction. However, I claim that the third original sin took place in 2017. So when the key to corporate tax was set by this government and a tax haven level was created for multinational companies, it was once again not in the national interest. This seems to be an insurmountable fault between us, that perhaps my fellow Member Nacsa believes that this tax rate is indeed a tempting force for multi-enterprises, large investors, while anyone who knows their world, their operation knows that predictable legal system, a stable background, a normal climate, and the supply of decently trained and adequate workforce are all more important aspects. The effective tax rate, of course, is very important, but the tax rate you impose is still being played out by these companies laughing; unfortunately, they have played 15 percent, and you have let them play 9 percent, and you let them. In the case of an Audi, in the case of large multi-company companies, when we look at the tax actually paid, we find amounts below 1 per cent, or just one or two minuses, as my LMP colleagues pointed out in the budget debate in a very correct way, since you are even pampering these multinationals with a mass of non-refundable grants, in a totally unnecessary way, in an unprecedented way in Europe. Give these grants to Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises! But in the meantime, I ask that the extra profit of the banks be mentioned in a moderate way, because it was you who always supported the banker's interests instead of the national interest. With regard to the government of tax reductions, let us not go without saying that the tax burden of a young and single, childless person on average is essentially the greatest in the whole region. The fact that this man is childless does not necessarily mean that he does not want to start a family. Therefore, you could ask for help in doing so, which, let's just say, you will receive it within limits in Hungary. I was also frightened by a sentence by the Secretary of State, and I ask that we talk about this a lot more. In terms of implementation, he may have said that I hope that I have written it wrong, and then I take responsibility for it, but they said that implementations are extended to property according to proven proposals. I very much hope that we have shifted the focus here, or I have misunderstood something, but it has worked to call real estate implementations in a country where tens of thousands of evictions were carried out without accommodation during the reign of the Minister of Family Affairs, a very serious and risky sentence. I don't want to imagine bad intentions or cynicism, I'm sure it's just an inappropriate wording. The creation of a family minister is also a very good and supportive thing, so let's not argue about it, but the fact that during the reign of the Minister of Family Affairs, mass evictions took place in thousands and tens of thousands of people without accommodation is quite harsh. Let us not mention any proven methods in these cases at all, because in very, very many cases opposition lawyers, civilians and activists had to provide legal assistance instead of the institutional system of the government, so that it would be at least unbearable to stay alive, so that this process would not lead to the death of more people. But the health, family expansion plans, the entire career path and life plan of many of our countrymen have been the victims of the way in which these implementations have been handled, implemented, implemented, and obviously not yet clear, because there are only accusations and suspicions as to the interrelationship between the government and executives, but I very much hope that they do not consider what we have seen in recent years as a proven model and recipe in this respect. We also need to talk about the fact that the government of tax reductions wishes to collect more than 1,600 billion more VAT in a single year and to cash in on the Hungarians. Obviously, they will say that, well, consumption has increased so much. By the way, 17.5 percent was undoubtedly on the front of the expansion. What's that all about? About the pre-election distribution and a lot of measures, whether supported by me or not, but these are certainly temporary, spiking things, which have a strong impact on inflation, which, at the same time, will not appear in the salaries of the coming months, or even in social transfers. However, we do not see that consumption has increased to such an extent that it would have been sufficient to massage such a large amount of VAT. However, speaking of which, I have mentioned several times that we have asked for just over 10 percent of this extra tax amount, please for families raising children, as regards the VAT certification of basic foods, as regards the de-VATisation of child rearing articles. Here, too, it should be very, very seriously guaranteed that the VAT reduction will result in a real decrease in prices. A guarantee of this can only be given if the professional debates in this regard are finally carried out. There is another very important aspect, because here again, this government has made itself family-friendly, and we have a family support form that is subjective, which has now been frozen for decades. It is not the subject-righted person who is closer to me, but rather the reduction of taxes on work, so as a right-wing person, I am obviously not leaning towards aid, but towards facilitating the availability of income from the world of work. But for every Hungarian child, there is a minimum, even if my fellow Member is waving, there is a necessary minimum, and the freezing of the amount of the family allowance must at last be considered at some level. Cowardly, slylyly, the government doesn't take sides in this. I suggest that you double this amount by introducing a family card institution, and it fits into the budget. This family card, on the other hand, should only pay for the child-rearing article and the basic food necessary for the child's upbringing, as well as the costs related to his teaching and housing. Once again, I would like to point out that this could be a lot of money in the budget. [[12.50]] The institution of the family card allows these amounts to be used exclusively in the interests of the child. Let's be clear, and let's be honest, you can't buy pleasure goods, gambling or lottery tickets with a family card. I am determined that such a family protection measure could benefit very serious amounts in the interests of children. And if you want to base the budget, first you have to give justice to your statements protecting families, and to do so would be an excellent tool to support family cards and child rearing by all means in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-29-68	The lead speaker of the Momentum Group, Endre Tóth, is coming. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-29-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Let's be honest, it's a salad law. Although it is called a law for the foundation of the budget, it actually contains a lot of provisions that have nothing to do with the foundation of the budget. I would like to talk about them first, because no one has said anything about them yet, and it is important that we talk about them as well. I ask the question: what does the amendment to the Civil Code have to do with, for example, the foundation of the budget, which provides that, in the case of events by the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic, it may subsequently be asked to make the persons present unrecognizable in the pictures and videos published in the press? What does this have to do with the foundation of the budget? Obviously nothing, but you have tried this controversial, and I believe that your proposal rejected by society is included in a very large number of technical and even eligible salad laws that form the basis of a budget. But let's see what is behind this amendment to the Civil Code, what is the situation in Hungary, who needs to be protected from public appearance. Editke, come on, I'm gonna slap you. In 2017, József Antall, head of the public knowledge centre, said to a member of his staff after he dared to like one of the entries of the Momentum Movement with his private social media site. Péter Antall, the leader who said that, then fired the lawyer who was in a hurry to protect the coworker, who was also an employee of the Centre, who later won the labour law suit. András Pencz, member of the Momentum Movement, was kicked out of the Budafok-Tétény Municipality because he played a role in the. NOlimpia, and although the deputy mayor, Zoltán Németh, said that he did an excellent job, because of his different position in the Olympic settlement and opposition activity, he was removed from the employees of the municipality. But here we can also talk about András Fekete-Győr, who is the father of the group leader of the Momentum Movement, and a year after his son's political engagement, he was removed from the head of the National Deposit Insurance Fund before his mandate expired. On the basis of these examples, which are only excavated examples, it is clear that those appearing at the events of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic in Hungary do not have reason to fear the public, but rather have the right to fear and worry about retaliations who take on their opposition opinion. Still, the government, with this provision, which you put in this salad law, would protect the government's mysterious friends, they could ask to be ejected in the photos. While those appearing at opposition meetings would not be subject to this regulation, they would not be able to ask that they be protected, where appropriate, from various retortions, from their faces being made public. However, if anyone has anything to fear, they are, in particular in the small settlement environment, hearing a lot of stories about local pro-government mayors sending their people to opposition events to photograph who participates in these events, who participates in the opposition pre-election, and then this photograph has consequences for public work or employment. These people, who live in such an environment and take on their opposition opinion, really have reason and fear of the wrath of the village Duffs. However, they are not subject to this regulation, but only at pro-government events, people who appear before the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic can ask to make them unrecognizable in the press. So how is it? Who does this civil law amendment serve and protect? Is the aim now to allow Lőrinc Mé-száros or István Tiborcz to sit on the Prime Minister's right hand without disturbing the public? Or is the goal now to allow Nikola Gruevski, the government's corrupt Macedonian protégé, or perhaps Russian spy chief Sergei Nariskin's family of Hungarian citizenship to sit in the VIP box? Perhaps Péter Polt or László Domokos, or the head of other independent institutions on paper, will be free to dance at Viktor Orbán's rally? This proposal is unfair and unacceptable because it protects those who do not need protection in the shadow of the two-thirds Fidesz power and does not protect those who really need protection, who take their opposition opinion in small-town, pro-government overweight media. I also remembered an example of a bad memory. The last person missing from the photos was Iosif Stalin. I think that this is a very bad example of history, and I do not think that Hungary should be pushed in this direction. Another example, which has also been included in this salad law, is the nationalization of the three important spaces in Budapest; it is about Vörösmarty Square, Széchenyi Square and Podmaniczky Square, who would not have read this section. Again, this is something that cannot be called the foundation of the budget, since this does not affect the central budget. If we look at what this is about, obviously, the further robbery of the opposition-led capital, the taking away of opportunities and assets from the capital of Gergely Christmas, and placing private interests above the public interest. I am thinking primarily of István Tiborcz's hotel development project in Vörösmarty Square. Not to mention that this nationalisation, which takes place without compensation, can also be unconstitutional on the basis of previous constitutional decisions. And it also reminds us of events of a very bad memory: the last time the Communists nationalized without compensation after World War II factories, businesses, schools. I think it is time that we didn't lean on history for a period of bad memory, we didn't refer to the bad pages of history as an example, but look into the future, and in this connection we should call these amendments to the salad law unacceptable, and therefore the Momentum Movement doesn't support this salad law, regardless of its eligible elements, but the government has made it impossible to accept these small mines which it has placed in the law, the whole package. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-29-70	Mr Zoltán Vajda, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is now coming. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-29-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House! Dear Secretary of State, Why are we here? What are we talking about? So, what do we want? Why are we even here right now? And why are we here now? I have such simple questions, by the way. I would just like to read the title of the law first, which is about the foundation of the central budget for 2023. So I am asking these questions, in addition to what my fellow Member, Mr Tóth, has just said, that this salad law contains things that have absolutely nothing to do with the budget, this is an absolute valid problem, but I would raise another problem beyond that, if we quote from his title that he will base the budget, then this assumes that if the House will adopt this law, then the budget will be justified. I'm not very good at interpreting semantic words, but it assumes that if we establish something and accept it, it will be justified. So, really, my question is what we're talking about, why we're here, why we're here, and why we're not, let's say, beaching together like this in the last days of June; and why don't we talk about this law as well as about the central budget, when, say, we should be skiing together sometime in December, around Christmas, before, sometime in the last days of the year. [[13.00]] Why is it that the government is so stubbornly insisting on this? And here's a sign that Mr. Secretary of State in his expo mentioned this as a positive attribute of this bill or, in general, of the budget. He has repeatedly indicated predictability as a positive thing, how good it is that we are discussing it now, and that we are expected to adopt the budget by a majority of you during the summer, before the summer, and that it will increase predictability. Well, I don't see how you can be justified, here I quote the title of the law, or the budget is predictable, if we don't know the future, because it's obvious that when we buy a budget for next year, it's hard to know the future, but we don't know the present yet, because 2022 is still in the first half of the year, it's the last days of June, so the second half of 2022 is ahead of us, we don't know the data for the first half of 2022, and we don't have the final closing date for last year. So we don't know the future, it's okay, we don't know the present, I have a problem with that, but it's terrible that we don't know the past, and we're trying to accept next year's budget. So the first problem is why here, why this and why now. And let me tell you these uncertainty factors, which I think are despite predictability. So I understand that it can be argued that if we adopt a law six months earlier, then the market will have confidence that it is predictable. Well, I'm just saying here that I understand that the hundred amendments we talked about the other day, Mr Secretary of State, have indicated that they are not legally amendments, and I am willing to accept that, but they are amendments to the market. The fact that reorganizations are not modified by the Parliament, but by a clever method, is still a step against uncertainty or predictability. So, let me say at least four or five items that I'm sure are horrendous uncertainty, which makes it irresponsible to negotiate a budget now, and let's say, not in a tight six-month period. The first such uncertainty is certain that the international environment, in this we should be just. These are international problems outside Hungary, which we need to talk about. After a post-Covid, I hope that we are not in a pre-wave period under Covid or before another wave, there are many that, let us be fair, are completely independent of the Hungarian government's activities from the difficulties of supply chains. There is a war environment, which I also think is essentially independent of the government, and there is also an energy crisis. I'm sure these are three terrible big problems that it's difficult to anticipate in such a long perspective. These are the ones that may be independent of the government. Is there an uncertainty that is certain not independent of your activities: is the money we all want for Hungary from EU taxpayers coming? Overall, we are talking about EUR 40 billion for the entire EU budget cycle. Unfortunately, it is easy to multiply the 40 billion by 400 now, we are talking about 16 000 billion forints, which you are playing with, and in terms of next year's budget, the budget is planning about 2000 billion forints of EU money. This is about half a million forints of money for every Hungarian household that EU taxpayers would give Hungary if the most basic, let's say, anti-corruption measures were introduced by the government. I was pleased to hear yesterday, Navracsics, I don't know what his exact title is, but I don't think I know his exact title for such EU funds, but I just call him his trusting statement that he now sees an agreement in the second semester; it's easy to say because the first semester is over. I am rooting for him, and I would love to see EU funds come to Hungary, but you are risking 2,000 billion forints per household to all Hungarian households by refusing, for example, to introduce anti-corruption measures. This is the second terrible uncertainty factor. The third, which has already been mentioned by several of us, has been said by my fellow Member Varju, either inflationary pressure or runaway pressure. We know the numbers in general, but I, for example, collected them from excellent preparation materials prepared by the Parliamentary Office, so that in May 2022, margarine was 41 percent, bread was 37%, milk was 30 percent, eggs were also 30 percent, and let me not list the inflation figures that were found behind the average inflation figure of 10.7 percent. The fourth uncertainty factor, which has already been mentioned, is the exchange rate of the forint, and it is certainly no longer possible to say that the government has no responsibility in this regard, because inflation can still be said in the Rogán-Habony works that this is war inflation. I have also tried to deny that this is not only war inflation, since inflation in Hungary started far before the outbreak of the war, and inflation has been growing dynamically, month after month since last autumn. I am willing to accept that the war has an impact on this, but returning to the euro/forint exchange rate, here we are completely separated from the Polish Złoty, the Czech crown. Yesterday, the Hungarian National Bank had a dramatic interest rate increase of 1.85 percent. I'm just saying to people who don't follow this so much that we usually say interest rate increases in basis points. One basis point is 0,01 percent, and I can say that a 10 or 20 or 25 or possibly 50 basis points interest rate increase is a strong impact already and a strong signal to the market. Well, the 1.85 percent 185 basis points interest rate increase, so the National Bank had to carry out a dramatic interest rate increase, and the forint exchange rate went back somewhat below 400, but unfortunately, it continues to float around the psychological limit of 400 or there is, unfortunately it has not achieved much strength. I see one more uncertainty, and that is the last thing I would say between uncertainties: this is the lack of public finances, the balance of the budget. Let's say, by the fourth quarter of last year, it is worth seeing that while Hungary has a 7.6 percent deficit, what we see in Poland is 2.7 percent, the EU 27 average is 3.5 percent, the euro area is also 3.6 percent or 4.4 percent in Slovenia. Hungary managed to bring together 7.6 percent of the fourth quarter deficit last year. So, my argument is why you have to do this six months earlier, why you have to insist on it so crampedly. In other cases, it may even be argued why it is a good trend to accept it quickly, but in such a terrible situation of uncertainty, why it must be now, especially when I am concerned that we will all have to learn the terrible expression of stagflation when there is no economic growth and we are operating in a high inflation environment. So, Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, I would like to ask you that, for example, because of these arguments... or if you don't listen to me, and this doesn't cause me any psychological problems if you don't listen to me, but if, say, you listen to the National Bank, yesterday you said that inflation could only be in the 11 and 12,6 percent range for this year. I indicate that three months ago they thought about a 7.5 percent inflation rate for 2022, and next year, the Hungarian National Bank led by Matolcsy is already planning an inflation rate of 6.8-9.2 percent. You have planned this budget by 5.2 percent. So I would like to ask the Government, Mr Secretary of State, with respect to you, that it is not time to revise this budget already, because it is already apparent that the 5.2 percent plan is one of the most fundamental macro indicators in terms of inflation. The euro exchange rate they are planning, I wouldn't say, but it would be worth mentioning that they are counting on a price of HUF 377. I think that there is no Hungarian person who believes that next year inflation will be 5.2 percent and the average euro exchange rate will be HUF 377. This is where I heard how much the government of tax cuts is your government. I'm glad to see you, but you're on the phone. He's had a long day, I see, 'cause he was on TV early yesterday morning, and he said some pretty bad things, unfortunately, but that's okay. How much of a tax reduction government is your government? The extra-profit is certain that a tax increase, which will be passed on directly to the Hungarian people. There are two types of companies that are hit by the extra-profit tax: one type of company is loudly pleading and, by saying invaluable adjectives, passing it on to Hungarians, the other type of company, which is hit by the extra-profit tax, quietly not saying anything, sneaking, but passing it on to Hungarian people, so this is certainly a tax increase in itself. [[13.10]] I do not see what the government of the tax reduction is, when, in terms of VAT, more than 15 percent more VAT revenue is planned, and I could list many tax increases. But I'm running out of time, so I just want one more thing, because we're serious about ourselves. If there is a law here that is supposed to establish the unfounded budget, then let's look at how the budget, let's say, relates to welfare expenditure, compared to, say, 2010 because for some reason, you like to point back to 2010. Let's say she spends 37% on education, 14 percent on health care and 31 percent less on pensions in proportion to GDP than the 2010 government budget. Let's figure it out. In 2010 the government spent 5,49 per cent of its education activity in proportion to GDP, 3,47 per cent in the ratio of GDP to health, 4.55 per cent to 3.9 per cent, and spending on pensions is reduced from 10.45 per cent of GDP to 7.15 per cent. So, overall, what I can say is that I do not know why we are discussing this now, why not in winter, when other countries following European values adopt the budget and the laws that are supposed to lay the foundations for this at the end of the year, why we have to insist on it in a cramped manner. What I see is that this budget is already ready for revision, because it seems that basic macro indicators will no longer be met. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2022-06-29-72	The lead speaker of the Group of our countries, Mr István Szabadi, is next. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-29-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, During the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2023, Mi Hazank Movement welcomes the efforts to preserve Hungarian traditions and restore the historic constitution, but we would go further than that. As President László Toroczkai indicated in his first speech in Parliament, we set the goal of settling the historic constitution, because we believe that the social acceptance of Hungary's Fundamental Law is incomplete, many Hungarians feel that the current Fundamental Law is a fundamental law of a party, and obviously we are not talking about the continuation of the historic constitution in this case, because there has been a lack of broad social reconciliation of this Fundamental Law, which obviously would have been necessary. Furthermore, while we are talking about traditions, we recommend the restoration of the police to the public safety of the county, as the work of the police must be assisted by a state of authority, which can not be ordered for local government or border protection tasks. The Gendarmerie would be desperately needed, as the subculture that does not comply with the basic rules of social co-existence is spreading in Hungary. The Gendarmerie would be set up on a preventive basis, carrying out a crime prevention function, as opposed to the police in charge of investigative duties. There wouldn't be a gendarme everywhere, but a place where public order breaks down. A gendarme wearing a commanding uniform with special training would scare criminals away with the appearance of a gendarme. The bill on the basis of the central budget for 2023 clarifies, in the case of exceptional measures of the Public Finance Act, that, from the beginning of July 2023, emergency provisions are contained in Article 51 instead of Article 53 of the Fundamental Law. Obviously, this evening is a technical transfer, but we would like to draw attention once again to what these extraordinary measures mean for public finances. The Government may carry out expenditure not covered by the Central Budget Act and impose extraordinary payment obligations. But among the local government's budget, the chairman of the county assembly, the mayor, the mayor, can act in the same way, which he will be required to report only afterwards at the next meeting of the body of representatives and the county assembly. We've had experience in this, some of the Fidesz and left-wing city leaders have taken advantage of this situation, and I'm sure many people have heard that. On the basis of the supplement to the Law on Local Taxes, the county municipality of the county of the county of the location of the special economic zone may spend up to 17 percent of the revenue from the tax on its own investments. According to the explanatory statement, this is because the problems caused by the corona virus epidemic and the Russian-Ukrainian war have caused municipalities to face several new challenges in recent years. Increases in energy prices and overhead costs, construction prices and drastic increases in food prices place a heavy burden on municipalities, a burden on budgets and a problem in financing investments. Of course, the Hungarian Movement agrees with all the measures that increase the revenue of the municipalities, but we consider the government's justification to be false, because the government caused the increase of some of the local authorities' burdens. For example, in the context of austerity measures, the municipalities took part of their own revenue and passed on the defence costs to them. Furthermore, according to the government's decision in June, in order to avoid abuse, the rules on the reduction of debts apply only to retail consumers, so that the municipalities are excluded from the list of eligible for the preferential price. The municipalities therefore have to pay a market price for electricity and gas from August onwards. Only the municipal tenements remain under the public utility protection. For example, according to the Fidesz mayor of Balassagyarmat, this means that as long as the gas has been paid 2.1 million HUF per year in the energy-refurbished cradle, it will need to be HUF 9.5 million next year and the electricity price will increase three times. This means a very serious extra cost increase. Based on the calculations of the municipal manager, the annual overhead charge of 135 million HUF may run up to 400-540 million from the 24th day. This is a very harsh and drastic burden for municipalities. Therefore, local authorities will not only be faced with investment financing but also with their daily operation, so we call on the government to provide compensation for local authorities in line with their capacity to bear the burden. From 1 January 2023, the bill raises to the legal level the rates of company car tax published in the Government decree on extra-profit taxes in force from 1 July 2022. Thus, they are incorporated as an annex into the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. The rate of the company car tax will increase by almost 85 percent from July, resulting in the government expecting an increase of HUF 83 billion in motor vehicle tax on the basis of the budget bill of 2023, plus HUF 46 billion of the road toll proportional to the journey and HUF 19 billion of the time-based toll, which will also forecast an increase in car costs. Although the rates of the company car tax have not changed since 30 November 2011, the Hungarian Movement objects to the fact that the government now, when there is such a difficult economic environment, is raising its fee so drastically. We believe that there is no reason to increase the burden on companies to such a drastic extent. In this connection, we would like to note that on 10 June 2022, the Prime Minister told Radio Kossuth that 100,000 small and medium-sized enterprises could remain in the area of debt reduction. However, the 217/2022 Government Decree, which was published on 17 June, is only about micro-enterprises, and I would also like to draw attention to this. In the case of electricity, they can buy 4606 kilowatts per year, while in the case of natural gas they can buy 1489 cubic metres per year at a reduced price. By amending the law on individual trust foundations and their asset relief law, the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation will own the state-owned property number 5192/1 of the Budapest interior. [[13.20]] The chairman of this foundation is Zsolt Hernádi, Chairman and CEO of MOL. Only if we are talking about the foundations, it is worth mentioning this information. The MiHazák Movement disagrees neither with this nor with the additional asset allocation of the so-called model-shifting universities, as trust funds do not have to apply the guarantee rules of national property laws in respect of property granted free of charge. This means that you can dispose of property that you own free of charge from national assets, as I mentioned earlier, within 15 years of the acquisition of property. It is not obliged to use it in accordance with the purpose of the benefit, the exploitation of the transferred property does not need to be reported annually to the entity transferring the property, which is why I mentioned it. Furthermore, we do not support the fact that, according to the budget law bill of 2023, there will be HUF 212 billion more to support non-state higher education institutions next year. It also shows that despite the aim of creating a more competitive, flexible operating model for the model-shifting universities, despite the huge state assets transferred free of charge, they will not be able to manage the market without budgetary support, which, I repeat, the budget has planned HUF 212 billion. We also disagree that, while the government is handing over state property to the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation for free, according to the bill, it takes three important spaces from the municipality of Budapest without compensation, and then transfers them to the municipality of the Fidesz-led Downtown-Lipótváros, Budapest's capital V. district. I just wanted to remember that. The Hungarian Movement considers it a positive sign that it will restore the Minister of Finance's approval for transfers within the chapter in view of the budget deficit target. In accordance with the current provision of the Public Finance Act, the bodies managing the chapter may carry out a transfer of appropriations under their own powers to cover the savings of chapter-led appropriations and allocated public funds, while informing the Minister of Finance at the same time. According to the bill, the transfer will require the Minister of Finance's prior consent, which is certainly a positive sign. In conclusion, I would like to highlight my observation, which I mentioned earlier in the budget debate, that in the future and I am pleased that the budget remnants assigned to these chapterly managed appropriations, which are not visible at the moment in the budget, can be made visible in the future, because, let's say, every year, for example after the closing of the previous year, it was clear that there was a savings of over 700 billion forints left, quite rightly, of these remnants of money, but how and how this is spent, and how the Minister of Finance will think to spend it, so let's say it would always be worth discussing and discussing a planned estimate. Since we do not know how much residual amount this will be each year, it is clearly impossible to place a firm burden on it, it is not possible to define clearly what it is to be spent on as an appropriation, but in a planned way, if any savings are made in this way, then what should be the priority points on which, let us say, the Minister of Finance decides what to spend it for. For example, I have mentioned here on several occasions that it could also increase the wages of teachers, if not otherwise, to prefinance them until the money from the Union is received. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-29-74	I now address Bence of Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-75	Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The bill we're about to discuss is a classic salad law. Various amendments can be found here in bulk, in large quantities, including quite shocking ones. I intend not to start with the part of the bill that caused the biggest storm in the press. Many suspected that this part of the proposal had only been included in the proposal as a kind of rubber bone for distraction, while others said that they would prefer to go backwards in Fidesz rather than forward. Either way, I would like to start with what concerns the pockets of many Hungarians: the proposal to transform the kata. The Salad Act contains certain paragraphs of the Small Tax Act and the Small Business Tax Act, but they are literally identical to the text currently in force, so it is clear that the government plans to modify these legal bases in a shady manner before voting on the bill, at the Committee on Lawmaking, but how they want to amend it, only the government can know that for the time being. So I don't have the opportunity to comment on the government's intention, as you haven't told me yet. We are therefore debating this proposal in such a way that we do not know the Government's intention in relation to the most important part of it. The government is leaving not only me, not just opposition representatives in doubt, but 460 thousand entrepreneurs. They have no idea what the government is planning to do with the Kata. And they have enough trouble without the government. The financial situation of most of them has been shaken by the Covid epidemic and the current livelihood crisis; they do not lack either the tax increase or the exclusion of them from the favourable tax option. You have to make it clear that if ever, this is not the time to tighten up the kata. Hungary is spreading and the livelihood crisis is getting worse. Inflation has been loosened, food prices have risen by up to 20 percent according to the latest data from the HCSO, and fast-track inflation also affects self-employed self-employed people; on the one hand, directly, as their livelihoods are greatly increased and, on the other hand, indirectly, as high inflation reduces purchasing power, which ultimately means that the real income of the cut-offs will decrease significantly and decrease. The impact of the reduced purchasing power affects not only retail consumers, but also invoicing companies, as the decline in demand in the public sector also spills over into the demand of companies, the economy is slowing down and stagflation is threatening. In the present crisis, therefore, when the real income of the stocks is falling anyway, the government must not, by any means, withdraw any additional income from them, either directly, in the form of a tax increase or indirectly, by forcing some of them to choose another form of taxation. And it doesn't make any sense from the point of view of budget revenue that the government is once again forcing the cataclysms into the black economy. If we get past the crisis, it is worth re-exposing the issue of kata, but the Dialogue will not support sanctions and the reduction of cataclysms, as we said in the earlier tightening of the cataclysm by Fidesz, we believe in positive incentives rather than sanctions. If the government wants to make more of these jobs switch to traditional employment, then we recommend to the government that the previous proposal of the Dialogue should not be paid a social contribution tax or a vocational training contribution for two years after a self-employed employee. And our second proposal is that until the median wage, according to the latest data of the KSH, this should reduce the value of Szja to nearly HUF 400,000 to 9 percent, not just for anyone who has become a Katára. We therefore believe that the return to employment of self-employed entrepreneurs should be facilitated by a tax reduction rather than a tax increase. I think that Fidesz, which, according to propaganda, is a party to tax reductions, even if the facts often show the opposite, at least we should consider our proposal. Are you saying that, in the current crisis, there is no possibility of this tax reduction? All right, let's put it at a better time, but let's not at least raise it, let's not increase the tax on the smallest businesses when the business environment is getting worse. It should also be seen as a tax increase if some self-employed people were simply excluded from the category of taxpayers in Katás, as they would have to pay drastically more taxes than before, which they would not be able to transfer to their contractual partners. This would make tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of families impossible by the government, depending on how wide the range of those to be excluded is opened. I would very much ask my fellow pro-government Members and the competent ministry to be humane and not to vote for such an amendment, nor to submit it. If they need extra income, they should rather return to their position a few months earlier on the global minimum tax, which would shift the burden of the crisis to international large companies, multinational giant companies. So I would like to ask you not to increase the burden of Hungarian micro, small entrepreneurs, but of international large companies, if you are already thinking about raising taxes. [[13.30]] In this salad law there are also nonsensical elements such as the fact that if someone is public or participates in a mass event where the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic is present, he may ask to be made unrecognizable in the picture or in the recordings. This is also difficult to interpret, and it is particularly difficult to figure out what it has to do with the budget. What's this for? Will it be possible to retouch Lőrince Mészáros from Viktor Orbán in the VIP box in the Upstairs? Since Fidesz governs, we live in an increasingly strange country, and there are some strange things that simply cannot be explained with reason, there are more of them in this salad bill. It is also important to mention that, according to the bill, the government would state the three important spaces of Budapest, owned by the Municipality of Budapest, Vörösmarty Square, Podmaniczky and Széchenyi Square, as well as József Attila Street, without any compensation. He would do all this to then hand it over to the V. district council. As you all know, the capital is opposition-led, the V. district government is fidesz-led. The Fidesz government therefore thinks of one and takes four important public areas from the opposition capital and hands them over to a Fidesz municipality. What if it's not an amazing example of political pettyness? ! What does Fidesz say to all of us that a law can take anyone's property at any time? This was the last example in Hungary between 1948 and 1952. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: MSZMP!]] And such is a real Fidesz bill, while in one part the government nationalizes the Rákosi-kor, and in the other, it justifies the comic proposal to restore the names of the Ispán and Vármegye by quoting the fact that today's Hungarian administration is linked to the conceptual stock of the Hungarian administration before communism. Thus, while, on the one hand, the government nationalizes the Rákosi era, that is to say, in terms of words and concepts, to the extent of action, its sympathy for the earlier ages. What I do not know is that the members of the Orbán government feel more nostalgic about the Rákosi or Horthy era or even more about feudal relations, but none of them are good news for Hungary. With the 400 HUF euro, travel abroad became unattainable for the average Hungarian families. The Orbán government is therefore trying to treat Hungarian families with different travel opportunities, and this is time travel: back to the Middle Ages. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Oh, come on.]] However, I do not think that Hungarian families would want such a journey. Hungary needs future-oriented, future-friendly governance, not past governance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-29-76	Our next speaker is Mr Antal Csárdi, lead speaker of the LMP Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-29-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The law on the foundation of the budget and indeed, as the leading speakers before me have said, the question here is what is in it and what is not in it, most of all, of what we believe should be in it. It is worth seeing that this bill is full of legislative amendments that are not even relevant to the budget. [[Bence of Turdai is leaving the meeting. Nacsa Lőrinc: This is the dialogueal debate culture.]] Dear Secretary of State, I would like you to be able to tell me how the renaming of the government commissioners to the budget to the Sejpanese and the Archbishop is linked to the budget, how the bill on the photography of the VIP sector is linked to the budget, which allows Prime Minister's guests to make themselves unrecognizable in a completed photograph. It could be a long talk about whether this protects the Prime Minister or his guests. I will not be able to decide this here, but the problem is that instead of going forward, not backwards, the Hungarian government is practically in reverse, and this budget is showing this. Waste management: pushing out the redemption system, pushing out a redemption system that would be much more important to implement as soon as possible. We go back in time, because basically they take property from a local government in a way that quotes communist times, nationalize territories, and put friendly local governments in a position where, by the way, such a decision causes many, many other losses beyond material loss. By losing these areas and the above provision, the capital city also violates its constitutional right to property. And I beg you, don't try to explain that municipal property is state property, and state property is state property, and it's really just a ping-pong between the two. I have listened to this many times in the Metropolitan Assembly, and the justification was wrong even then. But let's keep going. A city planner and Mr. Secretary of State know this exactly as well as I do not happen from one moment to the next. Technically, by losing these areas now, perhaps the capital may be, and I don't know that it has spent hundreds of millions of dollars making plans, which now has fallen into a well from one moment to the next. Tell me, Secretary of State, and I am referring you to these questions because you are here on behalf of the government, and I probably shouldn't have to ask these questions by default, but tell me, Mr. Secretary, when have you sat down to discuss this amendment with the Mayor, the representatives of the Metropolitan Assembly. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, when did you sit down with the district council or mayor? Why wasn't this negotiation transparent, transparent? Why couldn't we have known? Not only are we talking about citizens, poor citizens, my constituency, I haven't even heard it on a gossip level. They were very, very careful not to find out, and I think that's not a coincidence. And of course, there is typically everything in this law that has no place in this law. The fact that Eximbank is practically facilitated by the abolition of capital requirements is relatively difficult to convince me that this will make the national economy work much easier. I think the wealth benefits that the churches receive point to a very, very important problem. According to which practically the Hungarian government is trying to push education and social care into the churches, so that churches have the main task of organizing religious activity, and as my fellow Member Nacsa said, the church is doing its work in a good quality, just to add that the church is getting more money for it, to carry out this public task... [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: No.]] Yes! As in the organisation of public education in the public organisation, what is missing from this bill even arises. This bill clearly lacks a wage increase for civil servants following inflation. This law clearly lacks the creation of a pay table that could show a real career for our teachers, and believe me, Mr Secretary, these are the important decisions. If this year and we see the figures run with inflation above 10 per cent, and the next year with the approximately 8 per cent inflation planned by the Hungarian National Bank, then the value of the salaries of these state workers, civil servants, educators and police officers will begin to fall. [[13.40]] With all due respect, when establishing the budget, where is the guarantee of the livelihood of the people working for the state? so that they can plan, that they can plan their own individual lives, their existence. It's not a request to get rich, they just want to count on the 20th not to be able to buy more bread on the 27th. Mr Secretary of State, that is what is lacking in this law. The law lacks the involvement of multinational companies in taxation. Tax laws have been opened. My fellow Member Fidesz is looking at me for what I'm talking about. I'll explain, Your Honour. I am talking about the fact that today a multinational company does not participate in the Hungarian tax system. It is worth seeing that I have already told you in the debate of other laws, if you look at MOL, Richter or any multinational company's profit tax rate, you will find that this is 0.9 percent for Audi. While an employee pays 15% of his salary as a personal income tax, these multinational companies pay less than 1 percent of their profits after their expenses have been described. But I can also give you an example, for example, at Richter, where, after a profit of 140 billion, you paid a half apartment in Budapest for a profit tax. We are not talking about 9 percent here, fellow Members, but we are talking about 1 and 0.5 percent. [[Róbert Zsigó: Richter pays extra profit!]] I'm going to go to the extra pro. I'm really glad you said that. So we're talking 1 plus 0.5 percent. The fact is that MOL, which is perhaps the largest or at least one of Hungary's largest companies, after a profit of 400 billion, was in a rather strange situation that its profit before tax was lower than its profit after tax. So after you cleared the tax with the state, the profits of this company increased. Yes, I think that if the state wants to carry out its task in a good quality, then it is not possible to make citizens pay the full cost of our common affairs through different types of traffic taxes. I think that, after the profit margin that a large company typically produces here, it can be expected to participate in public burdens. What else is missing from this law? There is a real lack of protection of green areas. Because, for example, from a budgetary point of view, it could be based on protecting our common values, our environmental values. I would just like to point out, Mr Secretary of State and honourable Members, that it is quite recent that mayors in the area of Balaton are extremely concerned because they have begun to agitate on Lake Balaton. I would like to add that this is not random, it is because the shore of the lake is not technically managed in quality. Our reeds are built in, practically cut out, and there are environmental consequences. But this law lacks a one-off salary of HUF 500,000 for employees in the social sector, which they received in health care. I think people in the social sector deserve this, too. Neither Secretary of State nor anyone will be able to give me a meaningful argument as to why these fellow countrymen do not deserve this money. When we talk about tax laws, I would miss the reduction in VAT on basic foods. We know precisely that at a time when inflation hits the basic food most strongly, it is quite unacceptable that the Hungarian government will increase sales-type taxes by more than a quarter, i.e. basic food with VAT. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There could have been a long talk about the Archbishop and all sorts of ridiculous or very sad things, and it would have been long enough to talk about what vision the Hungarian Government was following when it presented the budget to the Hungarian Parliament next year, but unfortunately, I see that this budget points to the past and leads to a breakdown rather than progress. I think I will not surprise Mr Secretary of State by saying that the May Other Politics will not support either the foundational salad law or the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-29-78	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-79	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself. As a spokesperson invited, and also as Chairman of the Budget Sub-Committee of the Committee on Hungarian Nationalities, allow T/360 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2023. I would like to express our committee's position with regard to bill No. I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is T/360. At its meeting held at 10 a.m. on 27 June 2022, the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2023 was put on the agenda and discussed. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution, i.e. house rule 32. § 2 by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against, has decided that the bill has the whole, i.e. 1-232. The Committee would like to hold a detailed debate on the subject. I would like to highlight the following from the points of the bill that concern nationalities, as well as a supplementary proposal for reflection. Point 34 of the Act is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. The proposal to amend law amends the maximum amount of the salary or fees of officials of national minority self-governments. It is within the competence of the General Assembly of national minority self-governments to determine the allocation of the President, Vice-President and other officials, which is in line with previous practice. We would like to see the 2011 CXCV on public finances in paragraph 37. a proposal to amend law would be considered and supplemented as follows: 74. Paragraph 1 of the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law No. 1 Paragraph 74 (c) shall be replaced by the following:. For the purposes of this Act, budget support: from the central sub-scheme of public finances, excluding the financial funds of social security, in cash, not including..., and point (p):, the operating support of national minority self-governments and their institutions, as well as the national minority press. [[13.50]] The proposed amendment, which also divides the position of national authorities, would bring consistency with the fact that, in the Annex to the Central Budget Act, the conditions for granting support to national minority authorities have already been regulated. The additional and specific rules on this should reflect the rules on the operation and management of local authorities. In addition to these, given that the majority of national minority subsidies are included in the draft budget for 2023 in the section of the Prime Minister's Office, it seems natural that, as the titles of other sources, church and cross-border subsidies managed in this chapter are included in the exceptions in the section referred to in the Public Finance Act, we also consider it appropriate to determine the place of national minority subsidies in this section, and we therefore propose to supplement it. Our Commission and myself consider the proposal to be forward-looking 79. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure in question constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. CXCV. In addition to the Act on the basis of which it will be possible for the Minister responsible for public finances, in respect of local national or national minority self-governments, to appoint a budgetary supervisor to carry out a specific task concerning the implementation of the budget and the general rules on farming, after consulting the head of the body or body concerned in advance. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As I have already pointed out in my previous speeches, we would like to examine the proposals raised by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities concerning the provisions of the draft general government law which are not discussed here, as regards the transfer of the remnant and the way in which the subsidies are settled. Finally, allow me to thank both the government and Parliament for their exemplary support to preserve the national identity of national minorities in Hungary, which in recent years has been reflected both in the continuous increase in budget support and through the multi-level support of national education and culture. Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of national authorities and their institutions contributes to the preservation of nationalities in Hungary. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your assistance and cooperation with regard to national resources. Dear Parliament, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[Applause.]]
u2022-06-29-80	Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the speeches made by the left-wing representatives, it is perfectly safe to say that you are watching a completely different movie. [[Zoltán Vajda: Yes! Documentary movie!]] They try to distort reality in a way that clearly requires an answer because it is not true in a noble simplicity. As Ronald Reagan said, the problem with liberals is not that they're ignorant, but that what they know isn't. This is the case with my fellow Members. In particular, I would like to highlight the group leader of the Dialogue, who asked many questions, and told the Secretary of State that he wanted to get an answer to this, and he would like to draw attention to this and ask how he is, and then ran out of this room in the second second second after his speech, not even waiting for the debate, without waiting for the Secretary of State's answer. This is typical of the behaviour of the Dialogue faction, for example, yesterday's debate on the future of the European Union, not so much as to express their views on a very important issue, but usually the Dialogue does not send anyone to important debates about the country's future. Now, let's go in line, ladies and gentlemen. I am very sorry that Antal Csárdi has also left, because he raised very important issues. Mr Vajda said that he thought that the health care framework, the education framework, and the pension envelopes had been reduced. Then I think we should clear the numbers once and for all. Next year there will be HUF 2670 billion in healthcare, which is HUF 1470 billion more than the last bad memory left budget in 2010; HUF 1470 billion in surplus. In 2023, the government spends more than 120 percent more on health care than in 2010. Let's take a look at the education. Education expenditure is over HUF 2378 billion next year, which represents an increase of more than HUF 930 billion compared to 2010. For pensions only 4900 billion forints next year, out of which 370 billion forints are allocated to the budget only for the 13th month pension. You know, Congressman, that's what you've been shutting down. [[Zoltán Vajda: Me?]] Maybe you remember him. The MSZP was the main component of the government, Ferenc Gyurcsány submitted the budget, Ferenc Gyurcsány submitted the bill that abolished the 13th month pension. For example, László Varju voted for it, and several of your factions at the time to stop it. So it is not factually true that there is less money for education, health care or pensions. Let's not talk about family support: next year HUF 3225 billion is available for family support. In your time, it didn't even reach 1000 billion forints, almost three and a half times as much in the budget to support families as it did in your time. Do you know, Congressman, how much of the total family tax relief was paid in your time? 20 billion forints. Twenty billion! In recent years more than 1600 billion HUF remained in Hungarian families thanks to the family tax relief. You feel the difference in scale, don't you? You can measure this in proportion to GDP or in any way, it seems that you have taken the support away from the families, and we will give it back. Therefore, it is not factually true that there is less access to these areas. In fact, I'll give you another good news, a better news. We have managed to keep the budget in balance in recent years, thanks to the heads of the Ministry of Finance and its staff, that each year more resources have been allocated to these priority areas than in the previous year: in 14 there was more than in 13, in 15 there was more than in 14 and so on every year. This is still the case, in such a tight, disciplined situation as this one, there is still more for health care, education, pensions and family support than at any time in your time. In fact, I would venture to add to the budget for health, education and family support in your time, not even the current family support, not even the budget for the three large areas, honourable Member. (Bakos Bernadett in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Berki.) Congressman Csárdi spoke about the issues and developments in Budapest. I would also like to ask Mr Csárdi, as the former municipal representative, what has happened since the capital declared a climate crisis. Did it get colder out there or what? What are the steps? You have declared a climate crisis with great heat, but no resources have been assigned or any measures have been imposed. There is one thing: big guy, and they ask Budapest people to drive less, heat less, or cool less while you ride out of the sea and drive in bus lanes. This is left-wing hypocrisy, honourable Members. Now that we look at the questions of the Archbishop and the county, there are a lot of signs here: ridiculous and clowning. That's how you normally stand in our historical traditions. Basically, if it hadn't passed the time of László Varju, Bence Tordai or Zoltán Vajda [[Zoltán Vajda: Thank God!]] If the time hadn't been right for the speech, in essence, any of you could have said that you would now be presenting an amendment to this budget, because you really want the Presidents of the Council to come back, you want them not to be chief ministers, but to be county council presidents in the current bill. You want that world to come back, and you want to deny 950 years of history. I would like to ask Congressman Vajda, who was a representative of the local government in the period before that, that you heard the mayor or the notary as an accomplice. These are also the achievements of our historical constitutions, and they have also been abolished by your spiritual predecessors. You are the successor party to the party that abolished these terms. You are in politics in the party that is committed to succeeding the Communist Party that has abolished the high-rise, the county, the mayor, the notary, and I could list it. Do you also consider the words of the mayor and the notary to be historical clowns, my honourable fellow Member? I'd like to hear your opinion if you've already had negative comments on these areas. I think those are nice words. It is important that they have been good in the Hungarian administration for 950 years, and we should be proud that a thousand years ago, King St. Stephen founded a state in which these institutions stood the test of time and worked. [[14.00]] The county was the guardians of Hungarian democracy and the guardians of constitutionality in the past centuries, especially since 1848 when they converted to the civilian county with the March 1848 laws. Ladies and gentlemen, Talk about Hungarian history with a little more modesty before they address our historic achievements and our thousand-year-old statehood with such words as clowning and ridiculous. I understand that it is difficult for Tordai Bence, who doesn't have a nation or country to be proud of, if you represent a branch overseas, it is obviously difficult to be proud of a thousand-year-old Hungarian heritage and statehood. But what I am asking of you is that, in particular, on issues like these, you better choose your accents and your words, because I think that all things are debateable, and that is debateable if we debate about them in the way that there is a place and a time. That's all I'm asking of you, and I'm asking you, if we've already convinced you with our arguments, you'll rather support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] (Dr. Andras Aradski in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Gelencsér.)
u2022-06-29-82	Our next regular speaker is Mr László Varju, representative of DK. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-83	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I hoped, especially after today's Committee on Welfare, that I would not have to discuss again with Mr Nacsa Lőrinc, where the possibility was not given for the government to explain in detail why it does not consider certain cost areas to be important. What you have said here, and quoted here, has drawn attention to the fact that, in fact, if you know something wrong, you can blame it on anyone, but the fact that you emphasize it with great strength and even through psychics does not make what you say true. Not even because my fellow Members mentioned or referred to by you did not say what you said. But what I'm saying is that even though you're doing 10 percent, and now we know that there's a higher, 13 percent increase in inflation, compared to this, health costs are increased by 4 percent after last year, and that's what's unacceptable, especially after such an epidemic, after such an epidemic, while I can even say that we're in the middle of this story. You're forgetting that, and I don't want to piss you off and make fun of you, just like you just did, after the death of 46,000 people, it would be your dog's duty to put this health care in order. You don't have to build stadiums instead of hospitals, you have to do decent health care, but you can't do that. They refer to a comparison from 10 to 20 years ago, while, by the way, Hungary received thousands of billions of health improvements from the European Union, of which, for example, 50 percent of you have been stolen from X-ray machines, proven and forgotten a lot of improvements that have not otherwise been made. So don't mess around in that sense, please, with these questions. And you can say the same, can't you, if you had the courage, you would have said that, on average, 7 percent of the European Union is the health budget ratio that needs to be ensured. In Hungary, it can barely reach 5.3 percent. It's not planned, that's what people miss. And I understand, but I can't accept that you chose the method by which you basically privateise health care. Almost everywhere you can get a substantial health service in exchange for payment, but of course it is not a problem for your billion-dollar friends, not for them, but for those hundreds of thousands and millions who otherwise have a pension of less than HUF 136 thousand. Think of them, Congressman, when it comes to paying them, to put ten thousand forints in the doctor's pocket, even if you claim that there is no such thing, because there is, because there is no other way, and there is nothing else you can do. So you've made health care pay, and don't make jokes, don't mess with this. My fellow Member, they do the same with education. Don't make reference to what happened 15 years ago. [[Nacsa Lawrence:!]] Refer to what you are doing now, what you are achieving, that you are able to devote 3.4 percent of GDP to education, with our children coming out of school losing to their Spanish, French and Swedish counterparts when they left school. That's what you've achieved, because otherwise, you're cutting down education and not creating an opportunity. So, you know, Congressman, you've brought out from me what I didn't want to do for you this afternoon, but I would also add that you should be proud, please, that teachers should add an additional HUF 16 500 to the guaranteed minimum wage. You know, you should be proud of that, and you should be very proud of that at the time, and not with my fellow Members, who, by the way, have actually said what they have submitted here in connection with the law. You're gonna have to deal with this, please. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-06-29-84	Our next regular speaker is Congressman Zoltán Vajda, MSZP. Here you go.
u2022-06-29-85	Thank you very much for the floor. The normal comment, I think, is a technical term, but I will try, unlike Congressman Nacsa, to comment in a normal way. I would certainly suggest a little less volume for Congressman Nacsa, a little less arrogance, a little less communism, and I certainly wish you a little more professional knowledge and a little more sleep. I see you've had a long day. I saw yesterday morning that you were already on TV early this morning, perhaps even that lack of sleep remains today. Yesterday he was on TV, and there he began to say the usual mantra, how everything was faithful, very cool, and then there was war inflation, and he talked about everything, and when it came to exchange rates, and he started saying that it was also a regional problem, then I noticed the reporter's question maybe twice, but as if the currency was not falling elsewhere in the region, the money was talking about Polish money, and then it was as if you had blocked, as if you had saved your frustration here. But if professionalism really should be far from me to say it in a instructive tone, then let me help you with a small economic, say, 5th grade minimum information, when comparing the nominal numbers for 2010 with the nominal numbers for 2022 or 2023, and you say that if one thousand and the other two thousand, then there are thousands more. Do you mind if I give you a little bit of a hint in the nominal and real numbers that it's worth making comparisons with real numbers over a long period of time, because it takes out the impact of inflation? So if you compare two nominal numbers, one 2010 and one 2022, then you can tell a lot of differences, only the impact of inflation cannot be put into it. In your relatively funny comment, you quoted Ronald Reagan as saying who was telling the truth and who wasn't. Speaking of Ronald Reagan, I checked the salary of two American presidents. I really don't want to be such a teacher uncle to you, because I would take the liberty of doing so, but if you would just listen for a moment, my fellow Member Nacsa, I would say to you the salary of two American presidents in nominal dollars. May I? Because you said American presidents. Okay? So let's just say I'd like to talk to you about William Howard Taft, and his annual salary was $75,000 in dollars. I'm telling you, he was president of the United States in 1909. Obama, to say another president, let's say his salary for 2013, but it's nice to write it down, and he made $400,000. So William Howard Taft made $75,000 in 1909 and Obama made $400,000 in 2013. If you were to tell me now how much the 2010 and 2023 governments spent on education and health, then by analogy, you would have to say that we're subtracting $75,000 from $400,000, then Obama made $325,000 more, and then we're done. [[14.10]] And then there'd be a little, not a lecture, just in case you have a little basic knowledge to help, and then with the volume you're not trying to compensate for the lack of knowledge, so if you put inflation into this, then in real terms, that means that your salary for $75,000 to Taft today is actually $1.9 million. So, in the long term, inflation has such effects, and it is not worth saying nominal numbers in a teenage period, because, as to put it, it is fooling voters, and I am sure that the voters of the KDNP fact should not be fooled. That's why I'm always embarrassing to say the figures in terms of GDP, so I'm here to help you, so I'm gonna say again, in terms of GDP, let's say, three items of expenditure in proportion to GDP. If we spent 5.49 percent of GDP on educational activity in 2010 and 3.47 percent of GDP in 23rd grade, then there is no math here but that means that we are now spending 37 percent less of GDP. If we spent 4.55 percent on health care in 2010 and 3.9 percent in 23rd grade, then there is no other math than that you spend 14 percent less on health care in proportion to GDP. And the third issue is that if we spent 10.45 per cent of GDP in 2010 and 7.15 per cent of GDP in 2010 and 23, then there is no other math than that we spend 31 per cent less of GDP on pensions than we did in 2010. Math is that simple, and I really don't want to talk in a teaching tone, but nominal numbers are worth talking about over a long period of time. I can make a nominal comparison, too, because I'm happy to do it anyway, because you can say that if we talk about the numbers of the Bokros package I have no problem talking about the Bokros package, then we're talking about about about about 15 times the amount of the Bokros package adjustment in next year's budget. If we recall, something around 170 billion would have originally been the Bokros package, which, due to all legal problems, may have become about 140 billion, well, the 2000 billion then, of course, I say that professionalism is preserved in nominal terms, counting 15 times the Bokros package, your government is planning for our country. If we remember how insanely painful the Bokros package was, then this adjustment, this austerity, this Orbán package, this big package, so that of course we don't joke about people's names, then it's 15 times that. That's what I think when we compare nominal numbers, dear colleague. And finally, if I have one more minute, I would just like to ask you, when, I hope, Mr Secretary, I will be honoured by your reflection on what has been said, you spoiled me the last time, and thank you very much for asking me to.. I was talking about a lot of things, a parentheses sentence: of course I wasn't talking about wanting to go to the beach, and I'm sorry if I went to the beach, but I was talking about how much more meaningful it would be if we didn't do it in the summer. I wasn't afraid of my own freedom, either as chairman of a Committee on Budgets or as a Member here, but I was afraid of my country if we adopted a budget so soon. So I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, I have thought about what kind of expression I should use now, but I still have to say Secretary of State, right, because I do not have such thoughts of the Archbishop, so I have not spoken about them in my speech, so, Mr. Secretary, with respect, I would like to ask you that when I hope that you will honour me with your answer, then of the many things that I have said, if you do, that you do one thing and react professionally: what do you think is possible to argue that we will adopt the budget six months earlier than normal European countries? I can accept that there may be such calm moments when this may be comforting to the market, but at such an extremely difficult time, what professional argument can you make in addition to that is right and not that much later? And in connection with that, if you do accept it now, I see that this is going to happen, then do you not see the reason why the budget has to be revised already? for example, inflation, so that I do not always say just the euro exchange rate. If, for inflation, the Hungarian National Bank is not me, it is not the Communists, or I do not know what Congressman Nacsa is saying, when he is running out of arguments, but the Hungarian National Bank is saying a 6.8-9.2 percent inflation rate next year, the lower limit of which is far beyond 5.2, and I indicate that this year's inflation prognosis has been increased by about 3 percent in three months, from about 7.5-10 percent to about 11-13 percent. So in three months there was such an increase, and they're already talking about 6.8-9.2, once again, the lower limit is far more than the plan. So I'm gonna finish my thought: do me a favor and argue why you need it so soon. And if you do so soon, will you be reworking the budget now? Thank you so much for letting me tell you. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2022-06-29-86	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see any other candidates; the general debate is closed. On behalf of the author, Mr Péter Benő Banai has the opportunity to reply. You'll take that opportunity, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-29-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear Parliament, We have heard a number of comments in the debate that relate not to the foundation of the budget law of 2023, directly before you, but to the budget of 2023 itself and to the government's economic policy. Allow me to respond to these comments, and, of course, I will also try to address those specific parts of the bill before you, which we have just discussed. I will start with what President László Varju said at the beginning of his speech and what Mr Zoltán Vajda mentioned at the end of his speech, namely, whether the adoption of the budget of 2023 and the underlying rules related to it will help predictability or not. We have often said in the debate on next year's draft budget law, and I repeat that in our opinion it helps to plan businesses and to plan families by knowing six months before the calendar start of 2023 what tax rules and budget spending programmes are those with which they can calculate next year. Not only is it my personal opinion that the previous budget helps planning, but I would like to recall, for example, the position of representatives of nationalities and advocates in previous budget negotiations, that, for example, when planning national support, it helps them to know what expenditure they can expect. For example, in the case of state-funded investment programmes, applications can be issued much earlier than the year in question. Businesses who have to plan in a changing world know what tax rules they are facing, and these arguments, which were made in the budgetary debate every previous year, are now added to the argument that I am not saying, but President László Domokos, who said that in a changing world just that stability needs to be strengthened and that the adoption of a previous budget and previous tax law can strengthen this stability in an unpredictable world. So I think there are some arguments, if you will, in favour of adopting an early budget. However, let me draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to two things here. On the one hand, more people are saying European practice. If we look at Europe, we know that every Member State is obliged to prepare medium-term budgetary planning. And let us look at European practice, where medium-term corner numbers are recorded in the spring, if any. Thus, detailed budget planning, which is characterised by Hungarian practice, is in fact in very few places in the European Union, but medium-term planning, where a deviation from the figures set a year earlier must be demonstrated in a number of countries in the medium term, not six months in a given year. This is one of the things I wanted to emphasise that it is not obvious that there is planning before the start of the calendar year, as I repeat: a medium-term, multi-annual budget must be drawn up in all European countries, and these multi-annual outlooks have a varying nature, but they have a binding force in many areas. The other item I would like to mention is that there is no doubt that there is greater uncertainty than usual everywhere in the immediate vicinity of a Russian-Ukrainian war. [[14.20]] At the same time, the budget can also prepare for uncertainties, which is why next year's draft budget law estimates HUF 170 billion in the allocation of extraordinary government measures. This may cover unexpected expenditure or compensate for any revenue shortfalls. The second point concerned inflation, also mentioned by Mr László Varju and Mr Zoltán Vajda. I am very pleased that Congressman Zoltán Vajda has put in place the numbers mentioned by Mr László Varju. If I have written it right, then Congressman has said that the central bank is expecting inflation above 10 percent next year. No, according to the calculations published yesterday by the central bank, as has been said, inflation is projected to be 6,8-9 percent in the next year. The central bank also states that this inflation could reach the central bank target in 2024 and the tolerance band that the central bank sets. With regard to inflation, it is very important to note that, yes, planning is difficult in a war environment. At the same time, it is not a Hungarian speciality. Many people are attacking the term war inflation. I am convinced that what we see in Europe is war inflation. I repeat the latest Eurostat data. For example, in Estonia there is inflation above 20 percent, but in all neighbouring countries we see higher rates than Hungarian inflation. Do you have to rework the budget or not? I don't think we need to rework because of inflation. If Mr Zoltán Vajda considers professional responses to be important, then, on the one hand, I must say that the legal system ensures that inflation-related expenditure can be financed. It is a strong enough commitment by the government and would like to make sure that if inflation is higher than planned, pensioners will receive an increased inflation benefit. I would add that next year, according to the draft budget law, the 13th month pension will also be paid in full. And we hope that the increase will exceed the 3.5 percent level, in which case the pension premium will be paid. That's the first important thing. The second important thing that I have to say about the budget as a whole is that, if wages increase, and labour market developments show that wages will rise not only this year but also next year, and are expected to rise above inflation, consumption revenues will also increase. So we can count not only on extra expenditure, but also on additional revenues. If we look a little further away and, in addition to inflation, we recall the figures that the central bank published yesterday, I would remind everyone that this year's economic expansion was given a range of 4.5-5.5 percent. In terms of average, this is significantly higher than the 4.7 percent increase in next year's budget, so let's also talk about the fact that the central bank is likely to have a larger economic expansion for this year. This could lead to more budgetary revenues for this year as a whole and, if you will, to more tax revenues as a base effect next year. If we are concerned about inflation and Member László Varju expressed his concern, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in next year's Budget Act, the Rezségvédelmi Alap precisely aims to ensure that household expenditure, including pensioners, remains unchanged for the next year. So if we consider it important to take action against inflation, then the intention of next year's draft budget law in this war-inflationary environment should be explicitly supported by left-wing representatives who are concerned about losing income. Mr László Varju said that inflation would be above 15% without measures; then, Mr President, I feel from his words, he also supports the measures that were not previously supported by left-wing parties, which are aimed at keeping inflation in check, whether it is the fuel stop or the reduction of the costs already mentioned. Mr László Varju said that he included the elements of the Orbán package, a direct tax increase, on the basis of the bill establishing next year's draft budget law. That's what Congressman said. I don't see a direct tax increase on families in this bill before you. Here again was the expression "suppression" and "suppression" of people. [[Laszlo Varju: Company car tax!]] Yes, the congressman said that he was....suppressing, hurting people. If you mean the company car tax, Mr President, thank you very much, it has been the same rate for ten years. It's been the same for ten years. Mr Zoltán Vajda mentioned inflation. Let's see how the profitability of Hungarian companies has evolved, see how the nominal value of the company car has lost its value, and see what position the companies are in. I think, thanks to government economic policy, thank God, today we are talking about the number of people employed at historical heights. Thank God, we are talking about the expansion of the Hungarian economy in the last year. Thank God, we are talking about an outstanding increase in the first quarter, of 8.2 percent. Thank God, the Hungarian economy, based on public statistics, is also strong in Europe. I do believe that there is a place where the unchanged level of company car taxation for at least ten years does not fully follow the change in inflation. If Congressman László Varju considers it important to grow the poorer layers, then in tax matters there is no austerity or abuse in the bill before you, but a discount. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the change in the personal income tax law concerning a job-seeking allowance. According to this, people who receive job search grants can benefit from personal income tax benefits, family discount, personal discount, first-wives' discount, the benefit of mothers who have four children, and the benefit of young people under the age of 25 if the honourable Parliament accepts the government's proposal. Rezsi is still, last sentence. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Gas and flash are our priority because the impact of war is a radical increase in price. These are the services where targeted and meaningful intervention is needed to protect reduced consumer and residential prices. If I said water, sewers, waste, then let me argue with Mr László Varju's opinion that the public supply of waste management would undermine municipal tasks. Well, I think that the adoption by the State of a service requiring additional budgetary resources, public expenditure, requiring intervention, takes on a burden from the municipalities. I repeat, the waste management task means budget expenditure. This is included in the draft budget law for next year. With this service, I believe that the financial situation of the municipalities is more favourable than the situation without intervention. Congressman László Varju still said that we are increasing the price of medicines. Well, how do I put it, no matter how much I research, I look for the relevant provisions in the bill before you, or in the budget bill of 2023, I simply can't find it. So there is no such provision. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2018!]] On the subject of health, Mr President, in his last comment, Mr President, he said that the sources in the pocket of doctors, which today characterize Hungarian health care, are in the hands of doctors. Mr President, the draft budget law of 2023 does not only carry forward the wage increase that doctors have decided earlier, but also keeps in place the regulation that no gratuity money can be given. I believe that, at the same time, we have managed to raise the wages of doctors significantly, as a result of this, the number of doctors employed in the public sector has increased, and in addition, in a decade-long context, it is unfair to put an end to the situation and to abolish the institution of gratuity money. [[14.30]] So when we are critics of the results of the past years, I would like to ask you to recall how long the thanks money has characterized Hungarian health care, and when it has been able to change it so that it has benefited all Hungarian families, all Hungarian citizens. The Eximbank case has been brought up by several people. I would like to note that the bill before you leaves the general capital requirements for both the Eximbank and the Development Bank. These two institutions are special financial institutions, both of which are subject to specific rules at EU level. Within the general capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy rules are amended. In our view, this does contribute to the expansion of lending activity and thus to the expansion of the economy. As regards comments on civil society organisations. Here I fully agree with Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. We're talking about a national fund. It's in his name. If all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, and this is our public-law obligation, then it must be possible to accept applications from Hungarian organisations across the border. I believe that any motion that strengthens national cohesion must be supported in a national emotional Parliament, in a parliamentary majority where the mandate of voters is clear. And for information, it is a few percent of the resources of the National Cooperation Fund that reach organisations of Hungarians across borders. All the average aid received does not typically exceed the level of three million referred to by Mr Nacsa Lőrinc, but it is smaller amounts. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, in relation to his comments which I have not yet touched on, let me say that when the opinion of the central bank and the government is the same, we get the criticism that the independence of the central bank is not justified, because he thinks the same as the government. And when you have some other opinion, you get the criticism that the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank think otherwise on economic policy issues. In fact, let me say that there is a fair professional cooperation on the relations between the central bank's managers, the staff of the central bank and the staff of the government. Regardless of who is running the central bank or who is running the various government bodies, I think it is our duty to cooperate, as is the case everywhere in the world, that legally independent governments and central banks maintain a meaningful dialogue; this dialogue is there, and I believe that the result of this dialogue is that we were able to bring the Hungarian economy on a significant growth path in 2021 after the coronal virus epidemic. We hope that this growth can continue in our cooperation. To mention this, let me argue with what Congressman said. He said that the Hungarian economy was found in a weakened state by the war. I don't want to waste time with the data, I repeat, I don't think that's true. I agree that war is also a major challenge for the Hungarian economy. Congressman said that the government is on the banks' side. Please ask the banks about this. Look at our economic policy measures after 2010. I repeat, it is in our fundamental interest that it should be a healthy banking system, but it may not be possible for the Hungarian government to involve banks in public burdens, especially at a time when, as Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa once again said, a very significant interest rate result will be realised in the banking sector as a result of the inflation and central bank measures that they have not expected. The Member said that the tax burden on young workers without children is the highest in the region. I don't see any factual evidence of that. So I am happy to take any comparison showing the tax burden on the Hungarian and neighbouring countries. The absence of children under the age of 25 is part of the current legal system; 15 per cent, in an international comparison, is low; and what is important is that the Member mentioned young people without children, but if young people are having children, we are helping children with a high level of family support at European level. The congressman asked about the comments on the property. I would like to reassure the Member that this is a technical amendment. The amendment does not normally impose rules on the execution of real estate enforcement procedures and private claims on movable property, but aims to ensure consistency between the closure and other enforcement procedures imposed in criminal proceedings. Mr Endre Tóth talked about the amendment of the Ptk., about the relationship that this has with the draft budget law; the same was mentioned by Mr Bence Tordai, namely the rules on online videos of government-political leaders, state officials and parliamentary representatives. In the expo, I told you that the bill before you is a direct and indirect link to the budget. This part is indirectly linked to the budget. The proposal includes the right to use photographs and recordings of Members of Parliament, and this right of use will now be transferable free of charge thanks to the amendment and does not constitute prohibited State aid. These issues therefore concern public finances. As regards the recordings made in the environment of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, let me read what the reasons for the proposal before you include: in the event of the production of a picture or sound recording in conjunction with the dignity of public law, the legislator alone assumes in future the consent to the publication of these images and recordings because of participation in the event, but the data subject may request that the recording be made unrecognizable within a specified period. With regard to the acquisition of three metropolitan-owned real estates by the State, please allow me to state that, in recent years, the State has transferred real estate free of charge to municipalities. There was no uproar at the time. Several questions have now been raised. Member Endre Tóth also and several spoke out about this provision from the bill. Let me tell you that the tasks of the public area supervisor in relation to Podmaniczky Frigyes tér and Vörösmarty tér have been carried out by the V. district municipality instead of the capital since 2014, while the cleaning of the squares has been largely carried out and performed by the V. district municipality since the autumn of 2019. In addition, the latter was put in writing by the capital city with an agreement concluded on 28 April 2022. Thus, tasks are performed by the V. district municipality in respect of the two mentioned spaces. At the same time, neither the previous agreements nor the agreement that is still in force today have provided for the transfer of the property or other financial assets necessary for the performance of the tasks. In the case of Podmaniczky tér and Vörösmarty tér, it can be said that the roads surrounding the squares, public areas, are 100% owned by the V. district municipality, and that access to the squares is possible only through the V. district-owned streets and areas. Accordingly, the development, maintenance, operation and improvement of infrastructure of spaces can only be envisaged in a uniform system, but in practice this cannot be achieved at present because of a different ownership approach, which may also jeopardise the public interest. In fact, let me tell you that both Podmaniczky Square and the Vörösmarty Square and the V. district areas and streets surrounding the squares were renovated in 2019 with state aid not by the capital but by the V. district municipality of the capital city of Belváros-Lipótváros, Budapest. So I think that the V. district municipality has already carried out serious tasks in terms of the two spaces. Széchenyi István tér connects to the downtown public area, so the image and operation that are consistent with them, I think, again connects Széchenyi Square to District V. This justification gives rise to the fact that these three spaces would be owned by the State under the operation of District V. [[14.40]] With regard to Mr Zoltán Vajda's resources of EUR 40 billion for the period 2021-27, he said that we are playing with the euro, or, if I have written it right, he used the word "pitás" with Minister Tibor Navracsics. Here, Congressman, allow me to reject these words, even if that is a cornered wording. So we're not playing games, and we're not playing games. It's a national interest that we have to stand for, and the government is empowered to do so, and we stand in national interest. I have been personally involved in European Council discussions quite a lot, I personally know how decision-making works, what the textbook decision-making described in the books looks like in reality, and I know exactly what every government that gives itself, whether it is right-wing or left-wing, stands up for its national interests. That's what we do. At the same time, I agree with Mr President, and I fully agree with Mr President, that it is in our interest that this amount of EUR 40 billion will actually be used and that we will receive these funds. But the fact that we fully accept without control what we say, the European Commission, which does not have a legitimacy mandate from voters, so we accept everything that it says, I do not think it means representing the national interest. As far as the EUR 40 billion is concerned, this is the total amount that Mr President has said, including, for example, agricultural subsidies, such as land-based subsidies, which I know there is no debate with the European Commission. So what I am asking is not to talk about the total amount of EUR 40 billion, but only about the EUR 7 billion available under the RRF and the resources of the Partnership Agreement. I repeat, I hope that we will come to an agreement, which is why we are counting on these resources in budget 2023. I repeat what I said in the debate on next year's draft budget law, that if there is a consensus that it is in Hungary's interest that these funds should be available as soon as possible, then there can also be consensus that we will do everything we can to ensure that these funds are actually available through right- and left-wing benches, including MEPs. I would like to thank you if you are also using your contacts to facilitate the early agreement on this matter. As a weakness in the budget, Mr President mentioned the fourth quarter of last year's government deficit compared with other countries. However, I draw attention to the fact that budget deficits in different countries are completely different. In our fourth quarter, historically, however, there is a stronger deficit due to the specific features of the tax system, the fiscal support system. However, I also draw attention to the fact that the deficit was 6.8 per cent compared to the target of the 7.5 per cent revised EU methodology, and if we look at a European outlook, we need to put the growth number next to it, which is extremely good at European level, and also that, thanks to the deficit and growth, the debt ratio has fallen, as opposed to many European countries where debt is still growing. As far as VAT and property revenues are concerned, the fact that we are counting on higher amounts in both areas next year is not, obviously, due to tax increases, I said that in contrast, there is still a deficit reduction in the bill before you, but also due to the fact that, in our opinion, the number of employees may increase, consumption may increase, and, as a result, revenues will increase. So I repeat: there is no direct VAT change or income tax measure affecting families, which, I repeat, would negatively affect families. Prosperity spending: here you have pointed to a very important point, Member. On the one hand, welfare expenditure has a wide range of numbers, nominal numbers, GDP-related numbers or real numbers. Let me tell you that Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa was ambitious, perhaps not as long as I was, but he was absolutely precise about how the number of expenditure areas varies. If we listened to what Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa said, took notes, wrote down the change in nominal number and added the inflation number of the last 10 to 12 years, then we know exactly that there has been a significant increase in real value in many areas. If we say health care, I will say by heart, more than quadrupled nominally the wages of the health sector, the many-mentioned medical and nursing wages, I repeat, quadrupled. Cumulated inflation between 2011 and 2023, I'm taking the number 23, and the significant number 22 is about 46 percent, as I recall. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 300 percent!]] So it's less than 50 percent. So a quadruple of health wage expenditure, or a Member, said the issue of health care as a whole... the expenditure of the health sector as a whole is also increasing well above inflation. As far as spending on GDP is concerned, Congressman recalled to two American presidents the nominal... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2022-06-29-88	It's been 30 minutes for former Secretary of State, but we're giving you the opportunity to finish your thought.
u2022-06-29-89	I'm sorry for the thoughtlessness. Then I would also recall that if we kept the GDP-related figures, we would still have a deficit of around 7 percent, and we could not expect taxes to drop. So I do not think it is appropriate to absolute GDP, but to look at the changes that have been made in real understanding. Finally, allow me to thank you for your comments. We are always open to improving the system of laws establishing the budget. We are also open to consultation on the motion of the Bulgarian ethnic advocate, Mr Varga Simeon. However, I think that overall it is appropriate to maintain the direction that will be laid down in the foundation of next year's budget law, as this will ensure that future family support expansion, public security and defence expenditures are implemented, with a sustainable growth and a stable budget in 2023. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-29-90	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Representative László Varju, representative of DK, has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-29-91	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I use the opportunity to report in order how a local government can find an appropriate opportunity to improve people's lives in a restrictive environment. I can take one of the best examples of this from Újpest, my constituency, where I can talk about a thriving district, either in small letters or in emphasis, because we have started a program that we are trying to implement in the framework of the. [[14.50]] This already existed in 2020, and we are also pleased that this is not only a district, but also a much more widespread one, and since then we can also meet with this at the title "Budapest Vadvirágos." We, Újpestians, believe that in the urban environment, the future is becoming increasingly popular among diverse wildflower plant associations, and I find that it is becoming increasingly popular among the Újpestians. The model in Újpest, which has already been found in eight priority locations, has been noticed by many, and by the way, perhaps with some boasting I can say that this initiative has also won a prize at the. Our project works in the more densely-built parts of the city, even in residential areas or on dividing lanes between roads. These experiments, I think, cannot be accused with malice of the existence of a sea of weeds here, but rather of the wildflower opportunity. We have planted carefully selected, pre-educated plants in these areas and have achieved spectacular results already in the first year; and it has also received proportionate support from the public, not to mention insects that feed heavily in our beds. I think it's safe to recommend this to other areas, and I'd be happy to do that, and I'll show it to you. In this way, we can contribute to living in Newpesten, a greening capital, so that we can live our days. In addition to the territorial possibilities, I would like to draw attention to the fact that anyone actually has the opportunity to do so either in their own territory or on a balcony. I can offer this good news and this opportunity to everyone. We can plant wildflowers, nectar-rich plants on our balcony, plant insect hotels in flower boxes, and continue all this, because we do a lot for our environment. That's what I can recommend to you today. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you, Madam President.
u2022-06-29-92	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place on 4 July 2022. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
