u2022-06-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting between 20 June and 24 June 2022. The letter and its annex, as well as the motion of the Fidesz Group, were made available on the website to supplement the agenda for the extraordinary meeting. Dear Parliament, There will now be contributions before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Péter Ungár, leader of the group, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Overall, the process since 1990, which has been the process of EU integration, has brought Hungary a great deal of benefits, and in the ruins of the planning economy, there has been an economy in which people have more freedom. The fact is that the last 12 years have actually been about successfully including the country in the international neoliberal economic system, but very little has been said about the disadvantages that have been caused by the past 30 years. The Hungarian manufacturing industry has ceased, and because of the brain drain, we are training people who cannot find their calculations in Hungary because of the Western wage advantage. Economist Thomas Piketty said that he recently calculated that as much money Hungary receives from the European Union as a subsidy, so much money will be taken out as a profit by Western companies. In fact, this balance is null and void. The fact is that Hungary has been forced to sell state assets to Western Europeans since 90, let Western companies in and open its borders to foreign goods and foreign capital. The problem is that the restriction of this process was not at the heart of the policy of the past period. We, the Greens, think that instead of the principle of four freedoms, which is the basis of the European Union, the principle of three responsibilities, it would be possible to build a European Union on the basis of the principle of three responsibilities, which is not based on neoliberalism. These three are responsibility for consumers, responsibility for nature, responsibility for Earth and responsibility for society. What is the actuality of this now? We see that the Foreign Minister has also announced that Hungary is now in conflict with the United States and most of the European Union Member States in order to reach out to the Audi and the other multinationals who cannot increase their tax burden. What you will set out as a matter of sovereignty is a question of so-called global multi-tax, not in fact of Hungarian sovereignty, but of the fact that the companies you have brought here, who have been removed from the burden of public burdens in the framework of strategic partnerships, do not have to raise their corporate tax. The whole economic policy is based on the German capital being served, the Prime Minister voting in the interests of German capital at the Council meeting, in the same way as the German Chancellor 97 percent [[Bence Rétvári: Are we pro-European or anti-European?]] And they're doing everything they can to keep the German capital from increasing its tax burden. The Hungarian people agree with the global minimum tax, but not that you reject it, they do not agree that it is more important for you to pay the Audi 9 percent corporate tax than to raise, say, the wages of civil servants. The whole debate that you are going to set up once again as a lies debate on sovereignty is that you believe that Hungary should participate in the international competition in such a way as to obtain as little money as possible from companies who have the most. The multi-taxes that are sometimes levied, if the budget is in a bad situation, are dwarfed by the thousands of billions that you have not collected from the polluting large companies or from other multinational corporations. If you look at how much tax burden the Audi has on other large German companies and how much, let's say, a hairdresser, they will see that while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are burdened and are now preparing to be burdened even more, while multinational corporations, those who have the opportunity to pay for it, do not increase their tax burden, they are now also fighting internationally so that the Audi and the others do not have to take part in the public burden in a real way. This is also the case because you are trying to make every move seem to be driven by Hungarian interests. It is not in Hungarian interest that German capital should not pay taxes. It's a German interest. This is not in the interests of this House, this is in the interests of the Bundestag; if you want to represent it, you must speak about it there. Overall, our position is that global multi-tax is good because of one thing, although I know that there is a global word in it that you do not like: because it also includes multi and tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-20-2	Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, His pre-meeting comment gives me the opportunity to start partly further, partly by expressing my admitted subjective opinion, the essence of which is that I believe that we see the world fundamentally differently. I clearly remember the conditions of 25-30-35 years ago, when Hungarian society was clearly, decisively and infused with unemployment and the loss of its security of life, so for us, the civil government, the Christian Democratic-Fidesz government, from the very first moment, it was crucial that all the jobs and employers previously sold by left-wing governments in various privatization waves were largely taken back into foreign hands, partly because they were strategically decisive for the Hungarian economy, not in one case monopolistic companies, and also because it was possible to restore the safety of Hungarian society, the Hungarian people, and to achieve that unemployment, which was well above 10 percent 12 years ago, is now below 4 percent. Yes, this includes multinational corporations, including western and German companies, which invested in Hungary and created jobs. Closing sign: they brought technology, technology, trade relations, export performance, export potential in addition to workplaces. I consider it to be very important, and it is one of the fundamental issues of today's situation that all these strategic elements, such as those suitable for energy production, energy storage, energy distribution, have been bought back by the Hungarian State. [[13.10]] We have bought back or held in Hungarian hands the companies that are vital for the Hungarian economy. The current situation also makes us feel that in this current economic climate of war, we should do everything possible to ensure that the Hungarian families do not pay the price of the war, but that the multinationals pay the increased costs. That's why we introduced four price-stop policies, fuel, overhead, food and interest-stop systems. Therefore, I do not believe that you are justified in what you have said. You have been particularly kind to address the issue of the global minimum tax. We have also seen in the last few days that we have heard that the left has joined the international campaign on the global minimum tax. There are at least two things for us: one is that they would take important powers out of the hands of the national government again; the other is that they are constantly trying to raise their taxes. This proposal is not about taxing the extra profit accumulated in recent months, but about raising the tax burden on businesses on a long-term basis, with all its consequences. That is why we do not support the global minimum tax. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The teachers' wages are expected from Brussels... the president's signaling to Ágnes Kunhalmi.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman Kunhalmi, thank you very much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're welcome!]] The introduction would mean doubling the tax burden on businesses, which now represents an average of 7.5 percent. Have you considered how it would affect investment in Hungary if corporate tax levels doubled in Hungary? I'm asking you how you've done your calculations on this. Have you considered that the EU would introduce this tax and that other economically strong regions in the world would not? Have you considered that this proposal could be beneficial to high tax countries, which would reduce Hungary's competitive advantage? Honourable Congressman, Once again, I suspect that they will adapt their policies to foreign expectations, at the expense of Hungarian citizens. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] I ask you, especially now, in the shadow of war, not to think about it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-4	I now give the floor to Bence of Turdai.
u2022-06-20-5	[[His mic won't say.]] Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Allow me to welcome our Turkish guests from the city of Finike. Yesterday was Father's Day, and it seems that this holiday is supported through parties and political sides, because it is not only... [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including: No voice! Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among them: "It's okay! It's okay. It's okay.]]
u2022-06-20-6	He put his own on, something's wrong. [[They put a portable microphone in front of Bence of Turda.]]
u2022-06-20-7	Then I'd like the clock restored.
u2022-06-20-8	Please, let's start over.
u2022-06-20-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I welcome the representatives of the city of Finike, Budapest II. from the Turkish town of his district. So yesterday was Father's Day, which seems to have grown into a celebration across parties and political sides. This is at least demonstrated by the fact that the opposition side and the highest level of public-law dignity of the government side have also remembered it, especially Mayor Gergely Christmas [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] and Katalin Novák, head of state. So it seems that we all consider it important to recognize men as fathers and to support them in taking on a greater role in raising children, in the work around the family, in reproductive work. This is why it is welcome that in 2019 the European Parliament adopted a directive on the balance of work and private life, which states, among other things, that the parental leave in the event of childbirth should be increased for at least 10 days or 14 days for twins. This is exactly the double of today's regulations in Hungary. The Dialogue has always supported feminist initiatives as a green party, and this is how it is, as it supports men at first sight, and really helps us to be more sensitive, very important, very intimate, with our children after their birth, but it also helps mothers not to remain on their own in these difficult days and weeks when the unity of the family is perhaps more important than any other time. That is why the Dialogue considered it important to present a legislative amendment to introduce a doubling of father's day in accordance with the EU directive, i.e. the amount of parental leave in accordance with the EU directive. This would not be unprecedented for European countries, even in those states, in those Member States with the most successful family policy, where the highest rate of reproduction, where population loss is the slowest, we see that they support a period of four to ten weeks so that fathers can be at home after the birth of their children. In Austria, which you often refer to as an example here in Hungary, Papamonast was introduced, when it is possible to go for a month in particular, not for unpaid leave, but with EUR 700 a day [[Sic!]] The state supports that fathers should be at home and that the community, the national community, must also be involved in the burden of childbearing. You're supposed to be pursuing a family-friendly policy, and I wouldn't begin to debate this in order to maintain a constructive atmosphere, I wouldn't talk about which families are being given greater support, and where it is needed most, why there is less financial support, I wouldn't talk about how successful this family policy is when we see that we are perhaps facing the lowest birth numbers of all time. Let's put these aside for a moment and find out what we can agree on. I believe that greater social and family involvement of fathers seems to be a goal that you can support or support. This is also indicated by the votes of their MEPs, or perhaps last year's epidemic, in which fathers and mothers posted photos where they drew attention to the importance of attachment in the early months, so where the father carries his newborn baby on his heart, stomach or on his back, depending on his size. So maybe there's a national consensus on this issue. It may seem like a small thing to double from 5 to 10 or 7 to 14 days of parental leave, but I think this is a step in the right direction. Maybe it's a step in which you don't start bringing up your usual onion genderideology accusations. And I am all the more optimistic, because I would quote literally that when the government responded to my press conference this weekend, the Ministry said that the government would, of course, comply with its obligations under EU law. This means that until August this year we will introduce a doubling of father's day. So you can hope that you will support my motion for a father's maternity leave or increase it? I await your reply, thank you very much.
u2022-06-20-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vályos, please. [[13.20]]
u2022-06-20-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your concern for the affairs and well-being of Hungarian families, just like us. The aim of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation is to serve peace and security, to strengthen ties with family, nation and Western civilization. I don't think there's any discussion between us. The Hungarian future is written by Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your speech. I must say that Hungary is at the forefront in terms of maternity leave. Women with children can take one of the longest holidays in the European Union. The Hungarian government has also significantly expanded the range of benefits for fathers, as fathers can go to children, children and children, and they can also use child care benefits. Of course, as has always been the case, the government will continue to fulfil its obligations under EU law. Our goal is to make it easier to start a family, to have children and to raise children in Hungary. This is why, since 2010, we have increased more than three and a half times the amount of support for families. Just to give you a few examples: families raising children received their personal income tax paid in 2021 back up to the average income level. The maximum amount of ged has increased by more than two and a half times since 2010, with an increase of the minimum wage from 1 January 2022, reaching HUF 280 thousand. We introduced the family tax relief, which today helps some a million families. Hungary's Fundamental Law provides for the requirement to protect parents at work under a separate article, in accordance with which the Labour Code contains a number of provisions to facilitate the reconciliation of family life and work. The father is entitled to supplementary leave in relation to childbearing, to supplementary leave in the event of the birth of his child, so-called father's leave. According to the Labour Code Act, in the case of the birth of a child, the father shall be entitled to five working days' additional leave in the event of the birth of twin children, which shall be granted at the time of his request. Supplementary leave is for mother and newborns, for the sake of bonding, and can therefore be used by the father within a relatively short period of time within two months of childbirth. One hundred percent of the absence fee is due to the employee for the duration of his or her parental leave. We have been at the forefront of the EU. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has increased the support of families by three and a half times. This is today 6.4 percent of GDP, which is outstanding on the continent. Perhaps it would not be possible to list all the measures that have helped families in recent years. All we have to say is that births have increased by 5.4 percent compared to 2011. Family and personal decisions, as they have done so far, do not want to be interfered with by the government, but they want to help everyone connect to the blood flow of the economy, enter the labour market, have a more meaningful life. It can be concluded that the current Hungarian system is also based on a European comparison of legislation that is extremely favourable to the coordination of work and private life. The codification preparatory work on the transposition of the directive on work-life balance is ongoing. The Hungarian Government will do everything in its power to ensure that the guarantees laid down by the directive are fully secured for employees, thereby contributing to encouraging the coordination of work and private life. Honourable Congressman, We are facing war inflation, epidemics and global food difficulties, we are struggling with them, and from this point of view it is particularly gratifying for me to finally see the solution and the path to peace in strengthening Hungarian families. I wish they'd always do that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-12	Dávid Dócs, representative of the group of Mi Hungary, also asked for an opportunity to comment before the agenda. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Order is the foundation of a strong state, at least it should be. Last week, I spoke about chaos in law enforcement, and it's just a hair away from ending this with disaster. As I have already said, the police are not able to meet social needs today. In addition to being unattractive to the career model, there is no professional appreciation and the replacement is not adequate. Unfortunately, our police officers are few, weary and terribly underpaid. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Dear Minister of the Interior, We can't keep watering Betadine for an open fracture, this injury needs to be put in a track to start healing. We cannot expect our tired police officers, who work more people, to endure to the extreme what the Minister of Interior has asked them to do, while neither professional nor financial respect is provided by the state. During the first week of the decommissioning moratorium, more than 300 people announced their intention to decommission and, based on unofficial data, at least ten times as many think about it. That doesn't sound like much, but if we look at more than 10 percent of this police force as patrol officers, deputy officers, day-to-day detectives, and if everyone out of about 3,000 who thinks about decommissioning leaves the field, then we will face daily problems, and perhaps order will be just an old memory in this country. The union also sees this as just the beginning. No wonder, because crime has not been eradicated in the last 12 years, but, unfortunately, law enforcement and police. Over the years, internal conflicts have also been increased, as the salaries of high-ranking police officers have only barely been increased. A beginner patrolman's net salary is HUF 160,000, suggesting that everyday police work does not deserve any respect, and the leaders received their own wages, so that at least the statistics will be strong, if nothing else, within the Hungarian police. The remaining stock is either measuring speed or serving at the border instead of maintaining order. A pair of patrolmen enter complete districts with villages within the area capable of providing a pair of patrolmen on their own. The police, who have problems with numbers and supplies, seems not important enough for the Hungarian state. The Hungarian police officers are on the border instead of ensuring the maintenance of order, and they have no means of protecting it at the border. They are increasingly subjected to brutal attacks, which we do not know from the mainstream Fidesz media, which only comes to us as told by those who perform the service. The atrocities they received became commonplace, they were thrown with stones and sticks, and not only the vehicles, but also the staff members, who were in a state of distress between the two fences instead of the illegal offenders themselves. In addition to stones and sticks, the migrants use human slag, burning pieces of wood and the combustible material matching it, as well as spray juice and other things, but there is not a single case of armed fire or warning shots being fired on them. However, the Hungarian government is doing nothing to protect its own law enforcement, apart from sending them into service hiding behind their shields in helmets and bulletproof vests. Since the border guards have ceased to exist, there has not been enough police officers to defend the border or to carry out police duties, and taking away early retirement is no longer an attractive profession. According to the Hungarian Movement, order is the basis for everything, especially now when we are living in times when order cannot be a luxury when order cannot be a social deficiency item decided on a political basis. Therefore, we must take the problems of law enforcement as a priority, renegotiate early retirement, treat demotivity on a professional basis and make a significant wage increase in the sector. The package of proposals for the Government of Hungary's Movement includes, among other things, this, because, in our view, order and security are essential issues in times of distress. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-20-14	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. I give you the floor. [[13.30]]
u2022-06-20-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You begin by saying, honourable Member, that order is the soul of everything, order is the foundation of a strong state, I could say that you should defend the law and the law will protect you. Your party, since it would have been based on its own political rise or its own publicity that it would have been constantly, always in violation of the laws and regulations, cheating, direct provocation to the police, committed direct violations in order to get it on the news, and sooner or later to be included in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, Your party, when it was a party outside Parliament, but I do not believe that this election on 3 April will mean a watershed for you, has dealt with nothing but that various illegal acts have been directed to you. In 2020, in spite of police bans, you have illegally organized a protest involving not only banners, but also knives, pepper spray and stones. In 2021, you broke the CDC rules directly to ensure that you will be prosecuted for violation of the CDC rules, and then you will be included in the news that you are violating the laws, violating the law, while you are loudly saying that the order is the foundation of a strong state. But when many of you were there in the early days of Jobbik and organized the marches of the Hungarian Guard, these events were often organized in direct violation of the assembly or even other rules. They organized a lot of actions that they knew were against the law, and that's why they did it, because you wanted to focus on yourselves by breaking the law. After that, here in Parliament, you're talking about order being the basis of a strong state, that police officers should be respected. I agree with these two sentences, because without order there really is no freedom, without order there is no economic growth, and without respect for the police, without respect for the police, it is indeed not possible to imagine the safe operation of a state. But when you deliberately provoked the police, is that what you were thinking, honourable Member? We believe that in all cases the law must be respected, in all cases the police must be respected, not only here, in the case of a speech, but also in the day-to-day operation of their party. You have said that the emergency is over, and that is why the moratorium of termination has ceased, and you have acknowledged, honourable Member, that the number of people who have decided to leave the police force after the last six months, after a one-year period, is barely one percent. I think if you're talking to the manager of any big company to sign off on that big company, it could be a private company, but it could be any state institution, so that the fluctuations on an annual basis are like a percentage change in personnel over a half-year, I think a lot of people would sign that. It's really a tenth of a percent figure, barely reaching one percent, not even one percent. I think that all our appreciation and respect can belong to the Hungarian police. Politically, you expected there to be large-scale resignations, but fortunately, you wanted to do so, but the Hungarian people didn't want that, and the police, yes, insisted on their own vocation. They also did so because in recent years we have tried to appreciate their work in a moral and material sense. I mean, it was a ten-percent raise, six months' salary, and the cops got gun money. This means that this year, HUF 197 billion more financial recognition goes to the police than in 2021. This was deserved by the police, as instead of the previous 428,000 crimes in 2010, 142,000 crimes have been committed in the last year. So the number of crimes has decreased by two thirds. You also talked about increasing or decreasing police numbers. You know, this was 33 450 people in 2010, while on 1 June 2022, 36,624 people, this means that there is an increase of 3174 people. I don't know what kind of information you have, he said there's a lot of people in the police department who are thinking about leaving the force. We encourage them to stay and strive to raise a vision. I do not know where you have thought police, which can also measure who is thinking, honourable Member. But these three thousand people you've been talking about, all these people thinking they might leave the police, we've actually increased the police force by more than 3,000 in the last few years. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] In this way we can really say that order is the foundation of a strong state, and all Hungarian policemen deserve respect and recognition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-16	It is now up to Imre Komjáthi, a representative of the MSZP. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-20-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What I'm saying is, not on the workers, not on the people, on the workers who take this country on their backs who run this country. If the Fidesz government is planning mass firings in public administration, they shouldn't start saving money on public sector workers. There are savings, for example, on political appointees: State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretarys, Government and Ministerial Plenipotentiaries. However, if workers are to start cutting down, the MSZP's life-security package is essential to ensure that their families' livelihoods are safe. There have been conflicting statements about plans for thousands of government layoffs. We don't know if he's been caught or admitted by the government to be planning mass firings in public administration, or if he wants to keep thousands of employees in a state of uncertainty for a long time. They do this despite the fact that there are many jobs advertised, they cannot fill empty spaces because of the current low salaries. As a result of the shortage of staff, workers are regularly obliged to do tasks that are far from their usual work. Meanwhile, the government's management does not save itself, it does not save itself: Viktor Orbán's salary has been doubled, the wage ceiling has been abolished with the members of the government, so they can be expected to raise their salary. While the workers were being saved, 57 State Secretarys were appointed to the 11 ministries from May; Deputy Secretary of State was 104 in the previous term, but now they have increased to 108. It is only quietly noted that, even during the 2010 Orbán government, he was only 64 Deputy State Secretarys. But there are also a dozen prime minister commissioners, even a dozen ministers, who have more than a dozen government commissioners. Oh, my God. Seriously, we're starting to think that the bouquet-bound carrots and the crooked balloon peeler will have their own government commissioner. You're really going forward in this, not backwards. What goes forward is the euro exchange rate and rising prices. Meanwhile, they refuse to raise decently the salaries of social workers, health workers, railmen, postmen, and I could tell them by the end of the day. Meanwhile, the dignified strategic partner of the Dignified Government, Tungsram, is releasing the masses of people, and you will tolerate it silently. More and more end their decades of employment. Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, The MSZP finds it shameful that the Orbán government is pushing tens of thousands of Hungarian families into insecurity, while the Fidesz oligarchs are being protected, they are not subject to the extra-profit tax. We demand that Mészáros, Garancsi, Szíyj, Tiborcz, Orbán Győző and the other oligarchs of Fidesz take part in the crisis management. They've got money to pay, rich people to pay. According to the MSZP, Fidesz should not save money by firing those working in the public sector, and it is extremely outrageous that tens of thousands of Hungarian families, decent family fathers and family mothers, are kept insecurity. Just say the word. Be honest with me for once. Tell them, technically, what they save on the public sector is intended for their own salary increase and the construction of their own clientele. Don't save on the Hungarian workers, save on themselves! Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-20-18	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to make it clear to you that those living on wages and salaries in Hungary can count on the government's support. This was the government that strengthened the foundations of the work-based economy rather than the aid-based economy. We have not eliminated jobs in the last 12 years, but we have created jobs. If you look at national statistics, you will see that the unemployment rate has fallen from 12 percent to less than 4 percent, so that employment has never been as high in Hungary since the change of regime as it is now. These numbers are available to you, they're public, and they contradict what you're saying in themselves. [[13.40]] I would like to confirm what the Minister has already confirmed at the Government Info, there is no administrative area where any cuts are needed, and I would also like to draw his attention to the fact that this was the government that has strengthened the career model in recent years and has provided salaries to civil servants on several occasions. If this is about the number of politicians, then I would like to say to you, I would like to remind you that this was the government, the number of Parliament has fallen significantly during the current governance. And if you would take further steps, I would like to remind you of the upcoming bill of government parties, which will allow you to put an end to the fact that your support for the election has been reduced, and yet you want to seize more support, not by little, by billions of HUF, if I recall correctly, by 3 billion forints. So if you want to save money on the government, but mostly on the politicians, you should start by looking around the house of your own fractions. As for wages in general, since 2010, real wages have increased by more than 70 percent in Hungary, under your governance, so that if you recall, it is a significant difference of between 15% and a few percent. This year's gross average wage despite all the difficulties! It's 17.5 percent higher than last year, and we've faced a plague, and we've got a war conflict that we're not the cause of, and we've already increased wages in Hungary, they've exceeded 500 thousand forints, they're around 511,000 forints. The minimum wage increased to HUF 200,000 in January, which means that it is close to three times the 2010 level. You could have raised the minimum wage, eased the burden of the most vulnerable, given them a helping hand, but did not. Or I can talk about current wage increases: from January onwards, social workers, daycare workers, workers in the cultural sector increased by 20 percent, nurses' wages by 21 percent, armed and law enforcement workers and sworn staff received six months' arms money, and the most important medical wage increase programme in recent decades is under way. So when you claim that there is no wage increase programme in Hungary, it is simply not true. If you say that we are faced with difficulties in these weeks, then it is true that this is not caused by the government, but, above all, by the war situation, by the inflation of war, there is a clear correlation. The fact of the outbreak of war and the suspended sanctions, the unthinking sanctions policy can bring the EU economy to its knees, and we are not dealing with a Hungarian peculiarity, but with a phenomenon that affects the entire continent. And if you ask me when this is gonna end, it's gonna end when the war is over when there's peace. Therefore, if not for many things, but perhaps for one thing we can agree that the most appropriate answer to economic difficulties in these weeks and months is to put peace on our flags. [[Dr. János Latorcai: That's right!]] I'm sorry you didn't say anything about it when you talked about matters of livelihood, but the government has made a number of important decisions beyond those mentioned. We extended the food price and petrol stop until October and extended the credit moratorium and the interest stop until the end of the year. We know why you didn't tell us about this because you don't want these measures. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi and Imre Komjáthi intervene.]] They say there's a few quotes coming up, so for the price stops, you say it's bullshit, stupidity, dead kisses, pretend actions, orbital scams, scams. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Who said that?!]] Useless action, and the list of condemnors is not yet complete. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] So, I ask you, when it comes to livelihoods, to be honest with the Hungarians and to say to their faces that they do not want price limits, to say to their eyes that, in times of war inflation, they would put all costs on their heads. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is clear from these few examples that the left was, and is, a austerity maniac before 2010. Thank you for listening. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true! Not anymore. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-20	I now give the floor to Momentum's representative, Miklós Dawn. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Two or three weeks ago, the pro-government exchange took place, and it became public that Balázs Fürjes was sent to Parliament by the Prime Minister's Office, it made me a little sad that he was not here today, he didn't come to work, but the water world started, and sometimes it's more important. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] However, the Secretary of State has one, let us put it this way, that he has an unsettled debt towards the Hills and the Bel-Buda voters, because the debate promised earlier in the election campaign has unfortunately been cancelled, and although he has not come to Parliament today, we hope that we will have the opportunity to replace this debate here afterwards. If it's up to me, our debates, our constituency, our city, and ultimately our country will be about their development, and they won't go into empty personalism, although if it's up to the Secretary of State, he's put down his card in the last few weeks, and humanity doesn't seem to be as important as it was at the time of the campaign. But let's give it a try, so I am going to go to the government today specifically on matters in which the Secretary of State stood earlier, and I hope that you may be able to provide concrete answers to my specific questions, whoever will give the answer when the Secretary of State is not here. So, Honourable Parliament, today I would like to talk about matters in which we are supposed to agree, which were involved in both the electoral programme and the commitments of the opposition and the pro-government candidate, so on things that 90 percent of the voters in the mountains and in Bel-Buda have agreed on, which were supported by 90 percent of the voters in the April elections. This week the debate on next year's budget begins in Parliament. This is an important debate, since ultimately a budget is one of the best evidence of what is really important to the government and what is not. And when I look at this budget, I'm obviously primarily looking at what's coming out of it for the mountain and the Bel-Budans, and I'm looking for how Buda is developing, how the Mountains are rejuvenating, and I have to say, I have a serious sense of absence. Dear Parliament, If we ask the Hungarian people what is the biggest problem in the country, what they personally feel is the biggest problem, most people mention the state of the health system. For as much as our doctors and health professionals are crucified, whose work can only be thanked and grateful, our health system is simply in a catastrophic state, although healthcare in Hungary is clearly not a negligible issue. And that is why it was a huge achievement when the new government leadership of the capital fought out an additional HUF 10 billion a year in 2019, with the aim of renovating and developing Budapest offices, shorting CT and MR waiting lists. But I ask you, what kind of leadership is it that the municipalities have to convince them to take at least a little more care of people's health? Of course, you made promises in the field of health, in 2018, you promised to renew the János Hospital until the end of the cycle, 2022, and you will have a prominent hospital for the capital, yet this is the most important health care facility in Buda, 450,000 patients a year, a total of one million cases here. And compared to that, the hospital's renovation has been going on for years, and the public procurement for the renovation has been issued only two years after the government's promise. Prior to this year's elections, Parliamentary Secretary Fürjes also made a commitment to quote that the full renewal of the János Hospital should take place. The keyword here is the complete renewal of the, as a facade remodeling is not much for the person being treated inside. Compared to this, when I look at the planned budget, I see no sign of where the money would be for the renovation of John's Hospital, and so my question is how much longer the renovation will be. Do you want to wait until it collapses? Let the government point out where the money is for next year's budget. And you won't forget that promise, will you? ! There is another question that I would like to suggest to you, because we see other shortcomings in the budget, and I would like to point out again from the commitments made in Buda, since we are talking about the constituency. My opponent, Deputy Minister, has agreed to complete the renovation of the 56 tram line and the purchase of low-floor, accessible trams on line 59. Now I would like to ask you where these commitments are in the budget. Where does the state support the capital in these matters? Because we don't see any of these commitments. And it is a key issue that the Budapest people can ride with low-floor trams on as many lines as possible to make public transport an attractive alternative for many, and therefore, among other things, the capital itself has finally undertaken to make the 56 tram suitable for this at its own expense, even though they manage far less than the Hungarian state. And if it were up to you, that would probably be even less. Dear Parliament, These are just a few questions, some of which were included in the programmes and commitments of the candidates in the mountains and in Bel-Buda, who obtained the two most votes. So I ask the government what will happen to the renovation of John's Hospital [[The president's ringing the bell.]] what will happen to support Buda transport; you will not turn the Buda commitments into a budish puffery, will you? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-20-22	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond to the comments before the agenda.
u2022-06-20-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Thank you very much for saying at the beginning that it was free of personalities, so it only personalized for a minute and a half, saying the name of Balázs Fürjes about a dozen times. How many times in ten seconds would you have told me the name of Balázs Fürjes, honourable Member? [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] [[13.50]] It must be painful for you that many of the things that you've misrepresented in the campaign, which you didn't stand out from the Momentum faction in the campaign, of course, you were confronted by Balázs Fürjes. He didn't fade, but he even stepped into these battles, and in many cases he even denied you, and in these differences, a good part of the people gave him the truth, and that's why you're trying to do something here. Dear Member, on your soul, we will see how much you will succeed. At the same time, we see that when you, Momentum, are included in a decision-making body, let us say, in the Metropolitan Assembly, the situation of public transport in Budapest is not so important as to go to the general assembly, but to fight with DK in municipal places. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] They don't go in, they don't vote for the deputy mayor, they don't go in on any agendas, it's not important to have a budget. It may have happened once since 1990, since there has been democracy in Hungary, because there is no Metropolitan Assembly because it is convened by the mayor, and you do not go to the assembly meeting to make it directly impossible for the general assembly to make any decisions on purpose, but you did it one of the first time they got in. There are obviously two fairs, so I do not want to relieve the DKs of their responsibilities, but you are here in Budapest, standing up in Parliament and demanding some things, some of which are entirely justified, and are also in line with the objectives of the government, where you have the opportunity to do so and your party, where they create paralysis on purpose, directly hinder the work. Perhaps if the Metropolitan Assembly had met there, the budget might have made more money for public transport and health. You know, honourable Member, you have, in relation to health care, let us say, very gently, your proposals of indiscretion. Gergely Christmas promised that she would be in every district, with a total of 23 CTs in Budapest at the moment when there were 24 CTs in Budapest, so you make such and similar health commitments with great courage. But let us not forget that when the funds arrived from the central budget of Budapest, the government committed 10 billion forints a year to Budapest, and did so, and transferred it, the first reply was not that it was very good, but that we would buy such machines to serve the health of the people of Budapest, but one of the first answers was that we could not use 80 million of them to write a study? This is what you wanted to do for the first time with the medical resources that arrived in Budapest, because it is not enough for the 53-54 consultants who sit around Gergely Christmas, but also for the old Miklós Hagyó traditions when we use the first nearly 100 million from health sources for studies to actually think about what we would do and what they would like to do. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Yes, you have to think about it, that's how they do it.]] For some reason, you didn't mention the Kútvölgyi block, Your Honour. Why not? Speaking of health care, if you were talking about Bel-Buda, where the renovation started, where there seems to have been more progress than in recent decades, at any time in the past years, and thanks to the programme of "Healthy Budapest," why did you not mention this? Of course, we want to continue to develop St. John's Hospital as the Northern Buda Supply Center. It is very important for everyone to have a higher level of care there, but I think that if we were to show a fair overall picture, then we could show which part of it, where there has already been spectacular development, in recent decades, has not been seen, and which one is really ahead of us. It's just, you know, the left was arguing, he wasn't arguing, he was bidding on each other in the campaign, you and your allies were saying that 45 percent of hospitals have to be shut down or more, that the visit fee and hospital daily allowance have to be introduced in one or two days, so that they can only be paid in cash or with a mobile phone or a credit card. This was your health program. It is not how the renovations are now taking place, but how much people have to pay and what can be privatised, honourable Member. By the way, I understand that you are the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the BKK not necessarily because you had this kind of higher education degree, but you have held this title earlier. When you were there, how much did you help to achieve the important public transport elements in Budapest, whether from European Union sources? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because, as Mayor Zoltán Pokorni, he took action on this case, and Gergely Christmas just held back, leaned back, and said that he couldn't do anything about it. No wonder you're going to Balázs Fürjes, because it looks like you're turning to Gergely Christmas in vain. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-20-24	György László Lukács, representative of Jobbik also asked for the floor before the agenda. I'll give the floor to Congressman. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have seen many times in recent times what you are saying, and in reality how it is compared to this, it is often in stark contrast. [[Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik!]] The things you're telling me don't cover reality, simply translated. Let's see what's different now in reality than the way you paint it, and how you say it. Let's start right away, and we have to bring up three topics here, one is obviously the pricestop, the other is the extra protégé, and the third is inflation. Let's start with the price stop. You have identified several products in the price stop, which are regular consumer goods, and of which very much is lost in Hungary, and the price has been fixed and now you have extended it until 1 October, such as crystal sugar or 2.8 percent milk, but you could say the chicken breast, which is one of these. We all know the range of products. However, we do not know them very well, and now we are less and less familiar with them, because the reality has become that in many stores this product, these product products are unattainable. My personal experience tells me that I've been to several shops in the last week where I simply wanted to buy a kilo of crystal sugar, but it wasn't. Either it wasn't stocked or it wasn't planned to be stocked, which points out that when a person takes such action, it is necessary to adapt the regulation to reality, and the regulation must be dealt with in such a way that it cannot be abused. I would remind you that a meat business has also said that they are trying to keep the profits of products close to it, i.e. other meat products, increased over inflation. In fact, it seems to be a trick, and the price stop today has led to the fact that it is not possible to buy certain products for days, and even the price of other similar products has risen above inflation. But here's the extra-profit tax, this is the latest economic measure for you, in which you try to involve extra resources in the Rehabilitation and Defence Funds, typically through the taxation of large companies, as you say, so that families don't pay the price of war. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this has also been proven to be a direct contrast between reality and what you have imagined. The worst airline in Europe has also successfully announced that the cost will be passed on, and another airline has followed this, but the banks have said that this is what Telekom service providers and communication companies have said. It is also clear here, my fellow Members, that at the end of the day the smallest will pay the price of these extra-profit donors with the increased, passed-on services. In fact, you will involve the smallest in this area of public burdens, because by doubling the public burden on simplified occupations, you will be lost from the smallest businesses, from the self-employed, from the micro-enterprises, from individual entrepreneurs and from social enterprises, and will be lost double. In fact, you are the source of the amendment of the itemary tax of the highly popular and popular taxpayers, the amendment of the kata, which is once again the smallest businesses, and thus the families can drink the juice. The plan was not for people to pay the price of war. We are now at the expense of the people, the cost of the war, the cost of the economic crisis that you have mistreated, and the cost of raising the salary of Orbán and his State Secretarys. And to raise one more question, here is the question of inflation and its scope. As a result of the 27 percent VAT on the European record, you are preparing for a record income this year as well, as inflation means not only that Hungarians have to pay more in the store, food is more expensive, the articles they buy are more expensive, but, by increasing inflation, you will receive an extra tax revenue of 500-600 billion forints with a record rate of 27 per cent. You and the poorest, because VAT is a tax on the poor, and you will make the poorest people pay the price of inflation in the country. You can clearly see that Orbán's cash register is the best thing to do, and everyone else is the worst. Right-wing Jobbik has a proposal for zero percent VAT on basic foods. But if we say that there should be zero percent VAT on basic foods, there should be strict checks to ensure that this VAT rule is respected by traders, that those in the supply chain are respected, and that it is also clear that in the long term, the introduction of a social card can make people easier to deal with. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation is not cheerful. We can also look at the current situation in a way that, while you have tried to deal with crisis-resistant measures with price-stopping, extra-profit tax, but most importantly, by letting inflation go free, we have no money left if we don't have money in the past. [[14.00]] In view of all this, I ask my honourable fellow Members or Secretary of State, Minister: how long does the government stand by and watch high inflation? Why do they want the European record to pay the price of the crisis with 27 percent VAT? When will basic food VAT finally be reduced to zero percent? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-06-20-26	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2022-06-20-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You criticize the government's anti-inflationary actions, such as the price stop. I'm just telling you that today Croatia has introduced the fuel stop for the Hungarian example, or Slovenia is currently leading out the price stop, but it's because a left-wing government has recently been elected there. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: That's right!]] I believe that the introduction of a price stop does have a significant positive impact on prices, the rate of inflation has been reduced by about 5-6 percent, thus the lowest inflation rate in Central Europe in Hungary. In other countries, for example, Poland, but we could list countries with significantly higher inflation. It is very difficult to fight inflation, against price increases, because it does not apply to the government's will and will, but is caused by other external effects. Now, for example, war has the most significant impact on price increases and inflation, in Hungarian: there is war inflation. There is war inflation because it is limited to the movement of certain products, such as cereals or in the case of other products, there is no sufficient quantity in relation to demand, and this automatically means a price increase. The whole of Europe is also struggling with inflation, as the size and extent of inflation in Germany are at peaks, but in America, too, there is now a huge struggle with inflation that is close to 10%. So each country tries to fight inflation with its own instruments. Yes, Hungary is introducing a price stop. It introduces a pricestop for food so that the public can buy certain products cheaply. That, of course, can be criticized. When your ally, the left, was in power, your proposal was implemented. You say that with the introduction of a zero-percent VAT, strict control will have to be introduced. This has already been done by the Hungarian Socialist Party, when it was in power, without success; so unsuccessfully that the VAT reduction has been modified. As far as VAT is concerned, your attitude from a political point of view is not appropriate to change the VAT rates. When the government puts the price of basic food down to 5 percent before Parliament, you vote 'no' and you do not support the VAT reduction. When the government is in a major fight against inflation and price increases, one of the tools for this is pricestops and VAT cuts, you are, in contrast, proposing a zero-percent rate rather than a discount rate. This is discredited by Jobbik, that when it comes to deciding on real issues in the Parliament, he does not support it, and then, in the present situation, he proposes this to the Parliament. As far as the extra-profit tax is concerned: if you observe the views of the population on this and what they think, then a significant part of the population does support the introduction of this. It supports the introduction of an extra-profit tax because it will pay additional taxes in sectors with additional income and additional profits. The government does not choose to increase tax revenue by placing a burden on the population, but rather on those who, in this economic situation, obtain additional profits, additional profits and additional revenues. The government's economic policy is on the right track. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-28	Dear House, Mr Gergely Arató DK also applied for a speech before the agenda. Before I give him the floor, allow me to give him the friendly warning that, given the earlier speakers of his party, who have crossed the framework of the house rules, I would like to predict that, if Mr President uses wordings that seriously violate the authority of this House, even through the government, I will be forced to impose sanctions to express myself gently. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-29	Nevertheless, I would like to exercise the rights of freedom of expression enshrined in the House, so thank you for the warning, but I do not take into account it. Dear House, The situation is currently the following in Hungary. The euro is 400 forints. Not every year, ten percent a month, many kinds of food are expensive. There's inflation. They can't make a living on their salary for teachers, cops, social workers, health workers. They work three shifts for a minimum wage. Retirements can buy less for their salary every month, and in good times, they will receive some minimal compensation from you. In this situation, when there is undoubtedly a difficult economic situation, whose interests are protected by the government? Who does the Hungarian government stand for? I will tell you: In this situation, the only thing that matters to the Government of Viktor Orbán is the interest of global international large companies that are polluting the environment. That's why they're standing up. Because it is an old effort in the world to finally tax fairly those large companies, the large international groups that are able to avoid tax taxes across tax havens in every country that produces in Hungary, but they are declared abroad in order to pay as little tax as possible. These large multi-enterprises are now wanted to be taxed by the whole world, including the European Union, which is the global minimum tax. This was the agreement of all the countries of the world, all the major countries, and the 26 Member States of the European Union agreed. Which country essentially vetoed the EU decision on this, and which government? The Government of Viktor Orbán. The Government of Viktor Orbán said that no, we do not want to tax these large international companies, which are polluting, we do not want them to pay a fair tax as much as the smaller and medium-sized enterprises operating in one country. What are your arguments? They say, well, no tax increases, there's a crisis. And it's right, because you really shouldn't do a tax increase that affects people in this difficult situation. But that's what you guys do. No tax increases? An extra tax has just been levied that companies will collect on people, because there should be no misunderstanding, we have said in advance, and now you can see that airlines, banks, business chains will be collecting on people the money that you otherwise, without any particular economic reason, will be throwing at them ideally, arbitraryly. People will pay increased excise duties on fuel, fuel and electricity. The people will pay that, the postal charges, and I can continue forever. You tax people and refuse to tax large companies. It is also said to be competitive, because competitiveness is so and so. I'd like to ask you, why are you worried about these giant corporations? Do you know how many companies we're talking about? Companies with turnover above EUR 700 million. It can be calculated, thanks to you, at today's euro exchange rate, it means 400 billion forints. [[14.10]] This is not the size of a Hungarian company, it is not a Hungarian small company, but it is not a medium company. It's a manufacturing company, these big global multinationals! Now, they are concerned about their competitiveness, they want to protect their competitiveness, while at the same time they are threatening the competitiveness of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, who, by the way, basically give jobs in Hungary today, do not pay attention to these companies, they are not important, they are threatened by the elimination of the cat, or at least by their availability under much worse conditions, they threaten to raise gas prices, otherwise they threaten to take a tax policy that always gives to the big ones and always takes it away from the small ones. But in other ways, this model of competitiveness is incapable and insane. In your mind, the competitiveness of the economy must be achieved by attracting companies here with cheap labour and low taxes. You didn't make this up, without a doubt, since 90, most governments have thought this way, both on the right and on the left, but today we are past that, in the world, the countries have understood that this is not the secret of competitiveness, but good education, good health. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Be on the side of the Hungarian people once, exceptionally, and not of the large corporations! [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-30	Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That's the second question they're going to raise. The statement that the government preferred multi-company companies was a smile because it was the government that involved them in bearing burdens after they had to clean up the ruins that you left behind, and that this was the government that imposed taxes on extra-profit, which involved them in sharing the burden. I see that your party has joined this international campaign on the global minimum tax. This really means two things, and it has already been said here: one is that they want to issue powers from the hands of the national government and the other is that they continue to be obsessed with tax increases. This proposal is not about taxing the extra profit accumulated in recent months, but about doubling the tax burden of Hungarian companies and companies operating here in the long term. Double it! I'm telling you to double it because it's a 7.5% tax rate right now. So we are going to ask you once again: have you considered how investment in Hungary would be affected if corporate tax levels doubled, and how would this affect job creation? Have you considered the consequences of not introducing this tax in other regions of the world? [[Gergely Harvesto: Global! It's all over the world!]] Wouldn't I be raising this tax while the European Union would raise it with Hungary in it? Have you considered that this proposal may be favourable to certain higher tax countries, but would it create a significant competitive disadvantage for Hungary? So we're going back to where we always go: we're living with the suspicion that they're adapting their policies to foreign expectations again. In times of war, it is not a tax increase, but an investment incentive and a further tax reduction that is needed. On the other hand, we are in a lucky position to be quite clear about who has done what in dealing with the economic crisis, your government and our government. Your relatively simple response to crisis management was to take a big budget mower and cut everywhere. [[Gergely Harvesto: You just announced it! We'll get back to you in a month.]] : the public sector's wages have been frozen, a month's wages have been cut from hundreds of thousands, the 13th month's pension has been taken away, the duration of children and children has been narrowed down, gas and district heating compensation has been phased out. They promised that it wouldn't hurt, but it hurt millions of Hungarians very much, and you were sitting in the government at the time. Then unemployment was about 12 percent. The end of the story was that eventually the EU and the IMF had to look for support. On the other hand, while we are facing a double crisis, a double problem, after an epidemic, the current government provides subsidies instead of austerity, instead of tax increases, we keep the tax on families low, instead of redundancies, employment is at a record level, instead of a 7 per cent shrinkage, the economy did not decrease by 7 per cent last year, but increased, and gas and electricity prices are not allowed to be released, but rather limited. Now, you don't wear it well when we draw attention to your past decisions. Perhaps Congressman Gréczy, sometimes Mr Harangozó, has mentioned how many years we have been in government, but the fact is that we have to bring this up because the policy I am talking about is nothing, but nothing has changed, so they do not support the protection of families now. [[Gergely Harvesto is talking to the people around him.]] We put in four types of price stops, and you didn't support them: for example, they said it was unsustainable; for the gas stop, they said it was stupid, arguing that prices couldn't be stopped at the border; if we decided on a food stop, you were mocking the chicken's tail. There is time for you, honourable Member, if you have between two conversations, a fellow Member who thinks this is a lie. Anyone who thinks this is bullshit, I would like to suggest that you go to a gas station, see how much you would pay a Hungarian car driver if there were no gas stop and compare it with the amount you have to pay now, it is clearly in the invoice. [[Gergely Harvesto: Are you arguing with your imaginary friend?]] And to complete the picture, they support sanctions, such as gas embargoes, the closure of gas taps, which would create extra enormous burdens for Hungarian families. And that is not enough: Brussels plans are also supported, in which people are asked to heat less, bathe less, drive less and slower, in cities with 30 kilometers per hour, and even restrict public lighting. [[Gergely Arató: You can't listen to this anymore!]] So they would be burdened with a lot of things that would mean that they would have to pay the price of the war, which, by the way, Hungarians are not responsible for. It is clear from these few examples that when there is a crisis, both the European and the Hungarian left always puts the burden on families. That's what happened in 2008-09, and that's how they'd do it now. On 3 April, Hungarians gave a clear opinion on this policy [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We take the message of choice as our guide. We will not allow the past to return to failure, either in the economy or in anyone else. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-32	I now give the floor to KDNP's representative, István Hollik. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Nearly four months ago, the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out. Although many have done so that the parties do not start war, unfortunately the peace efforts have failed, and as the war has gone on, we are facing an increasingly difficult economic crisis in Europe. Unfortunately, the war in our neighbourhood has brought about an era of shortages in Europe and in the world. There is a shortage of energy sources, a shortage of grain, a shortage of construction and industrial raw materials, and we know that where there is a shortage, there will also be liberating prices and inflation. What makes the situation worse: there are further deficits in Brussels; there is a shortage of predictability, stability, but most of all, of sound judgment, which continues to fuel war inflation. This is supported by the failed Brussels sanctions policy and by the particularly dangerous ideas fair of the European Left. For example, European Commission Executive Vice-President Frans Timmermans proposes not only shutting down the heating at home, but he thinks it would be better if we showered for a shorter period of time or if the European people were to air their clothes instead of washing. And the co-leader of the German Socialist Party proposed that the Sunday driving ban be imposed in Germany. What's worse is that the left of the capital also sat on the train to Brussels. For example, the deputy mayors see a break in war inflation in the fact that the Hungarians, I quote, leave the car behind and move to public transport or change their cooling and heating habits. These life advice or impossible ideas, who likes it, would eventually lead to war inflation remaining or growing longer, and in the end, we Hungarians should pay the price of the war. So left-wing ideas are not a solution, but a further deepening of the problem and a further increase in war inflation. However, we have to say no to this, and we see that, in contrast to the crazy ideas of the left, the 2023 budget is able to protect Hungarian people in difficult times of war today. And what's the guarantee? Well, first of all, budget 2023 provides for the establishment of the Rehabilitation and Defence Fund. The two funds will be HUF 1450 billion in 2023, which comes from the contribution of multinationals and banks that are extra profit in the war situation. These funds also guarantee the maintenance of the reduction of the rent and the preservation of the physical safety of the Hungarian people. It is equally important that the Hungarian economy remains on the growth path, which is why it is necessary to partially say no to the minimum global tax, so that we can count on stable development in 2023, and that Hungarian people can keep their jobs. [[14.20]] Thirdly, the protection of families and pensioners remains a priority for Fidesz-KDNP. Thus, the 13th month pension remains, their value is guaranteed by the increase in pensions, and despite the difficult situation, family allowances and the under 25 year olds will remain. The protection of the Hungarian people is therefore not the idea of the left, but of a Hungary with a firm budget on a stable growth path, which is able to sustain the reduction of overhead and protect people. KDNP continues to maintain our common position with the government that Hungary must stay out of the war and that it cannot be allowed to have the Hungarian people pay the price of the war. I would therefore ask my fellow left-wing Members before the general debate, especially in the light of the results of the elections on 3 April, to put aside party political considerations at this time of war, and not to say no to the budget because it was submitted by the Fidesz-KDNP government. As the Hungarian people said 'yes' to stability and security on 3 April, so finally say 'yes' to next year's budget for these purposes. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-34	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, shall have the floor.
u2022-06-20-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, in times of war, in times of high inflation, in times of energy crisis, in times of other economic difficulties, what kind of budget can be made for a country. It is quite certain that the government will prepare a good budget if it takes into account these external factors that affect the population of the country. War, linked to inflation, causes war inflation. The energy crisis started even before the Russian-Ukrainian war, which, as you have said, the European Union is still unable to handle, because it does not take into account the interests of the citizens of EU countries, but some other interests that have a negative impact on the European Union. In such a situation, only a budget aimed at preserving results and values achieved can be drawn up. One of these results is the government, the country, which has been able to achieve, implement and maintain in Hungary over the past ten years. But in times of war, it is also very important to protect the country's security from a military point of view. That is why, as you said, budget 2023 is a budget for public security and defence. All these results, the objectives can be achieved by budget 2023, while the budget deficit is substantially reduced, and, as you said, there will be no austerity. The budget is not a step backwards from the point of view of families, and the tax increase applies to sectors and sectors where it can already achieve additional results, additional profits and additional profits. The 2023 budget therefore prioritises families, childbearing and child rearing, and we do not withdraw from a single programme to support families. This is equally true of tax incentives, the personal income tax exemption for women with four children, the 13th month pension and the personal income tax exemption for women under 25 years of age. It's all going to last and it's going to last. Despite the difficulties caused by the war, employment will continue to grow in 2023 and net average earnings will increase by 10.2 percent. Overall, taking into account inflation and the increase in average earnings, consumption could increase by 4.3 percent in 2023. The priorities of the budget submitted for 2023 are very clear: the fight against the prolonged war and the significant increase caused by sanctions in Brussels across Europe. [[Sic!]] The government's main goal is to stay out of the war, protect people, so that people don't pay the price of the war. The most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security and to ensure the country's energy supply, as I have already said, and you have stressed, to protect the reduction of the overhead. Therefore, we will establish two funds, the Rehabilitation and Defence Fund. Fund revenues will exceed HUF 1500 billion. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families are currently paying the most favourable rent in the European Union. This budget, which spends HUF 670 billion on the Rezségvédelmi Fund, continues to protect Hungarian families, the Hungarian economy and Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-36	Dear House, In the line of comments before the agenda, I give the floor to Fidesz MEP Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-20-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is war inflation, which will only cease when there is peace, so it is not with the support of war, but with peacemaking that we can best combat inflation. The economic impact of the war is not only on Europe, but also on the world as a whole, with rising energy prices and rising prices for each product, partly as a result of sanctions in Brussels. The most important goal of the government in this situation is that Hungary should stay out of the war, and not the Hungarian people should pay the price of the war. The most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply, and to protect the cost reduction. The government has achieved that inflation is 5-6 percent lower in Hungary today than in Europe by protecting the cost reduction and the price stops. Let us look at some countries, fellow Members. In Estonia, inflation is above 20 per cent, Lithuania is also struggling with 18,5 per cent inflation, but even the Czech Republic is facing inflation above 15 per cent. We can say that Hungary has the lowest rate of inflation in Central and Eastern Europe. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the government introduced the gas stop at the very beginning and then the food stop. So I think it is our duty to support the government to extend the petrol stop until 1 October, the credit moratorium and the interest stop until 31 December. We are committed to continuing to protect Hungarian people, thereby protecting the Hungarian economy and our achievements so far. The government's decisions to protect families have been attacked by the left all along. We ask you to change your position and finally stand by the Hungarian people and to protect what we have achieved so far. Our position remains that the unity of the European Union is important, but we only support decisions and sanctions that do not hurt Hungary and Europe more than the one they want to sanction. Unfortunately, the sanctions in Brussels contribute to such a record level of inflation and the planned introduction of the gas embargo would bankrupt virtually all of Europe. We can already see the supply problems and the increase in Russian gas supplies over the last few days. The other problem we have to face is the question of introducing a minimum global tax. Hungary would clearly be adversely affected by this decision, since today the average tax burden on companies in Hungary is 7.5 percent. This is a very low level, but we do not think that this would otherwise be a unique and special level at global level, and in the United States of America, it is also 7.5 percent of the overall tax burden on companies today, since there too the government is applying specific advantages that are of paramount importance for maintaining the competitiveness of the US economy. [[14.30]] So I think that we can have no other interest than the competitiveness advantage that has led us to create a million new jobs in Hungary over the last ten years, and in the last five years, together with the Czech Republic, we will be able to realise the largest inflows of working capital, and we will retain this, and we will need a competitive tax system to do so. We cannot make it possible for an initiative launched by the OECD Member States against giant technology companies that clearly circumvent all obligations of taxation to drink black soup by us, by Hungarians or by the European economy. What happened was that on the road, the initiative to tax giant technology companies, which concerned primarily the taxation of these companies and the elimination of their tax avoidance, was the so-called first pillar of the system that was developed at the initiative of the OECD, the second pillar of which would have been the idea that the European Commission had set up to develop a minimum global tax level of 15% for all companies. We are here today, ladies and gentlemen, that, under the influence of the US lobby, technology giants are getting out of taxation, as the OECD has already acknowledged that it will not be able to launch the new single tax system on 1 January 2023. So it has been pushed away by a year and a year, while the European Commission is trying to trick Hungary, including the EU Member States, into deciding on a uniform minimum tax. In this situation, this decision is not in the interests of Hungary, and we therefore believe that its support is irresponsible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-38	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2022-06-20-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Yes, it is very important to understand what is happening during the introduction of the global minimum tax, how the OECD Declaration of October 2021, supported by Hungary, can no longer be supported. What happened during that time? What happened, as Congressman Erik Bánki pointed out, is that the particular pillar that would be aimed at the fair taxation of large companies with outstanding profits, and that it would also be aimed at taxing certain large companies in the country where consumption is actually taking place, and that is indeed the fact that the individual pillar has been removed from the proposal in Hungarian and is essentially forgotten. But Facebook, the Google companies, would have been taxed by pillar one. Instead, what happened? The so-called pillar two has emerged. The point of Pillar 2 is that all companies are taxed depending on their turnover. Every company. It doesn't matter what kind of activity you do here, no matter where you do it. Each company will be taxed by 15 percent, so companies operating in Hungary, with a corporate tax rate below this, would have a significant tax burden. It would also mean that the adoption of this would destroy our achievements in competitiveness, and would be a disadvantage, not an advantage. The adoption of this would be a competitive disadvantage for Hungary. But otherwise it would mean that for the European Union as a whole. In fact, it is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible, it is as if the European Union were to shoot itself in the leg, and after shooting itself in the leg with the introduction of this system, the running competition would start with America and China, and we, as a member of the European Union, would compete with a significant competitive disadvantage due to our shooting ourselves in the leg. But why is it that America expects the global minimum tax to be introduced by the European Union, and after the European Union has introduced it, then perhaps America will accept it? America accepts that the Senate hasn't been able to accept a tax treaty amendment in ten years. This Senate will have to adopt a global minimum tax after the European Union has voted in favour of it in a uniform manner, and the European Union will already have to pay its taxes. This means that US companies will not think about setting up a company in Europe and continuing their activities in Europe. That's what this is all about. This is particularly detrimental not only to the European Union, as I said, but also to Hungary. We Hungarians are involved in the introduction of this second pillar, the introduction of the minimum tax, we are involved in the professional work, but on the one hand we consider this to be too early, undeveloped, not to mention that in our fight against the war, which has serious economic consequences, this is not the most important thing that we burden the countries of Europe, the farmers and economic organizations operating in Europe with another uniform minimum tax. Therefore Hungary, the Hungarian Finance Minister, did not support the introduction of the global minimum tax at the Ecofin meeting, but of course our country will continue to participate in the development of its details. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-40	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-06-20-41	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; János Bencze, Jobbik. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Sándor Berki, Dialogue; László Toroczkai, Mi Hazank; Dezső, MSZP; Dávid Bedő, Momentum; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Mónika Dunai, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Varju, DK. On Wednesday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: László Varju, DK. On Thursday, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK. On Friday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Noémi Végh, Jobbik; László Varju, DK.
u2022-06-20-42	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The proposal for a derogation from the House Rule presented in the President's power initiates the National Assembly to act as H/315 on the formation of the Hungarian National Group of Interparlamental Union. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the resolution proposal, it departs from the rules of the House of Decisions so that the proposal for a resolution is passed on to Parliament without a separate decision; § 1 does not have to apply; it should not be possible to submit a proposal amending the proposal for a decision and a Commission report; and the proposal for a decision should be adopted without discussion, on 21 June 2022. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/315/1. You can get to know him on the website. [[14.40]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that a derogation from the house rules requires a vote of four fifths of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House contributed by 148 votes in favour, 12 sexes [footnoteRef:1], on the other hand, without abstention, to a derogation from the house rules. [ 1: Gergely Harvester] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] [[DK]] , Barkóczi Balázs ( DK), Gréczy Zsolt ( DK), Gy. Erzsébet Németh ( DK), Andrea Hegedüs ( DK), Olga Kálmán ( DK), Dr. Zoltán Komáromi ( DK), László Kordás ( DK), Dr. Lajos Oláh ( DK), László Sebian-Petrovszki ( DK), Zoltán Varga ( DK), László Varju ( DK) wrongly voted. ] Dear House, We are now deciding on an exceptional proposal. The author initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the non-acceptance of the EU directive on the introduction of a global minimum tax, H/279. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within the third hour following the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote should take place at the meeting on 21 June 2022. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. So now I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/279. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the motion was accepted by the House by 119 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 11 abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:42 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that H/279 rejecting the adoption of the EU directive on the introduction of a global minimum tax. The joint debate on the motion for a resolution on Tuesday, 21 June 2022 shall take place as the first item on the agenda following the speeches before the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Group of the Fidesz Group proposed that the parliamentary meeting on 21 June 2022 should take place from 1 p.m. to 30 p.m. instead of 10 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that should also raise their hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. We are now deciding on a time-frame negotiation. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the adoption of the T/152 proposal on Hungary's central budget for 2023. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present this motion.
u2022-06-20-43	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed 30-hour timeframe is as follows: 615 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 285 minutes for the KDNP Group; 171 minutes for the DK Group; 136 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 136 minutes for the Momentum Group; 136 minutes for the MSZP Group; 107 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 107 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 100 minutes for the LMP Group and 7 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representative of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate in the House Rule 37. Article 2 (2) (h) of the Rules of Procedure, if you have applied by the Head of the Group for a speech, to the time frame for the group; if you have made a direct application, an independent representative may, in addition to the 30-hour time frame, be present within a 7-minute time frame. The House Rule 37 shall address the representative or representative of the nationalities of Hungary, as well as the representatives and advocates of the other nationalities. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2022-06-20-44	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask this House, and it agrees with the fact that T/152. We will discuss this in a 30-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal by 129 votes to 32 with two abstentions. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda proposal. H/346 on the establishment of an ad hoc committee for the President of the State Court of Auditors The decision to make a proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the course of the decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament decides on the proposal for a resolution without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/346. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Thank you. The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 125 votes in favour, 40 votes against and no abstentions. I would ask the faction leaders to make their personal proposals for officials and members of the ad hoc committee, as far as possible, by 19:00 today at the latest. The decision on the personal proposal will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear House, Now, at 2:46 p.m., we're moving to interpellation negotiations. Before that, in a two-minute short technical break, I'd like to ask anyone who's not here to leave the room without being noticed. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the room.]] (Sunning: 14.47 14.49 (President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-06-20-45	I consider that whoever is in the Chamber would like to continue to listen, so I ask for silence from everyone. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, DK, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Although I don't know who's going to answer, because I don't see Minister in the courtroom. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Not so long ago, at the beginning of January, you were celebrating by more than 70,000 people completing the government's environmental consultation. At the time, Attila Steiner, State Secretary, pointed out in particular that he was accompanied by the principle of paying the polluter, and more than 67 percent voted in this consultation that illegal landfill should be subject to higher penalties. [[14.50]] Well, I'm asking you, how seriously can you take a government that's been illegally laid off half a million cubic meters and, in some opinions, can't even take action to transport hazardous waste? In my constituency, the 15th. In the district of Szentmihályi út, among other things, in the area behind Irinyi János barracks, half a million cubic metres of construction debris, in Hungarian, is waiting for transport, not a week, not a month, not a year, but quite exactly since the autumn of 2017. Although I still don't see Minister in the room [[Bence Rétvári: We can't even see the Gyurcsány.]] But I assume that, since his ministry will be responsible for environmental protection and waste management, he is well aware of this problem, which has been making the lives of thousands of people from Crab Palota, Pestújhely and New Palota miserable for many years now. My friend and predecessor, László Hajdu, former Parliamentary Representative of my constituency, visited the various ministries on exactly half a dozen occasions, including the Ministry of Interior, the agricultural wallet, in order to find out in Hungary how it is possible today that the public authorities are not able to act effectively, protect the environment most fundamentally, and transport half a million cubic meters of construction waste when the reporter even attached a video of pollution. Although the meaningless answers seemed to embarrass you at first that the state apparatus could not function properly to perform the most ordinary tasks, as the time passed and the excuses were running out, they went on to become more and more ridiculous political attacks. In autumn 2013, Tamás Schanda sang praises about your environmental policy. Since then, it has been almost a year and a half, nothing has changed except that Tamás Schanda has been generously paid for his political services, he has fallen up, and has become chief of staff of the President of the Republic, but this does not comfort those whom I represent here in Parliament. So I ask Minister how seriously the government's green policy can now be taken seriously, given the promise of the XV. district people, now that they're finally settling untenable conditions, they're moving hazardous waste, and the polluters are being tracked down and punished. I look forward to your honored answer. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-06-20-47	Thank you, Congressman Barkóczi. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-06-20-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to start by saying that I think that this is a more professional and important topic than talking about it in such a personal way. So, first of all, I would like to say this. I believe that there is no debate between us in the fact that protecting our environment, protecting our created world is an extremely important and shared interest and responsibility for all of us. Everyone must do what is necessary to protect the environment so that we can pass on our natural resources to future generations. This is precisely the purpose of the climate and nature conservation action plan, one of the key elements of which is the reduction of waste generated and the elimination of illegal waste in the country. In the summer of 2020 we set off to clean up the country! A project under which public organisations involved have so far accounted for 34,000 tonnes of illegal waste. This has been done on several occasions in my own constituency, so I have seen that this has actually been achieved. The waste radar application has so far been downloaded by more than 20,000 users, with the help of which we have managed to collect about 66,000 tons of waste across the country. One of the explicit aims of the Act amending certain laws on energy and waste management adopted by the Parliament is to reduce illegal waste and litter. We do not allow some people or companies to pollute domestic lands or waters, and those who continue to refuse to comply with the rules can expect harsh punishment. As you have pointed out, one of the most important principles of waste management and environmental protection is the polluter-pays principle, but in order to enforce this, it is necessary to carry out an official procedure. The determining authority shall take action against the cause of the pollution and shall recover from it the costs of eliminating the pollution that have been incurred so far. I would like to inform the Member that the said waste dumps are subject to official proceedings before the administrative court and, as far as we know, a police investigation is under way. the competent authorities are therefore doing their job. I inform you that according to the authorities there is no possibility of groundwater contamination, nor does it affect the water quality of the Szilas stream or Csömöri stream. Honourable Congressman, However, I regret that the bill has not been supported, which has developed a system of strict, immediate sanctioning of illegal landfillers, the elimination of illegal waste, and I also draw your attention to the fact that the government has not decided to remove a quarter of the trash cans in Budapest and save on the dismissal of people working in capital companies. I would also like to draw your attention to what you yourself have already pointed out, that in the case of environmental damage which you have just brought forward, in fact, the XV. led by the Democratic Coalition. the district council had the opportunity and, I add, the duty to act properly. However, I can assure you, of course, that the government is a priority to reduce waste generation and illegal landfills. In this regard, I think that the example and participation in various local actions can also be a very important element of our work, and that is why I ask you to accept my answer with the above information. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-49	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. I ask Congressman Barkóczi to accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2022-06-20-50	Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry, but I don't intend to accept your answer, and you're probably going to say that I'm being personal again. I'm very glad that your constituency is transporting illegal waste from the 15th century. District? You said yourself that the municipality has a responsibility in this. The municipality has taken the necessary steps, made the complaint, you have, before you have done anything, and the authorities have referred the whole thing back to re-examine, which will cost the municipality not millions, but billions. But speaking of the 15th. district government, only last year, the municipality committed HUF 500 million for the removal of illegal waste in public areas, and contacted the waste management authority because the penalty the municipality could impose on the polluter for which they did nothing to detect is a public debt. Richárd Tarnai from the Government Office of Pest County, which deals with waste management, has been told that the government office is not in a position to issue the level of punishment. So, I see, Madam Secretary, that you can say anything from you to the 15th floor. Circuits still can't count on anything good. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-51	Thank you very much. The answer was not accepted by the congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior: It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2022-06-20-52	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is not a year to avoid seeing the phenomenon in which the debt of hospitals and state clinics is increasing rapidly. This system generates debt between HUF 40 and HUF 70 billion a year, the consolidation of which must take place every year rather than otherwise being planned by the government. Typically, by the end of the year, the government will be towards suppliers, businesses that ensure the smooth functioning of health care; whether they are suppliers of assets or companies who also do curative and nursing work in public institutions. Hospitals started with nearly zero forints of debt this year, but by the end of April they had a debt of around HUF 19.5 billion again. Given that delivery of hospital supplies is very often a foreign product, the euro exchange rate and inflation, which is now double-digit, are making it more difficult to purchase hospitals and increasing their costs. [[15.00]] It also does not help that in these institutions it is always difficult to calculate on account of the lack of a recent adjustment of performance-based funding, how to plan care and how the coronal virus epidemic has made future care unplanned in many ways, based on the experience of recent years. As a right-wing conservative party, Jobbik is committed to providing a well-funded, strong, robust state care that adequately finances patient care in public care, and hospitals receive as much money as they need to, so that waiting lists can be avoided or events that have seen the light of day in the past, whether it is the closure of maternity classes for days or the sending of some patients to other hospitals. One thing is certain: it must also be committed to ensuring that businesses, especially small businesses and micro-enterprises, which are suppliers, are constantly waiting for months to pay their own fees by the end of the year, are safe, timely and adequate funding is available to them. In view of all this, I ask, Minister, is the funding of public hospitals and clinics changing this year? Do you have the amount to prevent the accumulation of debts? How much cost increases can inflation and forint weakening cause hospitals? What does the government intend to do about it? Will it be possible to make a larger debt settlement during the year so that the hospitals can settle their debts to suppliers, especially those who provide medical care services there? I look forward to your honest answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-20-53	Thank you very much, Congressman Luke. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-20-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we are talking about transparent farming, we certainly do not need to ask Jobbik for advice, because the State Audit Office has also said that you have failed to operate in a transparent way or to use your resources legally in 2019 and 2020. And what may not have happened in Hungarian party history since József Torgyán, was that your President, who is now hiding here from Parliament, has announced his own Vice-President because he believes that he has not dealt with public money legally. Then it turned out that, of course, he might not have reported it. We still don't know whether the claim that he may have filed a complaint against his own vice president was true or not. We know for a fact that harassment cases don't usually be reported if it's inside the party, but it doesn't seem to happen in public finances either. So much for your transparent and legitimate operation. There's only one position and money fight left in Jobbik. As far as health is concerned, the left had a program for hospitals, and you would have run to cut costs by shutting down 45 percent of hospitals. Then this has been extended since then, because one of their politicians, who is sitting here with you in the opposition's benches, said that not 45 percent of hospitals should be closed, but more. And we have heard from your leader Ferenc Gyurcsány here many times that he would re-introduce the visitation fee, that it was a meaningful reform, and he would do so today. And your candidate for Prime Minister even said that free health care is an illusion. In addition, your candidate for Prime Minister discussed this with their former group leader sometime when we saw it in a video. So, in short, less hospitals and more people's contributions, that was your prescription in health care. On the other hand, we have closed every year in health care with hospitals turning to zero, with no outstanding assets left, and we plan that in the future, even in the next period, if hospitals have any outstanding assets, sooner or later, as in previous years, we have tried to bring them down to zero. You know that the coronal virus epidemic has completely upset the hospitals' previous plans, and this has meant extra costs, but the government has never, in any case, said that any of the hospital's items are not paid for in connection with the epidemic, no matter how much extra expenditure it was, but we have always done it, always paid for it, we have always ensured that hospitals can operate. And obviously you also know that, at the moment, energy prices have increased in all countries of the world, especially in Europe, to an extent that is difficult for hospitals, and that there is an additional cost. It would be good if European politicians decided a little more carefully, not a little bit, but rather a very thoughtful one, and did not bring Europe into such a negative spiral that not only businesses in Western Europe, not just households, but even hospitals, have to expect extra costs because of the misguided sanctions policy and war inflation. So we will strive to ensure that all hospitals have these costs. The next year's budget is also planning a hundred billion-dollar surplus in health care. If I have been watching it since 2010, we have increased the resources of health care by well over HUF 1500 billion, precisely so that everyone can have a surplus. This was also because we are in the process of raising a radical doctor's salary, and this year the medical salary has increased by 38,5 percent, and it will rise again next year. Overall, over four years, we have increased medical wages by two and a half times and nurse's wages by 71 percent, and we have provided coverage in hospitals' budgets year after year, and we have also given these surpluses to hospitals and clinics in recent years, and this is obviously our plan for next year as well. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-20-55	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Luke to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-06-20-56	Dear Secretary of State, I'm not at liberty to accept the answer. In fact, there is something to smile about when the government tries to educate us in transparency, which, in emergency situations, hides data for 45 plus 45 days, if possible, has not published the numbers of hospital infections for years. [[Bence Rétvári: We published it in an international journal!]] We don't know where the thousands of ventilators that you've been operating, bought, and can't account for. They can't show us a building where they keep these, they show us a few hundred of them. By the way, there may be a warehouse in your constituency where they are, but it should be shown, Secretary of State Rétvári. [[Bence Rétvári: Opponents may go in and see it, led by Lajos Korózs!]] But one is clear, and this is what you see from your answer, Mr. Secretary: you are determined to do one thing, not to have a well-funded public health care, but to have a health care system from which patients are forced to your friends, who are already ready to jump with private care and private hospitals. You want people to be cured, not in Hungarian public health, but in private health. On the other hand, Jobbik wants to have a robust, well-funded public care [[Bence Rétvári: Is that why you'd shut down hospitals?]] so that everyone can get there on time and not have to wait on the waiting lists. You are in direct conflict with the health interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-20-57	Thank you very much. In accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Gelencsér, representative of Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, When will the Municipality of Buda be compensated on the basis of its deposits in Széchenyi Bank? It's an address. At the request of Mr Márton Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman Gelencsér.
u2022-06-20-58	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Mihály Varga, I would interpel him if he were here, but from what I see, there are 3, 6, 9, 12 Fidesz Members present. Your colleague and fellow warrior, Dr. Gábor Nagy Tamás has been the mayor of the first district of Budapest for 21 years. Its name is related to important and community matters such as the 90 percent cancellation of the Red Bull Air Race public reservation fee, despite the fact that the company did not ask for this; the 1-forint parking place in Budavár, which allowed some businesses to park at the Buda Castle for 1 forint per minute; the raid of the Budavár Municipality during the night; the purchase of representational wine for the municipality from its own ex-wife. But perhaps the most serious case is Széchenyi Bank Zrt. in the vicinity of bankruptcy. hereinafter referred to as "Széchenyi Bank" was a public contribution of HUF 500 million. After this very successful career, you rewarded Dr. Gábor Nagy Tamás by putting him up for his first employee consular position at the Embassy of Hungary in Vilnius. Congratulations. I'd like to ask the Minister about the last engagement in Széchenyi Bank if he's here. The Budavár Municipality committed HUF 500 million in a bank that was not covered, but in which the Ministry of National Economy, which you led, acquired 49 percent ownership in July 2013. Given this information, it's obviously a complete coincidence that District I chose this bank. When the Bank of Széchenyi went down in advance, Minister, in 2014 he received the following e-mail from Dr. Gábor Tamás Nagy: if we broke our ties and transferred back the committed money, 500 million forints, we would launch an avalanche that might cause panic, and confidence against a bank known as a state-owned bank could be shaken, and the consequences of this cannot be assumed. [[15.10]] This Decision shall enter into force [[CHAPTER XII 19.]] According to Government Resolution 21, the Government examined the situation with the withdrawal and winding-up of Széchenyi Bank's business authorisation and concluded that this was led by the activities of the majority shareholder effectively managing Széchenyi Bank for which it was responsible. According to the government decision, the Government also called on the Minister of National Economy to ensure that the claims of depositors, on the basis of their deposits provided by the OBA, in addition to the amount of compensation paid by the OBA, are paid in proportion to the level of the public ownership in the bank, i.e. 49 per cent. However, local authorities are not covered by the insurance provided by the OBA and are not covered by it. Based on all this, Gábor Tamás Nagy has invested HUF 500 million in public money, the money of the I. district in order not to embarrass the Fidesz-KDNP government. That was eight years ago, eight years ago, the district residents were waiting for their money, as you would say: this is how it happened historically. So I would ask the Minister: when will the Municipality of Buda be compensated on the basis of the deposits of HUF 500 million placed by Dr. Gábor Nagy in Széchenyi Bank by Tamás Nagy? How much compensation can the municipality expect? Will the amount of the committed deposit be adjusted with inflation? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-20-59	Thank you very much, Congressman Gelencsér. I give the floor to Deputy Minister János Fó Nagy.
u2022-06-20-60	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On 5 December 2014, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank withdrew Széchenyi Kereskedelmi Bank Zrt. the institution's operating licence, and has also ordered the winding-up of the institution, because the institution's operation has become unsustainable. Széchenyi Bank ceased operations in 2014, when the Hungarian State had 49 percent stake in the financial institution. The operation of the National Deposit Insurance Fund is governed by the Act of Credit Institutions, the provisions of which in force in 2014 excluded local governments from the category of eligible for compensation. In addition to the provision of the law, the Government also summoned the Member from 1802/2014. By its Resolution No.3 of the Government, it stated that it should take steps to maintain increased confidence in wholly or partly state-owned credit institutions. In this context, it ordered that depositors declared to be entitled by law to receive additional payments on the basis of their deposits provided by the National Deposit Insurance Fund, in addition to the amount of compensation paid by the OBA up to a threshold of EUR 100 000, in proportion to the level of public ownership in the bank, i.e. up to 49 percent. The damage suffered by the bank's eligible depositors was therefore further mitigated by the government by paying 49 percent of the outstanding debt to deposit holders in addition to the amount of compensation paid by the OBA in the case of secured deposits. The primary objective of the State compensation at Széchenyi Bank was to strengthen consumer confidence, with three quarters of those receiving compensation being individuals. Government decision was aimed primarily at reducing the damage suffered by them and reducing their losses. In addition to its statutory obligations, the government has, as has been said, provided for the compensation of eligible depositors. Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity, my fellow Members, for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-61	Thank you, Deputy Minister Major. I'll ask Congressman Gelencsér to accept the answer.
u2022-06-20-62	Mr. Speaker, Unfortunately, I cannot accept the Minister of State's reply, since he has not answered any questions, namely when the Municipality of Buda will be compensated, what amount and the amount committed will be corrected by inflation. These were my three questions, I didn't get any answers to any of the questions, so I can't accept it. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the Momentum.]]
u2022-06-20-63	Thank you. In accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2022-06-20-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In practice, since 2010, local government rights have been undermined, the financial opportunities of local authorities have been made impossible, which in fact makes domestic settlements increasingly difficult. Not only am I saying this, but all the local government associations, and even government leaders are raising a more critical voice against austerity. But it seems that this trend will continue next year, as we see the draft budget. Going back in time, for the first time in 2019, 60% of the car tax was taken, then the remaining 40 percent, referring to the coronal virus, which meant a revenue loss of 35 billion to the settlements, in fact providing zero room for manoeuvre for any development of the settlements. In 2017, a solidarity contribution to the tax of the municipalities was introduced, which was in vain to be said to support the municipalities. This amount was first 40 billion, then 160 billion a year later, and as we look at the next budget, it will be HUF 217 billion for the municipalities. In addition, a few weeks ago, it was reported that a government decree would force the municipalities out of the reduction of the rent with a single half sentence, which would further increase the burden on the domestic settlements. It is particularly painful that in 2020 the central budget still included the HUF 2 billion that was used to ensure local community transport by municipal authorities. This was no longer included in the budget in the coming years. I have made several proposals for a multi-faceted amendment in this respect to give back this resource to the municipalities. This only meant 328 million forints a year in my constituency, Szeged, which meant a serious cut for the settlement. But I think that all cities with county rights can say this, as well as the other nearly 50 settlements where there was public transport, at least in 2019 according to data, this number of settlements received this support. Moreover, while the withdrawal of this support is a huge austerity for cities, this amount is virtually incomprehensible as a budget line, as we are talking about only HUF 2 billion. For example, if we look at the support of the flagship sporting events, we see that this will increase from 10 to 29 billion in the following year, the support for competition sports will rise from 17 to 28 billion forints, and I could list items that will rise significantly higher in the following year. In view of this, I ask the Secretary of State to return the budget support for local public transport to the municipalities in 2023. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-20-65	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabo. I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai.
u2022-06-20-66	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The main task of the past two years has been to control the coronal virus epidemic, which has indeed affected all citizens, economic operators, businesses, public bodies and, of course, municipalities in the country, as the primary responsibility was to manage the health effects and to control the spread of the epidemic. It cannot be denied that the protection against the epidemic involved victims, that the whole country had a common cause, that it was a burden for the whole country, that the burden had to be shared between the banks and between the political parties, and that the municipalities had to be involved in this. This is what happened in the case you mentioned: before 2020, 40 per cent of the revenue from the tax on motor vehicles of municipalities was centralised in the framework of the control of the epidemic. At the same time, the amount transferred amounted to only 1 percent of the local government budget of some HUF 3000 billion. At the same time, the tax office, NAV, took over the tasks related to the collection of motor vehicle tax from the municipalities, and at the same time the sum of the Community transport aid amounted to HUF 2.1 billion. [[15.20]] But if we look at the local government budget, we can see that business tax revenues have increased spectacularly in municipal budgets. In ten years, the amount of business tax increased by about 80 percent in the municipal budget, representing nearly HUF 755 billion per year, for example compared to the previous year, with an increase of HUF 52.4 billion in 2021 annual data. But let's look at your city's municipal budget, which now requires HUF 328 million in funding! From 2011 to 14 Szeged received HUF 25.1 billion from the government through debt consolidation. If we look at Szeged's management over the last three years, we can see that Szeged's funds in 2019 amounted to HUF 39.8 billion, EUR 30.4 billion in 2020, HUF 29.4 billion in 2021, and HUF 31.5 billion in the first quarter of 2021. That's how much money Szeged has right now, that's how much money he's got, of which 21.7 billion he's handling in a commercial bank account. We can conclude that Szeged's management is stable, in a good financial situation, with a low debt and a small supplier's debt. He received significant government investments and support, for example in 2021 he received HUF 1 billion 950 million in the accounts of municipalities over 25 thousand. Several investments have been made, road 47, the main street of Pick Arena, Szeged, and we could list them. Honourable Congressman, You're demanding this kind of transport support from the government. I'm suggesting to you that from the 21 billion dollar reserve that you're pushing in front of the city every year, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] of which this amount can be easily financed and Community transport can easily be operated. (The President rang.) Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-67	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Sándor Szabó to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-20-68	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot accept your reply, Mr State Secretary, because this Community transport aid, as I said, concerns cities with county rights and 50 settlements, and we are talking about a million people in total. This is not an option, because public transport is necessary to go to work, to get to a doctor, and, in fact, to make our cities viable, is a mandatory task which I think cannot be saved. And you didn't answer the question that this would be included in the next year's budget, and this cost will, by the way, bear a considerable burden, I still think of the municipalities, because buses cannot be refueled with state-of-the-art fuel. So I suggest that you put it in the next year's budget, and I would like to say once again that the budget line cannot be interpreted as a budget line of HUF 2 billion. So I can't accept your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of DK, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-20-69	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabo. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Foreman Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: "What will become of the government's demography programme? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2022-06-20-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Hungarian Movement is calling for a demographic land programme to bring the young couples who are susceptible to it to the ground, after it has been announced by the government in its programme "The National Strategy for Rural Development 2012-2020" and nothing has been implemented, and even the secretary of state Ángyán József Ángyán, who presented this excellent proposal, has been cancelled. That he then joined the Balliberals should be their shame, but the absence of this excellent program is the responsibility of the government. Therefore, we must resuscitate this demographic earth programme at 24 hours, as the population explosion of Gypsy is particularly worrying in rural areas. [[Ferenc Gelencsér smacks his hands together.]] While the government does not provide a living space for working Hungarians. The document with the subtitle of the Constitution of the Hungarian countryside, which forms part of the government programme, was not officially repealed, but was quietly removed from the kormany.hu side, and even the videoktrategia.kormany.hu itself does not exist anymore, and instead of the youth-owner-life model, it sold out a significant proportion of the available land funds to the Orbán government's own clienture. The Hungarian demographic indicators are extremely worrying, and I quote from the national rural strategy that has been sabotaged your clever sentences. If the current negative demographic trends in Hungary continue, the country's population will fall to 7-8 million by 2050. The demographic situation in rural areas is particularly critical within the country. In rural areas, the population will soon grow old. As a result of the unfavourable processes, the current host society will not have sufficient replacement and the proportion of inactive layers will place an enormous burden on the active layers. For this reason, it is a key issue for the countryside to have young people on the ground who, in addition to rural life, choose farming and have an adequate number of children. So be it. I wish I had. But you sabotaged it. I would add that some areas threaten to become social ghettos with emptying and severe unemployment. The average age of people living in farming is also constantly increasing, and if there is no supply, domestic food production may be permanently out of our hands, which could put the food and food safety of the whole society at risk. Today, it is clear that these lands were not intended by the Orbán government for young people, but for the government's own lunar yard, which was soon to be launched after József Ángyán's resignation, and which the Hungarian Movement wants to bring back into the political agenda. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 24 hours. So is the government willing to make this part of their program again? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-20-71	Thank you, Congressman President Novak. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-06-20-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It should be stressed at the outset that it is rather strange to use a more than ten-year-old substance that describes and reflects pre-2010 conditions as a valid analysis in 2022. As a result, I find that the approach to this issue is wrong. The most important social and economic policy objectives of post-2010 governments are to better translate demographic processes in rural areas and to strengthen the rural economy. This was accompanied by complex policy measures, of which I would highlight the outstanding family support system in the EU comparison, including village CSOK, rural infrastructure development, nursery, kindergarten and school development or support for rural enterprises, without the need for completeness. Turning to agricultural policy, it is important to mention that agricultural subsidies provide farmers with production and income security, encourage efficiency and competitiveness-enhancing investments, and directly promote generation renewal through targeted support for young farmers, young people becoming farmers. The success of the government's economic, social and agricultural policies is indicated by the positive turnaround in rural demographic and labour market processes. The increase in employment rates and unemployment in rural areas has led to a marked increase in employment rates in rural areas over a decade's horizon, in comparison with the EU. According to Eurostat data, the employment rate in rural areas increased from 50 to 66 per cent between 2010 and 2020, which is the best result in the EU as a whole, with unemployment rates falling from 14.3 per cent to 5.7 per cent over the same period. This will contribute to a trend shift in migration from rural areas by 2020. While the migration rate in rural areas per thousand inhabitants was minus 4,19 per cent in 2010, one of the worst values in the European Union, the indicator turned into a surplus by 2020 to almost 1 per cent. [[15.30]] The increase in rural society is also indicated by the rise in birth rates between 2010 and 20 from 8.5 to 9.8, which is the biggest improvement in the EU as a whole. In the area of agriculture, huge efforts have been made over the last decade to promote generational change, with two decisive legislations: both the Law on the transfer of family farms and the Law on the favourable taxation of family farms. Honourable Congressman, It should be pointed out that it is also possible to help young farmers to switch generations and start their farming operations effectively by means of a policy of support. According to the decision of the Government of Hungary, until 2027 we will spend some HUF 4265 billion on the development of the countryside, agriculture and the food industry, including young farmers will benefit from these subsidies. Measures to encourage the conversion of the generation of producers were summarised in a separate basic programme of rural development after 2010, under which young farmers will be entitled to support more than 10 percentage points in calls for proposals to support different investments, with tens of billions of HUF development resources in addition to the basic aid intensity. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] sent to them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. I ask Mr. President Novák to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-06-20-74	Secretary of State talked about a lot of things but not what I asked. There is no doubt the government's performance in agriculture, but I asked about the demography programme, which is also shown by the title of the National Rural Strategy 2012-2020, that this should have been implemented by now. Unfortunately, we have not heard of this, although the aim of the planned programme would have been to give tenancy rights between 25 and 50 years of age and training, loans, market access support and other benefits to young couples and families who undertake to settle or stay in rural areas, to deliver two or more children, to raise children with honor, and to pursue agricultural activities in a way of life. Nothing from the precisely described demographic land programme has been implemented, so I cannot accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-20-75	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, András Imre Jámbor, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Why not extend the moratorium on eviction? It's an address. Congressman András Imre Jámbor has the floor.
u2022-06-20-76	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to apologize for the wrong address in the written version of the interpellation. Dear Madam Secretary, On 31 May 2022, the Government decree which ordered that the disposal of immovable property and the auctioning of immovable property should only take place from the 15th day following the end of the emergency. Thus, although the emergency is maintained by the government on the basis of the Russian-Ukrainian war, the eviction moratorium ceased on 15 June. You don't know exactly how many properties are being evicted right now, but if you count the numbers before Covid and the livelihood crisis, it could be up to 10,000. As a journalist and a resident of Yózsefváros, I have unfortunately followed a number of evictions in the last decade. It is quite clear to me: with ad hoc support, in the eviction of families with children, by banning eviction without accommodation, a comprehensive housing measure with a plan for thousands of families, if not tens of thousands of them can be saved from housing poverty or coming straight out of the street. Dear Madam Secretary, At the start of a livelihood crisis, the symptoms of the housing crisis will get worse. It would be necessary to develop a housing concept for the government, to build a housing home, to assist the support system, social work and debt settlement for families in distress. We also see that in the last year there has been a major storm in the case of Völner, a number of media reports have come to light that the Executive Faculty has handled evictions by or across the line of legality. State Secretary Répássy promised to investigate them earlier. Did anything happen in this case? Dear Madam Secretary, You just gave me a chance to protect the tens of thousands who could be on the street. That's why I'm asking: why don't you extend the eviction moratorium? When will the fundamental right to housing be introduced into the Fundamental Law? When is uninstalled eviction prohibited, at least for families with children? Have you carried out a survey of how many people will be affected by the release of the moratorium? What measures have been initiated to help families in mass trouble? Does the government have an action plan to solve the housing crisis? Are you planning to support the government's rental building or a government rental construction program? Is the government planning to build the 5800 apartments previously promised in the context of Student City? Is the government planning to examine the irregularities that have occurred in the Executive Chamber's actions over the last decade, or does the Government support a case-by-case committee to review the legality practices of the Executive Faculty? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-20-77	Thank you very much, Congressman András Jámbor. I give the floor to Minister Judit Varga.
u2022-06-20-78	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for your attention, the Minister's Master Address often remains in the interpellations as an editorial error. First of all, let me stress that the Hungarian government, by assessing the very harmful effects of the emergency on the national economy and the changes in living conditions of the population, has helped with a number of measures during the coronal virus pandemic and, as a result of war inflation, the livelihood and housing of the Hungarian people. He has made a wide range of proposals, practically all of which have been part of the existing legal system since 2015, and unfortunately the four-minute timeframe is not enough to list all this, but I will highlight the point. Such an extraordinary and limited-term measure was the eviction moratorium, which I personally initiated as the former Minister of Justice in March 2020. Therefore, it is worth recalling what happened in 2020 that, after the announcement, we were among the first to have this in Europe, and beyond the emergency situation, also in view of the difficult situation of debtors, the rule that, at the debtor's request, the court may suspend enforcement even if the debtor is in a situation in the context of the epidemiological measures which is an appropriate circumstance in terms of performance. I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that people who, as a result of their social circumstances and circumstances, need support can also request assistance from the local government through a wide variety of procedures, such as the debt settlement procedure or other forms of support. But most importantly, it has been seven years, and we are talking about the amendment in 2015: the LIII of the year on the implementation procedure. the national government has also included in law the provision that, if the debtor's property is seized and if the property is auctioned, the executing officer shall notify the competent notary in order to ensure that it provides for the housing of residents of the property within the available limits if they cannot or need to do so without their own fault. The Hungarian government also expects the municipalities to enforce this legal provision. He mentioned his experience as a local government, and I ask that he also formulate this interpellation towards the municipal and municipal notaries, as they are the centres of action now. I would also like to refer here to the fact that, in view of the Emergency Government Decree, under which the deadlines were restarted on 15 June, all deadlines have been restarted, this is also an extension of this moratorium, even when the notary was notified, and from then on the notary has 60 days to arrange for, if the debtor indicates, housing or housing. These 60 days, if there is a family or resident who cannot resolve this without his own fault, the notary has sufficient time. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, contrary to what I have received in writing in your interpellation, the evacuation of real estate within the framework of the enforcement procedure is not carried out in order to achieve a distorting effect on the housing market. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these procedures are not initiated on the initiative of the government. These proceedings shall take place solely on the basis of a decision or judgment given in judicial or administrative proceedings where the debtor's voluntary performance is or is not able to do so. It is also necessary to take into account the need to enforce final judicial decisions in a rule of law. This moratorium was already in force for more than two years, and remember, there may also be families in need on the side of creditors who would not be able to obtain their money. [[15.40]] So I also contacted the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities in order to monitor the procedures initiated in particular. I would therefore like to point out once again that those who cannot pay the loans without their own fault are at the disposal of the municipalities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and this is precisely the solution to the problem of the adult rental structure. I still had something to say, but thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-20-79	Thank you very much, Secretary Judit Varga. I ask Mr András Jámbor to accept the Minister's reply.
u2022-06-20-80	Thank you very much for the answer, but I can't accept it. You took the money from the debt settlement fund, and you told the municipalities to help the people in trouble, of course, but we didn't give them any money. Local governments have been gradually looted by the current government in recent years. In such a situation, waiting for the authorities to help those in distress without receiving government support is absurd. It is absurd, too, because the government has the opportunity to change the social law, to give money for these situations, or, say, raise the wages of social workers who can help in these situations. This is not a municipal authority in principle, and if we are looking for powers that go beyond government, that is why we are here in Parliament. So I'm asking you to find ways to help these people. The options mentioned in the reply were all related to the emergency situation earlier. [[Dr. Judit Varga: Before and after!]] and there was no possibility for future procedures to be launched after 60 days. I mean, he didn't respond at all to the Völner case and to investigating the omissions of the Executive Faculty, and I think there's plenty of room here that we should be looking at. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-20-81	Thank you, Congressman András Jámbor. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Why is Fidesz protecting the extra profit of the multinationals with ten nails? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2022-06-20-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Last week, the Committee on Economic Affairs presented a proposal for a resolution to reject the introduction of a minimum global tax. It is obvious and we know that the Fidesz government's economic policy in this respect is extremely neoliberal, supporting the tax evasion of multinational companies, hoping to benefit from attracting international capital from other countries with a low corporate tax rate and a hundred billion direct subsidies. In Hungary, corporate tax is 9 percent, it is a tax haven level. The same tax is 30 percent in Germany, 28 percent in France, 22 percent in Denmark, 25 percent in Austria and 19 percent in Poland and the Czech Republic. Even the tax haven Ireland is working with a 12.5 percent tax rate. Nine percent in Hungary. Nowhere else will the multik pocket be filled with such unscrupulous effort, by reducing the corporate tax rate to 9 percent, Fidesz deprived the country of HUF 1500-2000 billion in six years. The Fidesz government is also trying to benefit from dexterity and damage to others instead of finding and building common good. It would obviously be in the common interest of the world's people and countries, including our country, that international large companies should not be able to evade tax or hide their profits. To do this, the basis for corporate tax should first be harmonised and then the tax rates. If we did, large companies would be forced to pay much more of their profits into the local budget. The Hungarian government foolishly believes that this downward tax competition can be a winner, that the national interest is the tax reduction, even though it has only one winner, and multinational companies and their losers are citizens of countries and countries. We see that these missing funds can be replaced, for example, by record-high VAT. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Will you finally see that by rejecting the global minimum tax, they will only increase the extra profit of the multinationals, will you really cooperate with other countries in standardising the basis and rate of the partnership tax? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-20-83	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai.
u2022-06-20-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I must admit, I'm a little surprised by your arguments, because I don't really understand why it's wrong for a country to attract capital into the country. I do not understand why it is wrong for a country to be able to provide support within the framework of EU legislation when it comes to investing and creating jobs. You call the corporate tax system in Hungary a tax haven; I do not understand why it is wrong if the budget can provide it within the tax system. I do not understand that if someone invests capital in the country, creates a job and then pays taxes, obviously the personal income tax, the employer's taxes on employees, why is that a problem? That's exactly what this is about. Hungary wishes to protect and protect this result when it does not support the introduction of a global minimum tax. He does not support it, because what is not good is that we have finally achieved that we are tempting with our tax system and that significantly more investment and investment is coming into the country than before when the key to corporate tax was higher? By rejecting the minimum tax, this is what we want to achieve. But that was not the original aim of introducing a global minimum tax. The individual pillar, which is now forgotten, is to tax large companies and companies where there is actually consumption, value creation, real activity. But for example, for Facebook and Google, this failed to be displayed in the global minimum tax system, in the presentation. However, the fact that the higher-taxing countries to other smaller, developing countries like Hungary should be burdened with a higher tax is included in this proposal. It includes that Hungary should not be attractive, should not be tempting to such investments, to such businesses. It includes the elimination of Hungary's competitive advantage, the competitive advantage that has been obtained with great difficulty. By the way, according to a survey, Hungary has made eight places forward in terms of competitiveness by a Swiss company, and 59 percent of those surveyed said that the tax system in Hungary is very favourable, thus tempting for investors. Now, that's a competitive advantage we'd lose. The other question arises with regard to the fact that it will be introduced all over the world, perhaps in the United States, but the condition is that it should be introduced first in the European Union. The European Union, as I said in the previous speech, should shoot itself in the leg and then the world will do something. China and then the United States will see that, oh, this is the way they tax in Europe? It's great, is Hungary like this? That's great, and then we'll do something. Well, that is the point of this, Congressman, which is why we do not support it, and not because of what you say, because the multinationals in Hungary are heavily taxed. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-20-85	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister Tallai. I will ask Congressman Csárdi to accept the Secretary of State's reply as Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-20-86	Thank you very much. I can't accept the answer. As the answer has shown, and as virtually everyone in this country already knows, your economic policy could be described in two sentences. You are protesting against the minimum tax that would burden large companies with a consolidated turnover of EUR 750 million, but you are extremely effective in taking action against the smallest group of taxpayers using simplified forms of taxation today. [[15.50]] These two sentences perfectly describe your economic policy. And just what they're giving up: Audi had a profit before tax of HUF 123.6 billion in the previous year, of which HUF 1 billion was paid into the state register, 0.87 percent. The same indicator is worse than MOL, because it was practically higher than its tax results before tax, while Richter paid 0.03 percent corporate tax at 0.03 percent! After a HUF 141 billion profit... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2022-06-20-87	Thank you very much...
u2022-06-20-88	... 38 million HUF [[The president's ringing again.]] I don't want to pay for an apartment. [[Applause from the benches of LMP and DK.]]
u2022-06-20-89	I say to Congressman that you know precisely that you have a one-minute rejoinder. [[Antal Csárdi: I apologize.]] The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos and Szilárd Németh, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Brussels continues to work on the resettlement and compulsory distribution of immigrants despite increasing migration aggression? It's an address. Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2022-06-20-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, The pandemic, the Ukrainian war and the energy crisis have put a very important security challenge in the background: this is also a huge, growing and more aggressive migration risk and migratory pressure on our southern borders. Over the last seven years, Hungary's Government has taken decisive measures against Hungary and Europe as a whole, in particular against migration which poses a serious threat to the socialisation of the Member States, the security of its civilian population and the preservation of its culture. A number of Member States that have previously criticised Hungary for its protection measures have now considered this reasonable approach to be justified and correct. Today, when there is a war on the territory of neighbouring Ukraine, from which we have already adopted more than 750 thousand refugees, it has become clear that Hungary is making a distinction between refugees and migrants. We provide protection, care, work and learning opportunities for all Ukrainian refugees, as we are talking about our neighbour and even our Hungarian brothers in Transcarpathia. However, we cannot provide the same care to those who are not fleeing a direct threat or persecution, but are primarily seeking better living conditions. Over the past decade, it has been proven that third-country migrants have created diasporas, so-called no-go zones, which threaten public security, in most Western European and Northern EU Member States, with an increasing number of people unable to integrate. On the southern border section of Hungary there are more and more acts of violence, armed and masked illegal migrants are trying to cross the Hungarian border fence with ladders. Lately, they've been regularly attacking, threatening the border guards and soldiers, and they don't want security footage of them. Illegal immigrants used increasingly harsh methods, shots fired, stones, bricks, axes, hammers thrown at the police. Is Brussels, as it has been before, just waiting for the problem to be resolved on its own, or is it possible that something might be done to deal with the situation? With all due respect, Madam Secretary, does Brussels continue to work on the resettlement of immigrants and the compulsory quota despite increasing migratory aggression? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-91	Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh. I give the floor to Minister Judit Varga.
u2022-06-20-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have also explained that we are living in a time of danger and uncertainty, and that the war in our neighbourhood, and the economic crisis that it caused and the inflation of war, are also threatening the financial security of Hungarian people today, and we know that the events of the last few days show that this conflict will not ease in the coming period. Therefore, the most important and highlighted task of the Hungarian government since the beginning is to stay out of this war and to protect Hungary's peace and security, to protect our families, and to ensure that the price of this war is not paid by the Hungarian people. In addition, we must not forget that, as a neighbouring Member State to Ukraine, Hungary is doing everything it can to provide and protect those fleeing from war, it must continuously protect its southern borders. We know the data: this year, the Hungarian authorities blocked more than 92 thousand illegal border crossings until 12 June, and 93 percent of the persons concerned were caught directly near the Hungarian border. We know that migration movements towards Europe are not easing, on the contrary, they have doubled compared to the same period last year. This is also due to the fact that the situation created by the war is being exploited by smugglers, by illegal immigrants, and they hope that the authorities burdened by the Ukrainian refugee crisis will not notice them as they enter the Schengen area undetected. In addition, we can see that the pattern of behavior is in a straight line with the increase in numbers, as these attempts to break and enter are becoming increasingly aggressive. We know that you've attacked border guards over 200 times on the southern border, that you've injured 28 police officers. But we can see that the beginning of this whole crisis was already the 2015 migration crisis. Hungary first called for the protection of the external borders in the European Union, which was later confirmed by the construction of a physical border closure, although I experienced this on my own skin at the time, as I was working in Brussels, accompanied by a terrible international tsunami. Several countries, such as Belgium and Germany, now recognise that this border closure helps not only to protect Hungary but also to protect the security of the entire Schengen area and of the European Union as a whole. Yet, despite this, we see that several infringement proceedings are still under way in connection with the Hungarian border closure and the legal border closure; and we also see that there is a migration package on the Brussels negotiating table that has not yet set aside to send a type of invitation to the rest of the world, setting migration as a positive enemy. And even though the quota is being baptised in various proposals, at the end of the day, it will be able to get out of this shamy robe very quickly and turn into a mandatory quota, which is why it is very important to keep this migration package together and keep our partners in mind that the world has changed. We see that as early as last August, several countries asked the European Commission for money to build a fence, while infringement proceedings against us are under way, precisely because of the physical border closure. So I can assure you, Member, that the Hungarian Government will continue to defend this firm position, with which we reject any binding quotas, and despite any devising, we will not allow the quota to crawl back into the European migration package, even through the back door. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-93	Thank you very much, Secretary Judit Varga. I will ask Szilárd Németh to accept the answer.
u2022-06-20-94	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I fully agree with you, and I guarantee the support of the Fidesz-KDNP for the Hungarian Government's dual protection of the security and sovereignty of our country, because, on the one hand, there is enormous physical pressure on the Schengen border, from the south, as I mentioned; it is organised actions. During this period, in this six-month period, which you mentioned, we've captured 319 smugglers, and now we're at 715. So you can clearly see an organized, aggressive pressure. But there's an even more aggressive, even more organized pressure, and it's from the northwest, as you said, pushing the quota, implementing the Soros plan. We must fight both of them, and we will ensure that the Hungarian Government has my support and our support. And I accept your answer with great respect. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-20-95	Thank you very much. He accepted the answer to the interpellation question. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. How does next year's budget provide resources for family support introduced by the Government? It's an address. Mr. István Simicskó, Head of the Group, Member, has the floor. [[16.00]]
u2022-06-20-96	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, When the Fidesz-KDNP government was given the opportunity to manage the country in 2010, we were able to take over the country in a very serious economic, bankrupt state, we all know that, we remember those difficult times. Since then, I must say, the Fidesz-KDNP government has encountered countless challenges over the past 12 years. I would refer here only to a few, although we have all lived through these; among other things: the red mud disaster, the enormous devastating power of the Danube flood, the pandemic over the past two years, no one has expected this to happen, and there has been a war in our neighbourhood, which has very, very serious economic, social, diplomatic, political and security policy implications. Of course, there is a great deal of danger to both Europe and Hungary in itself. So the government is going through trials, and my question, my interpellation, is about how the government is able to implement the economic policy that has started and, in particular, a priority family policy, a family support policy in the midst of the current crises, in view of the negative effects of the current war. We, on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, are pleased to hear the various statements of the government and see the planned budget framework and figures, yet I would like to ask you how the fate of the families will be next year, what you can expect, what subsidies from the government, because there has been a great deal of support for Hungarian families that is, I must say, exemplary, unique throughout Europe. KDNP is a family party, and we know that children are our future, so it is very, very important that we create every opportunity for Hungarian families to have a worthy and predictable future from the government, and that subsidies should not narrow down, but expand. I therefore respectfully ask the State Secretary what concrete plans the government has for strengthening and continuing the family support system. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-20-97	Thank you very much, Mr. István Simicskó Group Leader. I give the floor to the secretary of state, Eszter Vitalyos. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2022-06-20-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, As the old saying goes, let's get out of the stove. This stove, in our view, means the warmth of the home and the peace of the family. This is what we need to ensure in Hungary with respect for families, reducing their spending. This results in peace, security and planning. Since the family-friendly turnaround in 2010, we have been working year after year to make it easier to start a family, have children, raise children and create a home in Hungary. The protection of the family and the child is also laid down in our Fundamental Law, and much of the family support can be claimed from the age of the fetus. As opposed to pro-immigration policy, we want to reverse demographic trends by relying on internal resources. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) Dear Chief of Staff, On the basis of the budget before this House, it is clear that we will keep our promise both now and in the future, that we will not take away existing benefits, that we will not save on families in times of crisis. As you have said, we are living in the age of danger, but we cannot let those goals go. Therefore, in 2023 the budget provides some HUF 3225 billion in support of families, which is nearly HUF 450 billion higher than the amount of funding in the 2022 budget, and we spend nearly three and a half times more on families than in 2010. Families and young people are also strongly supported through the tax system. Thanks to family-type taxation, a family of three children with average income does not actually pay personal income tax, we provide mothers with four children with a life-long exemption, and from 1 January 2022 young people under 25 years of age are also exempt from personal income tax. Next year, the budget will provide more than HUF 495 billion for the continuation of housing subsidies. Next year, the amount of support for children's meals will continue to increase. In 2023 there is already about HUF 100 billion available for this purpose, which is about HUF 70 billion more than in 2010. The free textbook supply has become full from the 2020/21 academic year, with more than HUF 13 billion being spent by the government next year. The complex cradle development will result in a minimum of 70,000 seats completed by the end of 2022 or under construction. Thanks to family-friendly governance, we have seen the best increase in fertility rates in Europe since 2010, and we have the most increased number of marriages in the European Union; they last married more in 1986 than in 2020. The number of marriages doubled between 2010 and 2020. More and more children are born in marriage, and more and more people decide to live in large families. Divorce rates are down six decades, divorce rates are down, divorce rates are down. However, our work is far from over. We will continue to work in the future to maintain existing family support, to expand the opportunities available, to create a complex family support system that can set an example and direction throughout Europe. We believe that the Hungarian future is in Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-20-99	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. I will ask Mr. Group leader to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-06-20-100	Yes, Mr. President, I accept. It was comforting to hear the words of the secretary of state that the government continues to give priority to supporting families, encouraging children, and indeed seeing the future in Hungarian families. For us, this is extremely important, and I believe that Hungarian families perceive this. More and more people see that during a difficult period, they can rely only on the Fidesz-KDNP government and its family policy, and the government helps all Hungarian families. I am pleased that, in such a period of war, the government is trying to deal with the adverse effects of this prolonged war on the one hand, with the Rezségvédő Fédőség and on the other hand with the Defence Fund, and at the same time with increasing family support for next year. Thank you very much for your reassuring reply, I accept. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-20-101	Thank you, Mr. Simicskó Group Leader, so you have accepted the response to the interpellation. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item, immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister did not reply personally, and Mr. Balázs Orbán gave the right to reply in his absence. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-06-20-102	I would not deprive ourselves, myself, or the kind viewers of listening to the Prime Minister, so I will not accept the person of the responder, and I will wait for the Prime Minister. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-20-103	Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and László Varju, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long can we keep pushing the string, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave the right to reply. I ask both Members to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. [[Intercoms, including, "They're not in the room."]] Gergely Arató, László Varju are not present? [[For signal:]] They're not here. Then we'll move on. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask Mr Péter Jakab and Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, he accepts the person of the response, or they ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-06-20-104	Thanks for the opportunity, but I'll wait for the hangman. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Moore from the pro-government benches. Bence Rétvári: You weren't here either! Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, among them: And where were you? Without sound:]] But isn't he here? We expect an answer from him.
u2022-06-20-105	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Regional Development an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Tibor Navracsics is present. So you have the floor, Congressman Brenner Koloman.
u2022-06-20-106	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, It is in the common interest of all of us that, in this extremely difficult economic and social crisis, Hungarian citizens have access to what is legally available: EU funds. There's no debate between us. I would like to ask you, Minister, with all due respect, what is the set of arguments and the state represented by the Hungarian Government when you are continuing negotiations with the European Union and its various bodies. [[Bence Rétvári: Position!]] which gives us a good chance to obtain this extremely necessary amount of money for Hungarian citizens as soon as possible in this very difficult period of crisis. I would also like to draw your attention here to the fact that, among other things, Minister, Fidesz will be willing to conclude the necessary compromises this time after 12 years of one-party overpower. So I ask you, Minister, you understand that you are finally willing to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We understand that, let us say, the Media Council is finally willing to elect opposition members to change the completely distorted media situation that the European Union is always criticising publicly about our country. So, in conclusion, would you be willing to at least partially restore the true European and conservative value that Jobbik, our right-to-right centre conservative party, is the rule of law, which is not to be confused with other concepts with which Brussels is generally accused? We are talking about very, very important European Union funds. Since in the new government, you seem to be one of the ministers who is acting for EU funds, I look forward to your meaningful response. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-20-107	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Tibor Navracsics.
u2022-06-20-108	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for asking. And you see, time and historical reflection are also useful, at least for me, because I remember precisely the time when the representatives of the same party whipped me for why I did not leave the European Union Hungary and how I could be so loyal and serviced in relation to the European Union. I stayed where I was then, and I'm still there. From what I can see, the Jobbik seems to have the opposite view. He asked me what my argument system is, which I refer to when I negotiate with representatives of the Commission or with others. This is very simple, because between 2010-14, I have had many discussions with the representatives of the then Commission, Neelie Kroes, Vivien Reding, and I have learned it then, and I have represented it in Hungarian politics, that in a debate, there is always a point where one is right, and it succeeds in enforcing it, there is one where he is right, but he does not succeed in enforcing it, and there is one where he is wrong, and he has to allow it. That is what I am prepared for in this debate. We've got arguments, we've got arguments, we've got arguments. There are some places where it is proven that we are wrong, that we need a reasonable compromise, that we are right, and that the negotiator takes a step back. I don't think there's anything scandalous about it. We're in the middle of a negotiation process. The deadline will allow us to negotiate. I see that the negotiating parties are open to our argument at expert level and at political level. Please allow one comment only to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office in a footnote. Laura Codruța, the European Attorney General, just recently stated that she has excellent cooperation with the Hungarian authorities, much better cooperation than with the authorities of many countries that have joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If the choice had to be made between the two, I would say that our cooperation with the European Public Prosecutor's Office should remain excellent, apart from that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-109	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Brenner is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2022-06-20-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, you have not answered my questions. Who changed and in what direction 32 years ago, I remember a radically liberal politician named Viktor Orbán, who I looked at through the ORF, say, when we recently remembered this anniversary on 16 June he gave that speech about the ominous one. I think that Jobbik is standing where it should be at the end of a very excellent EPP process. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: On the edge of the abyss!]] Plus, I'd think about it. [[Dóra Dúró: What percentage is it? Two percent!]] I think that the Minister does not feel ashamed, for example, that he had to disguise himself as KDNP, say, to sneak up on the European People's Party, and then, of course, he could not speak to a leader in substance. I think that what concrete compromises they are willing to make in finally restricting the power of Fidesz, building a one-party overpower, like a fair EU state, requires a little more than these generalities. [[Bence Rétvári: In the shadow of Gyurcsány!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-20-111	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2022-06-20-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, I don't like personal, but if you want, you can. I don't know why you had to watch Imre Nagy's funeral on ORF 32 years ago when Magyar TV gave it full-time [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks. Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: It wasn't paid for!]] But it's your choice, you know that. You know why he was watching ORF. I'm not wearing a disguise. I've been a member of KDNP since 2003. I resent being accused of disguise. And in the fact that he has a positive ending, we agree that the Jobbik is where it should be, look at it. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-113	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, András Fekete-Győr, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Can the government enter the same river twice? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask Mr András Fekete-Győr, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-06-20-114	The last one. Thank you. Next week. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-20-115	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr. Miklós Hajnal, representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question:. Who decides who can take part in the government briefing? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Csaba Dömötör was entitled to reply. I ask Mr Miklós Hajnal to accept the person of the response, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-06-20-116	Thank you very much, yes, I accept.
u2022-06-20-117	You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-118	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Many times, it is heard from government representatives or even the Prime Minister himself that the press is free in Hungary, and even when they are in a very funny mood, they sometimes say that there is a left-wing media overweight in Hungary. However, there would be an interface where media overweights or not, each press organ can ask the government's representative, and this is the government briefing organised by the Government Information Centre, which is usually attended by the Prime Minister and the government spokesperson. [[16.20]] So I ask the Secretary of State, under what conditions and who decides which media service provider is allowed into the Government Info. How do you decide who's invited to the government briefing? How do you decide who's gonna ask the government info? And can you personally name who decides who gets the invitation to the Government briefing, and who doesn't? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-20-119	Thank you very much, Congressman Miklós Dawn. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2022-06-20-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since it's been a well-functioning institution for years, I can't tell you exactly who sent the invitation to each Government Info, this has certainly changed on a case-by-case basis. One thing is certain: this is one of the most important means of keeping the government informed about what it is doing and why it is doing it. Please note that the range of participating media has been relatively stable for many years. Please also note that registration for this type of government press conference is a standard practice at international level, and please also note that such press conferences have a capacity to receive each room. I do not think that we should go into the technical details of this, all the more so, because at the same time the government ensures that every Hungarian citizen and every journalist can monitor what has been said at the Government Info, so much so that even during the period of the epidemic, when distance rules were in place, everyone could send their questions in writing. [[Kálmán Olga: No one answered!]] , representatives of the Government, in some cases the Prime Minister has responded for long periods of time and, where appropriate, for hours. On social media sites, we also allow everyone to monitor these government information. You know very well that if you follow these government information, there is no question that can't be asked to the government. [[There's a grumble in opposition lines.]] journalists regularly make use of this possibility for hours. This is a big difference from your practice, for example, because the left does not regularly hold Budapest Info, this is the case, and you have even boycotted certain media, and some journalists are regularly insulted. Either way, if journalists want to ask questions to the government, they can do so on a regular basis, with a wide range of publicity; this has been and will continue to be the case. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-121	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Congressman Miklós Dawn has the right to a rejoinder.
u2022-06-20-122	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, the Secretary of State said we've been talking about a well-functioning institution for years. Unfortunately, this institution seems to be having some problems. In any case, reception capacity is one of these, so I would suggest that they find a larger room, because in June 2021 both Direkt36 and the Hungarian Voice reported that they were not allowed into the Government Info when they were supposed to be registered separately, they were not allowed to do so. In April 2022, the Hungarian Voice reported that they had not received an invitation, received it from another journalist, and then when they tried to register, they were not allowed in. So I would like to ask you a very simple question, I hope that you can and dare to answer this on behalf of the entire State Secretariat, Prime Minister's Office, on behalf of everyone: you can guarantee that in the future these media will be invited and allowed into the Government Info, because we really need continuous information, we really need everyone to ask their questions; we are waiting for this guarantee. Thank you so much for giving it to us. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-123	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2022-06-20-124	Forgive me for not knowing the history of this question or this correspondence, so I cannot answer specifically. One thing I know for sure: the government will continue to answer all the questions in the future and ensure that the Government itself receives as much publicity as possible. I respect your kind suggestions, but after a certain history, I take them in doubt. After all, you were the ones who broke into the newsroom to take account of certain articles, yet you suggested that some journalists should be banned from their occupation, and yet your allies, all parties, have broken into their public building, demanding that certain resolutions be read. And their Prime Minister's candidate, some journalists called disabled with a noble simplicity, their mayor boycotted certain media, unless he's hiding in the ring of fellow Members or press staff. So the government answers the questions, and the left, judging by journalists, refuses to do so. So, if you want to do something for a fairer public opinion, first of all, you need to change that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2022-06-20-126	I accept it, and I'm very happy about it.
u2022-06-20-127	You have the floor, Congressman Imre Komjathi.
u2022-06-20-128	Bence Rétvári is a great favourite of mine. [[Defiance. Bence Rétvári: Oh, I will answer the most beautiful words! I'll get you a present.]] On a written question, my favourite answer is the fact that when you are on the Gyurcsány, I would just like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to two things: on the one hand, you have been ruling for 12 years and, on the other hand, I was not even close to politics before 2010, I was still working three shifts as a chemical expert, and as a trade union leader I was even protesting against the Gyurcsány government, if that is the case. [[Bence Rétvári: Then how did it get here? Defiance.]] However, I have always stood up for the working Hungarian people, the fallen. That's why I'm politicalizing in the MSZP right now, because that's what we're doing, unlike you. But to get to the point, we came to you on a written question, and, as I said, we didn't get a specific answer, so I'm going to ask you again. How many people lose their supply and discounts in the coming weeks, months, after the emergency that expired on June 1st? What assistance will the government provide later? Does the new emergency affect all of this? Are you planning to broaden the social network so as not to increase the number of people living in poverty? And I am also very curious to know how many people in Hungary do not have a farmhouse today. I look forward to an honoured response, a policy question and a policy answer. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-129	Thank you, Congressman Komjathi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-20-130	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your kind words. I hope it wasn't just the great panic that made you say it, but it came from the heart. [[Defiance.]] What I really don't understand is that if I protested against Ferenc Gyurcsány, you also protested against Ferenc Gyurcsány, then why are you on that side; now I completely honestly and humanly don't understand. Indeed, if you are looking for left-wing values, and you personally think that you must stand up to those people who are really vulnerable, who are often unable to get one on one, but the state needs a little help and their diligence, and then they can move forward, and they can live safe and live better than their parents, I really say with complete conviction that I would be happy to talk to you in more than two minutes' time, so that those people have been given greater security by the Fidesz-KDNP government for the last 12 years, because the left has never because of radically raising the minimum wage, which is the greatest help for small-money people, the left has never dared to hold back the fees, but allowed those people to raise them fifteen times. Yet this government was so brave and opposed to these very strong, very large and internationally terribly embedded companies, who had an interest in the media and everywhere else, and then began their struggle against the government. And yet the fact that unemployment has fallen from 11 percent to less than 4 percent shows precisely that the people you want to represent and I respect you very much, that's why many politicians really have to fight so that those who are in a difficult position get help from the state. I'd really like to talk to you about why you shouldn't do this on the left. But as far as the end of the emergency is concerned, honourable Member, during the emergency, those state offices have also been operating, and in recent months the certification procedures have been in place to obtain appropriate professional, medical and other opinions on the extension of their own social benefits. You've seen it, you've seen it, you've seen it, you've seen it, you've seen it, you've seen it, you've seen it, you've [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] when we kept the government windows open on weekends precisely so that everyone could obtain these certificates, so there is no legal barrier to those who have previously been socially entitled to some kind of care being granted this right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Imre Komjáthi has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2022-06-20-132	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, once again we have failed to find the specific answers to the specific questions, no problem, then we will talk about it, we will have the opportunity. However, I find it difficult to forget that since 2010, you have been consciously anti-union, consciously anti-worker. They have done so much, they have really raised wages, they have actually taken measures that are good for workers, I have never denied that. [[16.30]] But there's a problem with the scale, and the way they did it, it's a problem. The way the Labour Law was created is a problem; the way trade unions are dealt with is a problem. As multinational companies have been allowed to abuse and allow the strategic partners with whom you have concluded strategic partnerships to trample on Hungarian rights, see Suzuki, see Hankook and I could continue to do nothing when we spoke for them. So there's plenty more to do here. And I'm happy to be in front of the conversation. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-20-133	Thank you very much, Congressman Komjathi. You have the opportunity to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2022-06-20-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not argue that there is much to do, but that you can only believe, because you were working in the union, that we can really do so in the interests of small-time workers with a low level of interest enforcement capacity, that trade unions will fight these labour struggles instead of people. And we say that we are creating an economic situation where the worker's vulnerability creates a more balanced situation. Thank God, we've been hearing the word "staff shortage" for years, not unemployment. And you know it, and you see it, we haven't seen anything like it in the previous, say, 28 years, like what we've seen in the last two or three years, that they've been recruiting employees, and that's what the ads are for, to come work for us, because that's what you can earn. We believe that if we have created this economic situation, when we really want to catch good workers with lasso, we have done more for the well-being of vulnerable people and to respect him by his boss, because if he leaves, that person will be eliminated. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And he can't easily replace it and make more money. That's why we believed in it, and we see it at national level for small-money people. [[The president's ringing again.]] He was able to help more than the trade unions have often seen a spectacular but less effective fight.
u2022-06-20-135	Thank you very much.
u2022-06-20-136	Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-137	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, István Szabadi and Dóra Dúró, representatives of Mi Hazank, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When are you going to deal with the really important things? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask the representatives of our country, they accept the person of the response, or they ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-06-20-138	Thank you for the opportunity, but we will wait for Prime Minister.
u2022-06-20-139	Thank you very much. Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Five Orbán governments are not enough to apply for five ring games? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-06-20-140	I'll take it, thank you.
u2022-06-20-141	You have the floor, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2022-06-20-142	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Political Director, Our country launches a social debate as the strongest opposition party [[Bence Rétvári: Oops! Moore in the opposition benches. Interjection from Jobbik: Strongest in great speech!]] a long-term, profitable Olympics and paralympics. I know it hurts Jobbik, but it still does. [[Complaining from Jobbik's ranks, will the flagbearer be your predecessor?]] Even according to the measurements of the left-wing public opinion researchers, 58 percent say that Hungary would be proud to host the largest sporting event in the world, but there are two main counter-arguments that hold Hungarians back. One is the linking of corruption to investments that would also accompany the organisation of an Olympics. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement proposes that a supervisory board should be established with the involvement of opposition parties and civilians, which could monitor them from beginning to end. The other counter-argument is usually the issue of economic returns. At the same time, it should be stressed that Hungary has hosted around 25 world competitions in recent years, many facilities have already been built in these areas and that after-utilisation and infrastructure can be used for Hungarian people in the long term. But holding an Olympic is not just an economic issue, honourable Members. I have never seen 30,000 happy Hungarian children in one place in my life; and this happened when the Hungarian football team defeated England on their home field, and the Hungarian team sang the Hungarian anthem together with 30,000 Hungarian children. This is an experience for all of them that cannot be fortified. Therefore, I ask Mr. political director, under what conditions does the government support Hungary's request to host the summer Olympics and paralymies in 2036. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-20-143	I give the floor to political director Balázs Orbán in return.
u2022-06-20-144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, I can tell you that the relationship between Hungary and the Olympics and the Olympic movement is eternal, we were already there in the first summer Olympics when we could make our choice of our own free will, and we were always involved in the Olympic Games. It is well known to all of us that we are one of the most successful sports nations. Fortunately, we now feature not only in the competitions, but also in the organisation of various events, world and sports events. The Water Championship is currently taking place, and next year the world's third largest sporting event will be the World Athletics Championship in Budapest. And it is indeed true what you have indicated that, out of the ten most effective Olympic movement nations, we are the only ones who have not yet hosted the Olympic Games. And we agree that an Olympics would bring many benefits and benefits in an economic and possibly emotional, emotional sense for both Budapest and Hungary. However, the lessons learned from previous proposals are that it is only possible to apply in good time, with adequate preparation and with appropriate political consensus. Of course, there is a lot to talk about sports facilities, transport infrastructure, a lot of talk about accommodation capacities, but, as you said, and thank you for this comment, we move forward year after year in this respect, sports facilities are constantly being prepared, public transport is constantly improving, accommodation capacities are increasing. So the question is that Hungary has political unity behind this issue. I hope the answer to this question is yes. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-145	Thank you very much, political director Balázs Orbán. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2022-06-20-146	Thank you for the opportunity and for the partially meaningful answer. Our Hungarian Movement is now on the flag of the launch of social dialogue in the context of the Olympics, as we also see that this is necessary. And in recent times, the successful settlements that Hungary has been able to present, whether in the case of the World Water Championship or the third largest sporting event, in terms of winning next year's World Athletics Championship, I believe that it can put public opinion in favour of the Olympics. But to do so, it is essential that the Hungarian government also declare its intention to settle, because if the political will is not there on the part of the Hungarian government, then it is completely unnecessary to start the dialogue at all. That is why I ask the political director what conditions the government can support Hungary's bid to host the summer Olympics and paralymies in 2036. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-20-147	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. The political director is entitled to a rebuttal answer.
u2022-06-20-148	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The debate is probably not between us, but we should turn to those on your left. There has been a moment of time in Hungary, and this moment of time has lasted for many years, when there was consensus in Hungarian political life that Hungary should apply for the Olympics. I believe that this political consensus has obviously failed from a short-term political calculation over the past few years, and all of this has become a Hungarian victim and Hungary has also been condemned, which is my view. Our most important task is to restore political consensus if the conditions for this are met. I also agree with you that this is based on a very strong social movement. I can say that this social movement will continue to be supported by the Government of Hungary. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of the ruling parties and our country.]] [[16.40]]
u2022-06-20-149	Thank you, Mr. Political Director. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai withdrew his immediate question. Therefore, Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, who wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, Why is 50 plant protection products still authorised for substitution in Hungary? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I ask Ms Rebecca Szabó to accept the person of the response or to ask the Minister for her answer personally.
u2022-06-20-150	I accept, thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-06-20-151	You have the floor, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó.
u2022-06-20-152	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I asked you a few weeks ago what you were doing to ensure that Hungarian vegetables and fruits are truly safe. I wanted to find out why 50 of the 55 harmful plant protection products proposed for withdrawal since 2011 are still in use here. It turns out from a recent study of the European Plant Protection Action Network that these residues are unfortunately found in some cases in part of the fruit and vegetables. It is true that in about half of the samples tested there was no residue, but unfortunately, the prevalence of the active substances designated for substitution, which mainly affect or potentially carcinogenic hormones, has not decreased since they were designated for substitution, but also increased during the period considered, between 2012 and 2020. At the time, Minister of State said in his reply to my question that they could not replace them because there were no suitable alternatives. I looked at it, and I don't know how it's possible that in Italy, for example, only 20 active substances are allowed from the original 55 we're talking about. Then, in other Member States with significant agricultural exports, such as the Netherlands, Spain, France, Germany, there are only 40 or less authorised active substances. But let's come closer. In Slovakia, only 37 out of 55 are used, 35 in Austria, 40 in the Czech Republic and 30 in Slovenia. So as long as 50 potentially harmful active substances are allowed in our country, much less in these countries. Looks like we're behind schedule. I am interested in how this difference is possible in your view, and in order to explore the possibilities for the release of candidate pesticides, you are planning to learn about and take over the good experiences in other countries that allow us to use far fewer of these potentially hazardous pesticides, which will remain in vegetables and fruits. Thank you.
u2022-06-20-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-06-20-154	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I understand your series of questions, which I believe you asked two weeks ago. But I would like to emphasise once again: let's not start a rumor, and stop trying to paint the Hungarian fruit and vegetable sector in such a way as to show consumers what fantastic pesticide residues there are in vegetables and fruit, because that is not true! We've got our tests on him. However, allow me to make a few clarifications. What the congresswoman has described as harmful substances, they are referred to as substitutional active substances. I would like to point out that, at present, there are not fifty, but slightly fewer, 46 candidates for substitution in the approved plant protection products in Hungary. These substances are included in the list of pesticide active substances approved in the Union, i.e. they meet the strict authorisation criteria, and preparations containing these active substances may be authorised legally in the Member States. I would like to reassure the Member that products of plant and animal origin where pesticide residues can be detected but do not exceed the residue limit provided for in the EU Regulation are safe for consumers. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: But it is in them!]] You're in everything, and I'm just gonna remember that, my dear friends. And on the government's side, food monitoring is guaranteed. In 2021, NÉBIH found pesticide residues above the limit in 19 as a percentage of the 2849 samples tested, but only 6 of them were produced by Hungarian producers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó.
u2022-06-20-156	Thank you very much. I am pleased that, compared to the previous answer, we have now been able to look further into the specifics, and thank you very much to Mr Secretary of State for indicating that there are only 46 more of these active substances. But as I mentioned, Austria and Slovenia are only 30, so there is still room for progress. And it's not the fruit and vegetable growers, it's the Agricultural Ministry that needs to take further steps. I wouldn't put this on the farmers, because you can make sure which active substances are authorised or recalled. And I would like to point out that these active substances are potentially carcinogenic, mutagenic, can affect fertility, damage to the hormonal system, and the combined effect of individual residues is not known at all. So there's a health risk in these. I think it is in the common interest of all Hungarians that there should be no such residue in vegetables and fruits. And I would like Hungarian vegetables and fruits to be really healthy and safe, and if the Agricultural Ministry would give farmers the right help to indicate what products, which substances can replace those that are dangerous. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-06-20-157	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State also has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2022-06-20-158	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that those who have already done agricultural activities have practiced, used and at the same time consumed the products, they think a little differently, and know very well that certain substances, active substances can be replaced in very few cases, as we know today, and in knowledge of the use of technologies. Those substances are not yet developed, and the active substances are not yet evaluated to the extent that is absolutely necessary. I am sure that I would like to reassure you that the amount of these active substances will continue to decrease in Hungary, too, that is not a question. This is what we are trying to do, but we can't meet every single condition, and those comparisons are always difficult to see in what culture or activity they are used for, because it generally seems terrifying, but believe me, in practice it is not. We are about to eat products with pesticide use as healthier, safer, as possible, in a better quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár and Lóránt Keresztes, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will the government act? It's an address. Due to his absence, Prime Minister Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask Mr Péter Ungár to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-06-20-160	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2022-06-20-161	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the next hour of the third question. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question: "Where is the wind blowing? It's an address. Due to the absence of the Minister, Minister Zsófia Koncz asked for a reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-06-20-162	I'll take it, thank you.
u2022-06-20-163	Then you have the floor, Congressman Matthew the Great.
u2022-06-20-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a very simple question about atmospheric phenomena in the modern age name, which concerns meteorology, in particular atmospheric physics, which is not too complicated, that the wind blows in Hungary. If it blows, where it blows, and when it blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, blows, If it blows, then we, too, think that we, the green ones, could harness the power of this wind, and if it is possible to use its power, then we should allow the installation of wind turbines and wind power plants in Hungary, because, according to the regulations in force, they have been virtually banned in Hungary since 2016. This is completely incomprehensible when we are in the middle of a European energy crisis, it is completely incomprehensible when the climate crisis has kicked the door at us, it is completely incomprehensible when it is necessary to get rid of hydrocarbon dependence, all its forms, and it is completely incomprehensible when, unfortunately, 10-15 thousand people in Hungary die because of a disease caused by air pollution. [[16.50]] The LMP has a current proposal, which we have submitted, which concerns the lifting of the ban on the installation of wind power plants and the re-installing of wind power plants and wind turbines in Hungary. If the neighbouring countries succeed, Austria, but also Serbia, then I ask why they should not succeed in Hungary. I am forced to think that, for some reason, they think that the wind is not blowing in Hungary, because they are banned. But as regards our proposal, I ask that you have revised your position, that you acknowledge that the wind is blowing in Hungary, that you support the LMP proposal. Thank you in advance, Madam Secretary, for your reply. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-06-20-165	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-06-20-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I thank you very much for your concern for the issue of renewable energy sources, and I fully agree with that, and the government is also committed to renewable energy production and use. We have already said this several times that Hungary has recorded among the first to become a climate neutral country by 2050, and it is also important to point out that CO2 emissions per capita in Hungary are already the sixth best value in the European Union. Hungary's climate protection and energy independence efforts focus on clean, smart, affordable energy, solar energy, biogenic energy and geothermal and thermal energy are the most important in the area of renewable energy, taking into account our geographical characteristics. The question concerns wind energy. For years there has been a professional debate on wind power plants in Hungary. One thing we can say for sure is that in the case of renewable energy sources, Hungarian natural conditions are more favourable in the field of solar energy, and therefore we have set out very ambitious plans to multiply the capacity of solar power plants by 2030. We are doing very well on this, as we already have 3,000 megawatts of capacity. The use of solar power plants is justified and appropriate, which is why I consider it very important that the development of the electricity grid is also a key issue and, of course, the flexibility of the system. In terms of technological development and cost reduction, we expect greater future progress through the use of solar energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-167	Thank you very much, Mrs Zsófia Koncz. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy has the right to a rejoinder.
u2022-06-20-168	Thank you very much. I don't want to wait until 2050 for my part, I'll be 64 years old, but I don't think anyone else would like to, but we should make this transition much sooner. It is also good to mention these professional debates. Recently, the Eötvös Eötvös Loránd University research team researched it, and scientifically demonstrated that wind is not only blowing throughout Hungary, but it is economically possible to operate wind turbines almost everywhere. By the way, the wind is blowing at a height of 100 meters, until these wind turbines are now up, at a speed of 7-8 meters/second, the wind is practically constant, so they could be run very economically. And what he mentions is solar energy: solar energy and wind energy go hand in hand; let's say, when the sun doesn't shine, wind blows, or when the wind doesn't blow, the sun shines. Both should be supported equally strongly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of LMP, Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-20-169	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2022-06-20-170	Thank you very much for your very exhaustive professional response. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: He is large, he is large!]] Yeah. In 2050, I'll only be 60 years old, and I've determined that in any way. [[On the sign of Péter Ungár:]] Yeah, there's something else between us. [[Defiance.]] It's very important to make that clear. In addition, I say that the position of the profession on this issue is of particular importance. As I mentioned, it is very important to highlight the HUF 103 billion development of the electricity network in relation to renewable energy sources, and last week it was also found that the European Commission supported the further development of the network by HUF 23 billion with storage capacity. I think that this must be taken into account, because we are very much counting on renewable energy sources in the future, and in this I very much ask the Member for his support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-171	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Halász, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. This is how the left is tricked again! It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Mr János Halász, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-06-20-172	Thank you very much, I accept the Secretary of State as a responder.
u2022-06-20-173	Then you have the floor, Congressman János Halász.
u2022-06-20-174	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Since the 3rd of April elections, we know that the Hungarian people have not asked for the roll-over of the left and have once again given the Fidesz-KDNP government the authority to continue the government. They were not so much in favour of counterintelligence as compared to 2018, the left lost 800,000 voters in total. At the same time, after such a bad left-wing election result, it is an important question of what support opposition factions receive from the budget. The interesting situation was that the left, although entering the National Assembly on a list, formed six factions through its division, so in this cycle they would receive approximately HUF 3 billion more fractional support than in the previous four years. I stress once again: today, the left has fewer representatives in the legislation than before. It appears that starting with a common list was not only a tactic aimed at maximizing votes, but it also proved to be a financially profitable investment. Thus, while a left-wing representative spent 3.1 million forints a month in the previous cycle, this would now increase to 4.6 million after the left-wing trick. It is morally unacceptable that, following the fall of April 3, the left divides itself into smaller groups simply for financial reasons. As a result, the generous gesture by DK led by Gyurcsány also made sense that a list of representatives had offered a mandate for LMP to form an independent faction. Money, desire for power, trickery, threats that marked the left over the last few years, so it's no coincidence that the voters didn't ask for them. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, after such an election result, the budgetary trick of the left could be accepted in such a situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-175	Thank you, Congressman János Halász. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2022-06-20-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Under the current rules, 25 percent of the amount which can be used to support the parties should be distributed equally to the parties on the national list in the National Assembly. The remaining 75 percent of the amount will be allocated to the parties on the basis of the results of the parliamentary elections in proportion to the votes cast on the party or on the candidates of the party. What does that mean in practice? While in the previous term a pro-government representative received approximately HUF 2.2 million per month, a left-wing representative cost the taxpayers HUF 3.1 million. [[Dr. László György Lukács: How much did György Simonka cost the taxpayers? Dr. Brenner Koloman: Flórian Farkas, how much did it cost?]] After this year's elections, a left-wing politician will already cost taxpayers HUF 4.5 million a month after the six-fraction formation set up by the opposition, so we are talking about monthly amounts. Honourable Congressman, Of course, the review of the group support system or the review of the party support system is not a matter for the government. The Government considers these rules to be internal matters of the Parliament, but I fully agree that in such a situation, in such a war economic crisis, the entire Parliament, the entire political system, must consider allowing the trick you have shown, and that taxpayers really have that kind of money for this trick. Please accept my answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.00]]
u2022-06-20-177	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congressman Fisherman.
u2022-06-20-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This situation is untenable [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] also in relation to the savings resulting from the prolonged war situation, what he said, but morally in particular. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You accepted Orbán's raise last week! Savings!]] The Hungarian people, as I said, decided on 3 April not to ask for the left, but Gyurcsány's faction-making efforts would damage the budget by billions of HUF. [[Dr. László György Lukács: It's too bad you and Volner didn't discuss the amendment sooner, we'd be over it!]] We can't let that happen, we won't let that happen, we have to close and close the loopholes before the factions play with state aid. If the support of some political parties falls steeply, as we have seen on the left [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: KDNP zero percent!]] then they can't increase their state aid by billions. The Fidesz faction will therefore submit its legislative proposals on this issue to this House tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-179	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves Secretary of State Répássy.
u2022-06-20-180	Thank you very much. I would just like to give this House some information. In the May 31 issue of the Hungarian Gazette, more specifically in the Official Notice, a financial report of the left-wing parties was published in 2021. Allow me to give you a little summary of this. Of the parliamentary factions, MSZP received 776 million and Jobbik received more than 681 million forints; LMP received 355 million forints in 2021; while Dialogue received a total of 336 million; Momentum increased by 262 million forints. Please consider these numbers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr.Zsófia Koncz has authorised the Secretary of State to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for an answer in person.
u2022-06-20-182	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2022-06-20-183	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2022-06-20-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the Russian-Ukrainian war in its fourth month and the political and economic impact of sanctions in Brussels aimed at punishing Russia, but actually causing more harm to European countries, are responsible for the brutal rise in prices. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Unfortunately, we cannot exclude Hungary entirely from these effects, but the government has the opportunity to reduce the burden on consumers by different means, and the Hungarian Government will do so. The Hungarian government stands up for the people, and it does not like Brussels or the left, that is to say, they do not like the fact that our country is controlled by a government in the person of the fifth Orbán government, in which time it recognized the dangers and raised a screen over the Hungarians that gives security against the drastic increase in energy prices, and even by establishing the Rezsédégédő Fund, it did this positive direction for the future in the midst of the bad looks of Brussels and the Hungarian left. It is a matter of world view and talent who responds to the situation and how. Allow me to mention Péter Márki-Zay, in the political credo of the left-wing Prime Minister's candidate, he suggested that we use less water, less electricity and less gas. Frans Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission, recommended that we turn off the heating at home, shower for a shorter time, instead of washing, air our clothes. The narratives of Brussels and the Hungarian left, ladies and gentlemen, are dangerous, because they create the false impression that they are bringing us closer to peace, but they are not bringing us closer to ending the war, they are only launching an attack on the daily lives of Europeans. On the basis of this, I ask the Secretary of State, there is a risk of a reduction in the rent. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's position is clear from the start, because we reject any proposal that would have the Hungarian people pay the price of the war, and that is why I sadly listened to the deputy mayor's radio interview in which she practically linked the issue of peace with our rethinking our domestic heating, cooling and cooking habits. We do not support any such proposal. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] The government has been commissioned by the Hungarian people to face the interests of the Hungarian people in the years ahead and to defend them against the new crises and uncertainty. The government's regulatory measures introduced since 2013 still do not allow free European electricity and gas prices to appear in domestic retail tariffs. As a result of this reduction, people managed to hold around HUF 2600 billion by the end of August 2021. That is why I think it is a very important announcement that last week the Prime Minister announced that the food and petrol stop will be extended until 1 October and the credit moratorium and the interest stop until 31 December. The sanctions in Brussels have contributed to a record high inflation across Europe, and the introduction of the gas embargo would put Europe as a whole in jeopardy, which would be very detrimental not only to the Hungarian economy but also to the entire European economy. The position of the Hungarian Government remains clear: the unity of the EU is important, but we can only support decisions and sanctions that do not hurt Hungary and Europe more than the one they want to sanction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-187	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, in return. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-188	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. It can be seen that the policy of the left is nothing more than to put the reins between the horses and pull the belt. Brussels and the Hungarian Left want citizens to pay for the war. Thank you for the Hungarian Government for taking all the necessary measures to ensure that our country's energy security is maintained along with the result of the reduction of the rent. Thank you again. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-190	Honourable Congressman, There has been a significant increase in inflation in Europe and overseas as a result of the war, and we do not know how long this period will last. As long as the government protects the interests of Hungarian families, we will not allow them to pay the burden of the crisis, and it must be made clear to everyone that a faulty sanctions policy cannot be a solution. Since we are talking about war inflation, peace can be the only solution to curbing inflation. The government will continue to protect the reduction of overhead and will not give rise to any pressure, which would jeopardise Hungary's energy security and affordable energy for the Hungarian people. We protect the Hungarian economy, protect Hungarian people and their livelihood. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-191	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Economic Development an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy gave the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2022-06-20-192	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-06-20-193	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-20-194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, allow me to read you three forints: HUF 20.5 billion, HUF 36.5 billion, HUF 17.5 billion. Secretary of State, these three astronomical amounts are the profits of Lőrinc Me-száros, István Garancsi and László Szíjj, so the profits of the three perhaps largest oligarchs of the NER and of the construction companies that belong to their interests from last year, I repeat, this is not the income, but the profits and profits of these groups. [[17.10]] Strangely enough, these companies do not have to pay into the Rehabilitation Fund or the Defence Fund. Obviously, it's just some sort of fatal accident, especially in the light of the fact that your minister, about two weeks ago at the government briefing, said that with an extra profit tax, they were hunting for reasonable amounts. I don't suppose these tens of billions I've listed aren't to be subject to reasonable sums, so the extra pro. But it is more than likely that by a similar involuntary administrative error, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law's property investment company, producing a profit of HUF 12 billion, or the mining company of the Prime Minister's father, which paid only HUF 1.8 billion in dividends last year. If I were to ask you, Győző Orbán or István Tiborcz would obviously be among the first to pay and participate in this joint responsibility. Secretary of State, if you are serious for one second about the fact that the special taxes are actually about maintaining the Rezsivédelmi and Defence Fund and not about the brutal austerity of the Hungarian people, you can now announce in your response how you expect extra profit from these people. If you don't do that, I'm gonna have to ask you why we're back on track for companies close to you. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-195	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-20-196	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government's most important goal is to preserve Hungary's peace, security, protect families [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Whose family?]] , pensions from the energy crisis which is worsening due to war and sanctions in Brussels, and not least from high inflation. The government has set up a Security and Defence Fund for which special taxes must be paid by sectors that have acquired extra profit in recent years. The aim of the funds is to protect the Hungarian population from drastically rising energy prices and to continue the development of forces to strengthen the country's security. As you may know, we have created the Rezségvédelmi Fund with HUF 700 billion, the Hungarian Defence Fund with HUF 200 billion, and we want to ensure their revenue, coverage and source from the payment of the extra-profit specialists mentioned by you. The special tax has to be paid by banks, insurance companies, wholesale chains, energy and retail companies, telecommunications companies, airlines and drug dealers under the current rules. It's just that the government doesn't pay taxes where there's extra profit, where there's no extra profit, and there's not gonna be any new extra profit. This will enable us to fill the funds without compromising the growth of the economy. We have reviewed all sectors, and we have moved from the largest sector to the smaller sector, and, as you said, so that we can collect reasonable sums. [[Kálmán Olga: Casinos?]] It is not about what has been produced in a sector, it is about how big it has been produced, because you know that this is the way to fill the foundations. The eight sectors mentioned are where most of the extra profit was produced, so we can take part of the extra profit from here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-197	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-06-20-198	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, then these tens of billions of dollars are not enough to tax this; that is what you are saying in your reply, Mr Secretary of State. Or if I take out the other saying that you protect families from spending, then the Butcher and the Orbán family and all the rest will be protected from unnecessary expenses and from having to pay an extra profit tax. Mr. Secretary. The special tax in its present form means nothing more than a simple, but tougher austerity than what people pay. Many companies have already announced that this will be passed on to citizens. Here, casinos operating as your playground, for example, making billion-dollar profits, somehow don't get into this pay-per-view. I know that's how you work. I was hoping that in your reply, you might explain why you're making a difference. Actually, we're not surprised that they're not different. They continue to make Hungarian citizens pay for the consequences of their harmful economic policies, so be ashamed of yourself! Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-199	Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. [[Interventions from opposition parties: Rejoice!]] I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry. [[Mr. Novak intervenes. Dr. János Fónagy: I should be ashamed of myself.]] Excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-20-200	Honourable Congressman, Moreover, the government is constantly monitoring that the companies concerned pass on the burden, the extra-profit tax to consumers, and, as the airline could see, we immediately initiated the appropriate procedure against the renegade airline or airlines. By the way, the largest extra-profit company is the banks benefiting from the economic consequences of the war for a profit that is not backed by any additional performance or surplus product and that MOL has to be paid a high profit from the increase in oil prices. With rising interest rates and prices, banks and multi-enterprises have gained significant extra benefits for which they have not worked, and these additional amounts should therefore be included in the burden-sharing. Where there is production and production behind this, we have not imposed the taxes you have raised. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-201	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and for his understanding. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the debate on immediate questions, and now we are moving on to the discussion of questions. Zoltán Komáromi, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-06-20-202	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Hungarian health care is in an unprecedented crisis. I would like to highlight one of the most important of the many serious problems: the lack of general practitioners. According to the OKFŐ and the financier's statement of 1 June, there are 672 unfilled GP practices in the country, and this means that there are whole regions and districts, where there are hardly any general practitioners who can provide direct help if there is a problem. There's no one to do the basic exams, the care, no one to decide on a possible clinic consult or hospital referral, and no one to prescribe the medicine if there's a deficiency, let's say, a change of medication for the patient. According to statistics, the number of unfilled practices is rising sharply. In January 2019 there were 408, one year later 469, last January 583 and this year in January 643 such practices. Now it's 672, and if we do this, we'll reach 700 in January or February 1. Secretary of State, the situation is disappointing and dramatic, the statistical curve is rising. In advance, I would like to ask you not to take the turn in your response to the fact that the Gyurcsány government and what it was in the last decade, because exactly in 2006 there were 158 empty GP practices, the number of people who were unattended was 162 thousand. Now there are 887 thousand in 672. I'd like to ask you how the Ministry will handle this problem. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-203	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think there is a consensus that one of the most important things in health care is to strengthen basic care, to provide the highest possible funding for GPs. When we started our government, we inherited a situation in which Hungary spent 79 billion HUF on this. [[17.20]] This year we will use HUF 245 billion for the same purpose, not 79, but 245. At the time, the average income of a GP practice was HUF 867 thousand, and now the average income of a GP practice increased from HUF 2 million to HUF 922,000; so from 876 thousand to nearly HUF 3 million. We have also launched a competition for establishment and practice; a practice contest for the fact that the state has essentially paid the full cost of purchasing the practice. This was used by 422 people, which is more than 2 billion forints. We also launched a settlement application, which was used by more than 478 people. Here, we have provided a large enough tens of millions of measurable support to a GP to provide a permanently unfilled area. There is no district that they would not provide, since every Hungarian person has a home doctor with their own home doctor or replacement, but these practice contests have helped us to provide general medical care to hundreds of thousands of people. We have launched a Community Praxis proposal, which, I believe, is one of the most forward-looking forms of supply for the future. That is why it is also important for us to strengthen basic care and to further develop this new Community practice, so that as many people as possible can receive as many benefits as possible in basic care. As you have seen, in recent years, if there was a need for additional resources, the state did not fail with surplus resources, but provided all the additional resources in the basic supply. This is how we knew, as I told you before, to increase the Hungarian budget for basic care to a total of three times higher. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-205	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry: - Will the Fidesz government support the energy security of Hungarian citizens? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-206	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The energy security of Hungarian citizens is an outstanding national policy goal; we certainly agree on that. We in the Sopron region, but even in the entire Kisaland, know exactly where the wind blows: from the northwest direction and constantly. It is no coincidence that there are an enormous number of wind farms within a few miles of the western border. The Fidesz government in 2011 made it virtually impossible for new wind power plants to be established in Hungary by means of a regulation amendment. I would like to mention the whole energy mix here a little bit, because there is not only the solar energy that is actually supported by the Fidesz government, but also wind energy. I would also like to point out here that there are already very modern and new innovative methods of storing energy, so that, for example, the energy produced by wind power plants could then be stored with kinetic energy and the rest. So I think that this lack of wind energy is not an argument, but rather, on the contrary, and I have not yet talked about fusion energy, which is highly supported by the European Union, or geothermal energy. Here in the Carpathian Basin is this treasure under our feet. To these, I ask the Secretary of State when the Fidesz government finally intends to place appropriate emphasis, because this would be extremely important. Then the last part of the energy mix goes to Paks II. As the right-hand central-conservative party of our better country, we do not think it would be a pity to have Paks II built with the Russians because of the Russian fuel, because it would be a waste for the next 80 years with the Russian fuel, because it is the only one that can be used in nuclear power plants with Russian technology. Here Western technology should be preferred in order to truly create the energy security of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-20-207	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz, please.
u2022-06-20-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, No one has ever done more than this government in terms of energy security and energy diversification. After all, in 2010, when we took over the government, we were connected to only one country outside Ukraine, and today we have built interconnectors with six countries. In addition, the Krki LNG terminal is also responsible for very significant capacities in Hungary. I would also like to highlight what is particularly important now is that Hungary also has a strategic gas storage facility. In addition, renewable energy sources have been mentioned again. As I have already said today, our natural potential in solar energy is more favourable than in wind energy, which is why we have set very ambitious targets in this regard, and besides nuclear energy, the inclusion of renewable energy is also very necessary to ensure that 90 percent of electricity is free of carbon emissions by 2030. What's amazing is that over the past five years, solar, napalem capacity has practically increased tenfold. We now have 3,000 megawatts of capacity. By 2021, 26 percent of the electricity produced came from renewable sources. As I have already mentioned today, the development of the electricity grid is very important, therefore the 103 billion HUF programme is of particular importance for development, and the European Commission's support for the development of storage facilities is HUF 23 billion. Of this, 500 megawatts of electricity storage capacity may be increased. I ask the Member to support our ideas in these objectives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-209	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. What do you intend to do with double-expanded drugs due to government decision? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-20-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A Hungarian mother approached me recently about a health problem. She told me that you should take the 200 mg tablet regularly because of your current illness. Therefore, he had to pay HUF 3500 a month earlier, but recently he was informed that the drug had been removed from the drugs funded by the social security system, which resulted in the price of the medicine rising to HUF 7200. Despite a long search by his pharmacist or his home doctor, he couldn't offer me a drug that would be a cheaper, state-supported alternative to Normix in the specific situation. So the person asking for me can do nothing but buy more than double-expensive medication unless you want your problem to get serious. In view of the above, what is the reason why the 200 milligram Normix film-coated tablet cannot be bought with social security support by the lady who requested me? When will the 200 mg film-coated tablet be returned to your TB support, or when will an appropriate substitute medicine be taken instead of Normix? I mean, what do you advise a patient who wants me to buy his meds for twice as much? How can you get support for the price of your medicine? Thank you for your reply.
u2022-06-20-211	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we are faced with a strange case, since by 31 December 2021, Goodwill Pharma Kft. is the distributor himself. You have removed Normix 200 mg film-coated tablets from the list of supported products. This was done without prior consultation, which is why he was removed from the social security support circle, not because the NEAK decided to do so, or any government decision, but because the distributor himself took this product off the list. Therefore, the National Health Insurance Fund Manager has started to negotiate with them and has initiated negotiations with the distributor to get the product back on the list of supporters, but of course, if the distributor does not request this, NEAS cannot initiate a product to be on a supported list. But the NEAK did what it could to get everyone to this product at exactly the lower price, but it was the distributor's decision, which is preventing it for the time being. It is obviously important for us to increase the domestic pharmaceutical industry as much as possible, to produce as many products locally as possible to be another medicine containing the same active substance, especially in this situation, when we see that it is now more difficult to bring medicines or anything from another country in the world; well, to have domestic production at this time. And it is also important for our IT systems to be as advanced as possible, for drug master books to be included in the IT system, and for this reason to provide even more rapid and transparent assistance. We can trust or hope that the negotiations between NEAK and the distributor will result in results and that the distributor will ask again for social security support. There is no NEAK barrier to getting it back, and those who have previously triggered it will receive it again at a discounted price. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17 .30]]
u2022-06-20-213	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Prime Minister a question: why have NATO Battle Groups been allowed to deploy to Hungary as a whole? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky, Minister for Defence, who is competent according to the subject, to answer the question at the request of the Minister, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the government resolution of 14 June, the deployment of foreign NATO combat groups in the entire territory of our country is now permitted as a response to the Ukrainian war. Giving up Hungary's independence, making Hungary an area of military marching is unacceptable, so Mi Hazank Movement demands free and neutral Hungary. Foreign forces have no place in our country, Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Unfortunately, today only the Hungarian Movement represents the demands of young people from the parties in March 1848: don't take our Hungarian soldiers abroad, take the foreigners away from us. It is also unacceptable for the government to authorise the transfer of arms indirectly to Ukraine through Hungary. Our country also opposes this kind of participation of our country in the war. The stationing of foreign forces in Hungary and making our country a target of Russian forces have unfathomable consequences. Instead of folding the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the Hungarian government should instead prevent the Hungarians of Transcarpathia being used as a bullet catcher. Our contractual obligation from our NATO membership would only help to protect it if a Member State was attacked, but Ukraine is not a NATO member. The Hungarian Movement opposes the military support of the Soviet Ukraine, which pursues a repressive policy against the Hungarian national part of Transcarpathia, as well as the service of American interests. The embargo against the Russians has already caused invaluable damage to Hungarian agriculture mainly in recent years, and now the Hungarian interest should be the first. Why does the Hungarian government make Hungary an area of foreign military march with NATO troops temporarily stationed in Hungary? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-20-215	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Vargha will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-216	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It has already been said here several times in the Parliament, but I believe that there is no harm in repeating it: Hungary and the security and peace of the Hungarian people are the most important for the Hungarian government, and Hungary and the Hungarian people have decided not to send soldiers to Ukraine, and we do not allow arms shipments across the Hungarian-Ukrainian border. We will not allow anyone to bring Hungary into this war for any reason or purpose. At the same time, together with our European Union and NATO allies, we condemn Russia's military action, we regard Russia's military action as aggression, and we have joined the EU sanctions, which has also been said here in the House several times today, to the extent that these sanctions are not harmful and detrimental to Hungary. But, of course, here in this region, soldiers have a number of tasks: besides humanitarian activity, they ensure the protection of Hungary's borders, and NATO, as a member of NATO, can count on its allies in this task, and we can count on our allies, together with everyone, on the basis of the same principle. Every year there are domestic and international exercises, joint training, preparation and tasks in Hungary, on which soldiers from NATO countries come to Hungary. It is very important that the Hungarian Defence Forces maintain the level of NATO involvement in this situation, as Hungary's peace and security are the most important for us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-217	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "How does the government intend to deal with the food crisis? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-20-218	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Russia's aggression against Ukraine can have one of the most tangible economic effects of the increasingly threatening food crisis. A key tool for food self-determination is the strategic food reserve, which could have a price reduction effect not only as a security of supply instrument but also as a result of loose inflation. In addition to production, it is, of course, important to ensure food processing capacities here in the country. Of course, food safety means not only producing and storing a sufficient quantity of food, but we also need a good quality food, so we also need to take into account climate protection aspects, take into account landscape conditions, biodiversity, and therefore we still consider it necessary to comply with strict agri-environmental standards, so that food security is not only a good quantitative production business for large-owner oligarchs, but also a quality issue. Please inform us that, in the light of the effects that have already been felt here, prices are rising, and we are aware of the potential increase in the prices of cereals and bread and consider the 2015 government decision on the liquidation of the State's strategic food reserve to be sustainable. What steps do you plan to take to correct the government's failure at that time? Does the government intend to limit cereal exports in substance, what ideas does the government have about the interests of agri-oligarchs monopolising Hungarian food production, and the conflict between the social needs of affordable, safe food supply? And do you plan to support organic farming more than at present, which could be a basic method of safe food supply? I look forward to your reply.
u2022-06-20-219	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-20-220	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say that there is no food crisis in Hungary, and it is not expected that there will be, so these assumptions, which concern the Ukrainian-Russian war, are indeed causing trade difficulties, but they do not concern security of supply. In the absence of state food reserves in recent years, it has been proven that there is sufficient food in Hungary even in the event of damage to international logistics chains, that the supply of quantity and quality to the population is also ensured through the EU's common market, and that the country is able to produce food for people of up to 20 million people on its own initiative at any time. Reflecting on the consequences of the war next door, the government is constantly making decisions to ensure security of supply, always in the right place and with the right timing. The obligation to notify cereals exports is an effective measure, providing an up-to-date view of the market without hindering exports, but fortunately, keeping the possibility of intervention has not been necessary so far. We must manage in a time of crisis, which has not yet been the case, and therefore in our support policy they will continue to have a strong role in the future, as you have requested, as incentives for sustainability, which also serve the purpose of quality food production. The role of organic farming is outstanding, sustainable management in healthy food production and natural resources, and its development is also an important element of the Hungarian government's agricultural policy in line with EU policy objectives. I would like to stress that the area of organic farming has increased by 136 percent between 2010 and 2020 and is already over 300 000 hectares. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-221	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Bakos, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry why did Fidesz vote off the building insulation program if László Palkovics himself spoke about the need for this? It's an address. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor.
u2022-06-20-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP presented a proposal for a decision to reduce energy poverty and air pollution, the central element of which was the launch of a complex building energy and deep renovation program, since 75 percent of the buildings are outdated, with Russian gas we are heating the street, for example, instead of children's rooms. Out of HUF 300 billion a year, 100,000 apartments could be isolated, but the program would include, for example, the installation of solar panels or the modernisation of heating systems. [[17.40]] With deep renovation, the energy needs of buildings and thus the heating costs of families can be reduced by 50-85 percent, which means a real, sustainable reduction in the cost of electricity, and this is how we can get rid of the Russian energy dependency. If deep renovation of all residential buildings were to take place, the country's total natural gas consumption could be reduced by 20 percent, while creating thousands of jobs. The pro-government representatives said no to this programme last week when the Committee on Sustainable Development rejected the inclusion of our proposal for a resolution without debate. One day later, at a conference, László Palkovics stressed the strengthening of energy independence and stressed the need to improve energy efficiency in residential and public buildings and modernise the heating system for the climate neutrality set for 2050. Dear Secretary of State, At least now give a reason why the pro-government representatives voted off our proposal for the building insulation programme when László Palkovics spoke about the need for this. I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2022-06-20-223	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz, please.
u2022-06-20-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The proposal for a decision on this issue was not supported by the Committee on Sustainable Development, knowing the existing legislative frameworks and government programmes, as Hungary has prepared a national long-term renovation strategy, which sets out the deep renovation of the entire energy-related unconventional building stock by 2030. With regard to illegal waste incineration, the right legal conditions are currently in place in Hungary for public authorities to take action, and between 2014 and 2020 we spent nearly HUF 600 billion in support of energy investments, out of which more than HUF 200 billion were not developed for municipal purposes. The operational programme for territorial and urban development supported a total of 83 applications, 52 municipal and 31 ecclesiastical beneficiaries, amounting to HUF 48 billion. What is very important is that, in this period of crisis, we place particular emphasis on the protection of families, and that is why the unique home renovation programme should be highlighted. In this context, the state contributes up to HUF 3 million to the renovation of houses and apartments for families raising children, and nearly 50 percent of the total amount was spent on energy modernisation by families. In addition, the renovation loan facility can also be used, which also assists these renovations. By the way, 150,000 families have already lived with this and received support for HUF 260 billion. Families with one child can also participate in the programme, thus making the program the most widely available and showing its popularity by receiving 3,000 new applications per week. I ask you to support these measures by adopting next year's budget law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-225	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, would you like to ask the Minister for Technology and Industry a question: It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-20-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Summer is here, and fortunately, the Covid tightening is over, more and more people use electric vehicles while they spend their free time outdoors. Among these electric vehicles, many use electric scooters, electric skateboards, roller skates and various balanced means of transport. Some of these can also move very fast and move forward. It is also very dangerous, there have been a lot of incidents in recent years where either the user of the electric means of transport or anyone involved in transport has suffered from this. I think it would be worthwhile to regulate the use of these electric vehicles in the CROSS, because at the moment, the perception of these devices is controversial and is not regulated. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, with all due respect, how she plans to amend the KRESZ for these means of transport, the electrical equipment. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-227	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will answer the question, you have the floor.
u2022-06-20-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for bringing such an important issue to the Hungarian Parliament, and I fully agree with you that the ever-increasing spread and use of the vehicles in question, although it is undoubtedly beneficial, also confronts us and road users with a number of dangers. Of course, as legislators, we cannot ignore these risks, the Ministry of Technology and Industry plans to supplement domestic provisions. The basic purpose of the amendments in preparation is to create safe transport conditions for all concerned. Protecting defenceless road users, especially cyclists and pedestrians, is the government's priority; we plan to propose amendments to the KRESZ in the same package as the topic raised. The amendment will also concern the regulation of railway crossings. The primary objective is to adapt the KRESZ to the changed traffic conditions, to facilitate the transport of vulnerable road users in road traffic, to settle the conditions for the use of simple electric means of transport, i.e. motor, electric scooters, electric bicycles, and to introduce traffic rules to facilitate the spread of electromobility. A summary of these aspects and the development of e-roller regulation are ongoing, and we will also consult professional and social organisations, relevant authorities and ministries when preparing the amendment. The proposal will be submitted to the government after this process has been completed. I would like to thank the Member woman and, in general, the governing parties for their conscientious work to protect the safe transport of Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-20-229	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-20-230	Dear Secretary of State, Since 2020, we have had to deal with the corona virus epidemic, which has put the economy, health care and the entire Hungarian population to a serious test. Health care was in place and sustained, and all patients with coronal viruses could receive the best possible care. We should therefore thank healthcare workers, doctors and nurses working in Hungary, and we should thank the Hungarian population, because they have complied with the emergency rules imposed by the government. Our fight against the coronal virus epidemic has been fought, and thanks to the government's rapid and effective measures and successful vaccine procurements, we have also defeated the fifth wave. In the last two years, people have been under a lot of attack. The government has done everything in its power to assist families in difficult life situations due to the epidemic in their everyday life and in the way they can be expected to handle their affairs. Dear Secretary of State, The left constantly destroyed the Hungarian people's belief in disease management, campaigned against Eastern vaccines, while most of them were vaccinated with Chinese vaccines. During the control of the coronal virus epidemic, it became clear that the left focused on its own political goals rather than on the rapid elimination of the community's cooperation and epidemic. Thank you for the government's actions, which have helped and helped citizens' everyday lives. Dear Secretary of State, The documents issued by the Hungarian authorities, which expired during the emergency period of the corona virus epidemic, were extended by the government until 30 June 2022, but, as far as I know, there are still around 1.2 million expired documents, which have not been renewed so far. [[17.50]] That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State what measures the Government is helping citizens to renew their documents. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-20-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in the ranks of Parliament, DK also has people who did not help but hinder protection. [[Kálmán Olga: Who?]] But thank God, this was not the case for Hungarian society. Most of the Hungarian society, as far as possible, helped health services and services and saved people. In fact, a lot of decisions had to be made, such as the government extended their expiry dates in relation to the validity of outgoing personal documents, precisely in order to avoid personal contacts as much as possible during the various waves of the epidemic, but it was also possible during this period that, even if there was no personal contact, the customer services served, let's say by electronic means. However, despite all this, there has been a very large backlog, as in 2020 4 million fewer customers came to government windows than in 2019 and 3 million fewer customers in 2021, which is a huge number. As a result, it is completely understandable that many documents have expired and many have not been able to renew them. Therefore, with the end of the emergency, the government decided to extend the expired IDs, driving licences and passports until 30 June of this year, and not only to give us the opportunity, but also to assist in the past period, and I thank you very much for the work of government window workers, that from the end of May until the end of June all government windows of Budapest and Pest County were open for five weeks, as well as 120 other designated government windows in the countryside. They were able to bring in a lot of disadvantages. By opening up capacities, we have provided citizens with the opportunity to exchange their personal documents that have expired during an emergency. To conclude, I would add that the person whose driver's license has expired can still do so, and the good news is that it can be extended. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] online via hungarian.hu, and for this you need nothing more than the medical fitness results issued by the general physician. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-233	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why don't you take teachers seriously?" It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-20-234	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Last week, one of the most difficult academic years of teachers ended, which in administrative background is still until early July, but no effective lessons are available. This academic year and the hopeless situation of teachers were assessed by the end of the year event of the Teachers' Union, to which the Minister for Education was invited, but he did not consider one of the largest teachers' union worthy to attend the event. You should have heard about the amazing government repression, the counterwinds of teachers, teachers, educators in the school year 2021/22. Before the beginning of last year's school year, children's teachers were humiliated in summer camps, so that a few weeks later the following slap could come: Viktor Orbán's announcement of the non-reimbursement of the promised teacher's wage increase. And the next attack had to wait until March this year, when your government made it impossible and then threatened educators on strike in almost every part of the country. And a few days ago, the foam arrived on the cake, because they turned to the teachers in an online questionnaire, where they didn't say a word about salaries, the livelihood of teachers, the housing conditions of teachers, how many teachers have to take second and third jobs in addition. If a young person today decides to choose to be a teacher, then he will surely face financial problems. But you don't want to raise the salary of teachers, but you don't want to listen to underpaid teachers. Mr Secretary of State, Mr President, and I can say that, Minister, because the question is to him: why are Hungarian teachers not taken seriously for at least one afternoon? Why didn't the Minister attend the final event of the Teachers' Union after he was responsible for public education in Viktor Orbán's government? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for an answer. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-20-235	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Your speech is typically a speech of which every part of the first to the last letter can be disproved, perhaps not even two minutes. It's your performance and our performance if you compare it to the teachers. You, Ferenc Gyurcsány, took one month's wages from the Hungarian teachers and dismissed 15,000 teachers. This is the moral high ground from which you talk about education, about Hungarian schools. You are the largest school lockers in Hungary; you are the largest teachers' gussels in Hungary; you are the largest teachers' wage reducers, and you are the only teachers' wage reducers in Hungary. We will start from here, honourable Member. In 2010, the first major social group to which we raised our wages was the teachers, 50 percent, because we believe that their work should be appreciated. The future depends on them, the Hungarian families leave their children to the teachers. That's why we have to acknowledge their work, and that's why they were the first to receive a wage increase. And during the coronal virus epidemic, we didn't do what you did. You said that when there was an economic crisis, everyone had to pull their belts in and take a month's wages from teachers. We didn't do that. We raised the wages of teachers twice by 10 percent. [[Andrea Hegedüs intervenes.]] In addition, we also had an ongoing discussion with the teachers' unions and the National Teachers' Faculty. If you'd listened to the news a little bit, because I think you're watching it, but your hearing is selective, then you should have heard that Minister was negotiating with the National Teachers' Faculty, and Mr Maruzsa was also negotiating with the teachers' union. What I do not understand is why you criticize why you are attacking Hungarian teachers and Hungarian teachers to really ask them how they would feel more modern and more efficient the Hungarian school system and the Hungarian education system. We sent out a questionnaire on this because, based on their answers, we would like to launch the legislative process of the coming months, years. We started by sitting down with the Teacher's Faculty and the unions and giving all the teachers the opportunity to give their opinion. I think it's an optimal and good start in a cycle. I'm sorry you're attacking this as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-237	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. What developments will be made at the model-shifting University of Pannonia, what projects will be launched in the next period? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-20-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The University of Pannonia will continue to operate as a foundation from 1 September 2021. At the university, people with significant professional, business leaders and political experience who can enrich existing academic knowledge work in the Curatorium of the University of Pannonia Foundation. The task of the five-member body is to focus on the institution's long-term objectives, to promote its continuous development, and to create the conditions for modern and competitive training and research. The three actors involved in the model change, the board as strategic director of the university and enforcer of business aspects, the Senate as the depositary of university autonomy, and the state as the owner of the long-term higher education strategy. As a result of the harmonious and constructive cooperation, students of the University of Pannonia have the opportunity to acquire modern knowledge, professional research activities in the fields of humanities, economics, technical, IT, education, social and natural sciences, as well as beyond the academic material. The scientific weight of the institution is also indicated by the five accredited doctoral schools. Research with international visibility and recognition is also successfully included in the various national and EU proposals. In addition to a high level of education, it is also essential to develop infrastructure. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mrs Secretary of State what improvements will be made at the model-shifting University of Pannonia, what projects will be launched in the next period. I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-20-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. [[18.00]]
u2022-06-20-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government is committed to making the entire system of Hungarian higher education and all its actors, including students, teachers, researchers and workers, interested in achieving results that are as successful as possible, which are worthy of recognition at international level. The government aims to give our universities a central role in R &amp; D and innovation and to further strengthen their corporate and international relations. The first results of the efforts are already visible. Instead of last year's 9th, 11 Hungarian universities are on the world's two most prestigious higher education rankings, and last year's Pannonia University modeled for both. In order to see the significance of this, the university cost the best 5 percent of the world's 28,000 higher education institutions. Honourable Congressman, You can see the results, but I think there's a way to get away. As a legacy of socialist-liberal governance, in 2010, government expenditure on public and higher education was also reduced in Hungary in a unique way from OECD countries. We have now come to the point that we are one of the Member States of the European Union that are most intensive in supporting the functioning and innovation of universities. We've never spent so much money on higher education. This is unique in the history of Hungarian education. With the nearly threefold increase in funding for this development, I think the University of Pannonia is a clear winner. In recent years and this year, we have spent more than HUF 20 billion on university development, including the development of infrastructure and skills for practice-oriented higher education courses, the development of innovative technologies to significantly reduce environmental burden, and the establishment of a sustainability competence centre based on circular economic foundations. This development aid may increase to several times over the next period, depending on the rate of successful implementation of the projects, as RRF or equivalent sources provide HUF 45.3 billion for the development of the scientific and innovation park, HUF 39 billion for the development of the national laboratory, and HUF 3.5 billion for the development of the national laboratory. All in all, I can say that we are on the right track, and go, University of Pannonia! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-241	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of the election district. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-242	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dunakeszi, Fot, Göd, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház, 5th Constituencies of Pest county, where I am the parliamentary representative is one of the fastest developing regions of the country. This is due to the fact that there are industrious people living in this region, people who know what cooperation means, what cooperation means between a local government, the state and people, a group of people, various social organizations and associations. This is why, in recent years, road development has taken place and, of course, we have plans for road development. For example, the road 2 connecting the M2 with the M3, which has already been designed, such as the development of railway line 71 or the development of the Csömör HÉV, which are all very important transport development issues, in which we would like to move on in the next period. But, of course, this is also the case in the field of education. Many educational investments have been made, and a new school has been established. For example, Szent István Dunakeszi and, for example, the Christ King School established by the Catholic Church in an old school after it was renovated, but we could also list educational developments in this area. In addition to a number of developments, of course, we also need to make sure that we also have improvements that strengthen the nature of this area and preserve its character, as we are on the Danube bank, next to the Danube. This is why it is very important that we also have green investments, investments that highlight the beauty of the area, the proximity of the Danube, that it is especially a constituency on the shore of Dunakeszi and Göd, when it is our duty to show its beauty and tourist attraction. I am pleased to tell you, fellow Members, that this is where the biggest botanical garden investment in the last 20 years of the country is being made. On the one hand, thanks to state aid, and on the other hand, thanks to Pest county aid, the Huzella Garden is renewed in Göd on about 5.5 hectares. We are talking about a garden that has a serious historical tradition. In 1846, János Arany bought this garden for his son, and later it became the property of the Huzella family, and the Huzella family made an important botanical investment, opened this garden for professionals, and continuously developed this garden into a university center. That's how this garden became the XX. One of the most important botanical and ecological research centres in the first half of the century. Later, he went to the University of Eötvös Loránd, a research centre, a university centre, and after that, after the university campus had been established, he went to the Füvészkert, to the Füvészkert (Centre) of Budapest, which we know the fate of which we know, because this garden was once more than three times as big as it is now. But having received the Huzella Garden, the Grasshopper, we can say that it could have been created almost in its original size, supplemented by this wonderful garden. 800 million forints is the investment that can take place here in the next period, from 800 million forints, which, as I said, is partly state aid and partly Pest county grant. What will happen here in the next period? It is a programme up to 2025, and in this context it can become a university centre again. With the cooperation of several universities, a research centre can be established, but this garden has now opened its doors to visitors, so now there is a garden in Göd that the Gödians could not visit at all before, but now it has become an open garden for the Danube bend, for the people living there, for the people of the area. In this area, there will be a renovation of the so-called "B" building, in which, on the one hand, the research centre will be located, as well as an employment centre, where children and families will be able to create different products from the herbs produced there, and these products can be brought home. It will also become a family centre, the roads in the area will be renewed, the water facilities will be renewed, as there are resources in this area, and there are lakes in this area, which will also be revitalized. The entire vegetation will be renewed, the buildings will be renewed and a new centre will also be created, which can actually be called a visitation centre. The school path here will develop, and the garden as a whole will develop. I would ask my fellow Members and the Hungarian Government to continue to support the development of this garden, since we are talking about one of our most important green investments. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-20-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-244	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to preserve my good habit of telling you from time to time what is happening in my constituency, Újpesten and Angyalföld, where hardworking people live, loving people who can achieve more and more results with their performance and work. Of course, this includes the fact that this can be achieved jointly in cooperation with the municipality. On the other hand, with regard to the municipalities, I can say here that, apart from your political motivation, our environment can still develop, even though in recent years revenues have been cut by nearly HUF 10 billion, which are in Újpesten and XIII. They came in this way in the district. However, it is precisely because of these circumstances that I consider it important that the intentions of the people, the efforts of the local government, appear here, within the walls of the Parliament, and in these circumstances what success can be achieved. [[18.10]] In Újpesten again this year there will be a Summer Starter plus reward programme, which has been serving the lives and opportunities of the people working here for the third year. This is a programme dreamed up by the city's management, involving 537 kindergarten workers, 202 social workers, 247 daycare workers and 64 people working in the local government's economic institutions, working there, working there, working for people, most of whom look after our children, focusing on the education, development of our children, and making our daily lives easier. We can support them each with a total of HUF 44 thousand, otherwise HUF 52 million, so that we can help and contribute to the fact that, in the context of shocking and brutal inflation, the situation will try to counter the Orbán operating restrictions. Today, a week's vacation to Balaton has become an unattainable luxury, since a week's vacation to Balaton costs at least half a million forints for a family of four, counting only the cost of accommodation, beach and meals. The one-weekly accommodation is a three-star beachfront on the shore of Lake Balaton I am talking about a four-member family with a minimum of 300 thousand forints, and the meal is 4-5 thousand forints per day, counting only beach meals. Dinner means 20-25 thousand forints for four people, and if the family adds other programs to the holiday, it will increase the cost again by thousands of forints per person. This is also the same as the cost of a holiday in Croatia, Greece, where they are faced with how the forint weakened and devalued. At the same time, I think it is important that we are able and have the opportunity to help workers who make life easier for those who live in Újpest, older people, and young people. In addition, I would like to say that these days the third and first floors of the SZTK have been renewed. In the previous week, the technical transfer and transfer took place renewed and expanded here after the Covid crisis for very important pulmonary medicine on the third floor, and on the first floor there was an extension of 60 square meters. In addition, let us not forget that as part of the second stop of the program, we have already handed over the renovation of the seventh floor of the building. Thus, these two programs together, the Summer starter plus reward, and the continuous development of the specialist, are closely linked, and the goal is the same, which is to show the security and appreciation of the diligent Newpestians; from one side, to provide financial support for our opportunities and, on the other hand, to provide an appropriate working environment for the workers here. I think you can't find a greater purpose than these. Please pay attention to what the city's leadership, in cooperation with the people, is doing. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-20-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Andrea Hegedüs, DK Group:. Miskolc deserves community transport to recover! The city wants its abstract resources back! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-06-20-246	Mr President, Dear House, Last week, I dropped off the car and drove by bus and tram to various points of the city at different times, which is the only way to talk authentically about the difficulties of public transport involving Miskolc. It was a terrible journey of experience, a negative journey of experience at peak time. I listened, I watched the travelers, and I gathered information. Waiting time for most flights is a real game of patience, but it's not a game. The pressed herring may feel in its box in a pool compared to what is seen on certain flights. Depreciation, deteriorating service standards, and growing, fully justified indignation and discontent from the Miskolcs. When tired after a shift, the night nurse wants to be at home as soon as possible to cook a cheap dinner for her husband who paid for social esteem and adrenaline rushes, or the kindergarten teacher who raised her child alone would like to rush to pick up the child from school to finally crash down to the desk to write a career-model portfolio in hopes of a better future, or after her overworked day, the student can't wait to throw his heavy school bag in the corner, but where's the next flight? The daily problems and grinding mill are accompanied by the unbearable, inevitable depression of public transport. There's a lot of people in town, and the number of people passing through is up to 1 million and 200,000 people. But what am I talking about? We have a two-thirds government of supermen, with three million people voting in trust. He also promised Canaan to Miskolc, distributed billions during the elections, believed everything: stability, peace, no march to war for the boys. Therefore, there is no impossible problem for them, so a public transport problem in Miskolc should not be an obstacle. The municipality has already done its best: negotiations, negotiations, crisis management request, and despite the support of the City Hall for MVK, the situation has not improved. However, this town had more beautiful times before 2010: it applied for the renewal of the tramway, for new trams, and 31 new trams, for more than 11 kilometres, for a total of 33 billion. The backbone of Miskolc transport is well established, and the exchange of buses has begun. In the past, there was a public agreement that additional funding was provided from the central budget to cities outside Budapest, who used their own company to solve public transport. This form of support has been removed from the budget since 2020, which is MVK Zrt. EUR 500 million per year. The previous Fidesz city administration also withheld funding from its own budget. From one day to the next, this money cannot be replaced, the city did not raise the ticket prices, it did not thin the flights, it pushed the deficit ahead, and billions were accumulated. The next day of the 2019 municipal elections, the new city leadership faced the fact that the well-acclaimed MVK was in crisis, forced to cancel flights, schedule changes, increased transport costs. Although initiatives were taken to amend the central budget, this was considered not to be eligible by the then-regulating Csöbör, Hubay fideszes, Members of Parliament in Miskolc, so from 2019 a crisis is being dealt with, which has been exacerbated by the Covid epidemic, since less use of urban transport has been made, the company's revenues have decreased, but the withdrawal of local tax revenues in Miskolc has also been a tsunami. Miskolc must get back the Community transport subsidies withheld by the government, and the law must ensure a stable future operation! Two-and-a-half billion will be returned to the city. The Democratic Coalition is therefore submitting an amendment to the budget, and I would ask for the support of three Fidesz representatives of Miskolc, Katalin Csöbör, János Kiss, Zsolt Kovács, and the cooperation of Judit Varga, Róbert Répássy, Attila Szinay, also in Miskolc. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2022-06-20-247	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, János Bencze, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address:. When will the government finally be generous with those in real need? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-20-248	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I came to Parliament with doubts, but it is a pleasure to see that not everything about two thirds is true. They can be generous, but they can help people, or at least certain people. It was a pleasure to see that they had found someone in need: seeing his distress, they helped him, they increased his wages; seeing Prime Minister's distress, he has no savings, let's say, he was thrown at 133 percent of the wage increase. [[18.20]] I would suggest to the honourable government that they look elsewhere for people in need, real people in need, people who are heroes of everyday life, who live their lives every day to think carefully about what they buy and what they don't. For example, there are those who receive the minimum pension at all times, 28 500 forints. For them, a 133 percent increase would mean life itself. 56 thousand forints, a ridiculously low sum, but still more than 28 500. Or take the people who left work, gave up their existence, and care for their sick family members for a care fee. The minimum amount of this is just over HUF 41,000. If the two thirds of them were so generous and gave them a 133 percent increase, they would have 96,000 forints a month. If we project this for a whole year, any group of you, I will still stress less, per year, than the amount you voted for to increase the Prime Minister's benefits, because that is more than 1.5 million forints. I ask you to set a good example of generosity, Christian morality, and helpfulness, and to find a way to give at least a lot more to these two groups, and to give them this 133 percent, so that they can live as genuine Christians and do good to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-20-249	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
