u2022-10-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, Again, I have a sad duty to fulfill by announcing that Imre Koltai died in the 85th year of our former colleague's life. Imre Koltai obtained a mandate in the 2nd constituency of Pest county as a candidate of the MSZP at the parliamentary elections in 1994 and was a member of the Parliament for a period of time. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on the Environment. In addition to his political career he worked in the Hungarian industry, from 1980 to 1995 he was CEO of Cement and Meeszművek, President and Managing Director of the Hungarian Cement Industry Association from 1990. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[They stand up and salute the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear House, The speeches before the agenda will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy.
u2022-10-03-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, you can't just walk past the brutal incident that happened last Friday that the VI. Several of the teachers of Kölcsey High School in the district were fired from the school district. On the part of the LMP, I would like to express my maximum solidarity and respect for teachers, especially those brave teachers who dare to raise their voice and dare to improve the quality of education so that students can receive better education. What has been a covert threat has turned into open political aggression. I consider firing and firing teachers an open political aggression. The people of power refer to a lawlessness, but if something was illegal in the past, it is the abolition of the right to strike or not the guarantee, we believe it is illegal. If something's illegal, it's not guaranteeing respect for teachers, it's low pay, it's illegal. In the same way, it is illegal to have a job situation for teachers, or, if something is illegal, perhaps the most illegal thing is that students are not provided with an equally high level of education in Hungary, which is a government responsibility. Once again, a brave and decent professional, teacher, respect and thanks would be given to anyone who raises his word against this, for the students, for the quality of education. And what I originally wanted to talk about was the government's crisis management. Orbán's announcements made in the middle of last week, when, well, we were intrigued. We've been looking forward to this announcement. We thought that, at last, there might be green policy measures that can really do something about the negative consequences of the energy crisis, which really pull us out of this energy crisis and the climate crisis, because the two are closely linked. Well, we were disappointed because Viktor Orbán only announced another national consultation. It seems that with national consultation, the national consultation on sanctions, the government is trying to combat the energy crisis. Otherwise, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán would consult on sanctions that he supported, and the Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of. Well, he seems to want to consult on these issues in hindsight, which he supported. Otherwise, the government would have had 12 years to prepare for the energy crisis and the climate crisis, but to date, the measures, green policy measures and energy investments that would have really helped Hungary to separate from the expensive Russian gas or oil in the ruble have not happened. But it seems that they continue to stick to these energy sources and continue to stick to fossil energy. We are completely opposed to this and would offer Hungary a completely opposite direction. These are genuine, sustainable, green, clean, cheap and safe green policy measures. There are, indeed, questions that should be consulted. We would rather recommend this consultation to Hungary. For example, we could consult on wind energy, which Prime Minister said last week here in Parliament that he is only one of his moderate supporters, and there is a debate on wind energy within the government anyway. I am very curious, by the way, to the opinion of the various members of the government that they support or oppose wind energy, but otherwise, if the national consultation could be consulted on wind energy for example, it would be possible to convince Prime Minister at national level that wind energy is indeed needed. However, in the same way it could be consulted not to tax the use of solar energy, it could also be consulted that building insulation programmes are needed in Hungary for comprehensive programmes, or that it could be consulted in the same way, for example, on climate leases. So once again, the consultation on sanctions cannot stop any energy crisis. What is needed is the unfortunately remaining green policy measures, such as the authorisation of wind energy. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the LMP benches.]]
u2022-10-03-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz to reply.
u2022-10-03-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As we have repeatedly said, Hungary's priority objective is to have a multi-legged and balanced energy mix. And, as Congressman pointed out in relation to wind power plants, Prime Minister, he said last week that the situation was clear: there has been a professional debate on this in Hungary for years. There are wind turbines at the moment, and it is always worth starting from existing experiences. This is what the Hungarian government does, and there are a number of unanswered questions about this: for example, the recycling of used shovels, the introduction of shovels made of materials of a different nature, the whole environmental pressure that wind turbines exert on the wildlife and the inhabitants of the area. These are all issues that need to be carefully examined. [[13.10]] However, last year, the share of the total production of solar power plants in the 27 Member States of the European Union was the highest in Hungary by 11.1 percent. The government's priority is also to ensure that Hungary has a multi-legged and balanced energy mix. We have already talked about solar energy, and in this connection we are already achieving our objectives in a very good way, since we already have 3800 megawatts of solar power. The increase in solar power generation is shown by the fact that in practically five years this capacity increased by ten and in 2021 the electricity produced by solar power plants increased by 56,54 per cent compared to the previous year. Obviously, we have often talked about the need to develop the electricity grid here, within the walls of Parliament. We also have ideas on this, and the government provides further substantial support for the development of electricity networks. At the end of the programme, the electricity supply system will receive 2 thousand megawatts more energy from renewable sources. A plan for the complete transformation of the domestic electricity system has also been mentioned. This includes, as I said, network development, but also the construction of new power plants, such as Paks II and the extension of Paks I's operating time. There is currently a war going on, and in this connection, due to the misguided sanctions, there has been a difficult energy situation throughout Europe, which must be clearly addressed, this is the priority of the Hungarian government. However, in recent times, very important decisions have been made to protect Hungarian families; for example, the construction of additional four interconnectors compared to the two, and we are practically connected in six directions from the seven neighbouring countries. This is so important in the coming winter period, which, I think, is clearly a priority issue. Congressman mentioned building insulation, energy efficiency. I would like to inform you that almost 50 percent of the home renovation programme has already been spent on energy efficiency. We also consider this a very important issue. As regards green policy, we have already said that the Hungarian government is absolutely committed to this issue, since we first stated that we want to become a climate neutral country by 2050, and it is also good news that in Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are the ninth best value among the EU Member States. We believe that we want to develop the Hungarian economy while also meeting our green policy objectives, climate policy expectations. We have accepted the climate action plan, and the congressman knows this. In this respect, very important points have been identified, such as the elimination of illegal landfills, the redemption of glass and plastic bottles and metal boxes, and from 1 July 2021 we banned disposable plastics. We also consider it important to give opportunities and space to cheap electric cars, for example, in transport. It is therefore important to point out that we have already supported the purchase of 7500 electric cars, and in the framework of the Green Bus programme in cities over 25,000 people [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] facilitate the placing on the market of electric buses. Thank you very much, and we continue to ask for such support from the LMP. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-4	I now give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, the leader of the Group of the Mi Hazan Group.
u2022-10-03-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister made it clear last week that, on the one hand, the Government does not want to accept the proposals of the Hungarian Movement, they are still not moving towards public burden-sharing, but it wants the interests of global large companies to be served by the government when we have seen in recent days how disastrous the situation is in the field of education or health. We see that many Hungarians and Hungarians are employed in the public sector for hunger wages, and we see that, for example, border hunters who risk their lives on the southern border are still firing live firearms in the middle of the day, sending them to such life-threatening jobs for a gross salary of HUF 400,000, and that the government will not be interested in teaching our children at school. We're happy to say it's not gonna be 18 degrees cold for kids to sit around all day, but obviously we're gonna need teachers in those classrooms. So the problem is very big, there are a lot of problems to be solved, compared with which the government continues to refrain from any proposal that leads to public burdens. When we asked the government at the beginning of the summer to reduce, for example, the system usage charge in the case of bills, or to release it in this catastrophic situation, or to ask for the same in relation to the VAT on bills and energy bills, we did not receive a meaningful reply. It is not a valid answer that the profits of the also state-owned, state-owned companies must be guaranteed from these revenues, as we are asking the state to bear burdens instead of Hungarians, Hungarian workers or even Hungarian pensioners. The State will not do so, even though we have made a number of concrete proposals on where public revenue could be increased. There are those global corporations that, for some reason, are still on the palm of the hand of the government, despite any conflicting communication. It was very symbolic that, while we were discussing this issue here in Parliament with Prime Minister, at the same time Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, said that Audi Hungaria Zrt. It has expanded again, in this case the production of tools, and this 3.8 billion HUF expansion has been implemented by one of the world's global corporations in Hungary by giving 1.2 billion HUF of Hungarian taxpayers' money to do so again by the government. So we continue to see that the government, in this critical, very difficult situation, does not want to help teachers or border hunters or not the police, not the public sector, but, let's say, the Audit. Don't get me wrong, before I get the answer to how much jobs Audi creates, let me add that on the one hand, I am not saying that Audi should leave Hungary, but I am asking that in this situation the government should no longer support the Audit and not other global large companies from taxpayers' money, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian SME sector, the Hungarian businesses are still the most stable employers in Hungary. Then, Prime Minister, on our suggestion that the government should levy an extraordinary tax on the oligarchs, who are about the hundred richest Hungarians, who we know precisely have something to do with either the Balliberal previous governments, the current government or, say, the Solution Movement, these billionaires, the Prime Minister replied that the assets of the citizens should be registered for this, and we obviously do not want that. [[13.20]] Compared to this, the census is now starting in Hungary, and as it turns out, this is not only a census, but the government also wants to make a thorough assessment of the assets of the Hungarian people, as they are asking questions about their apartment, their real estate assets, which we do not understand yet why they are so important. So we look forward to the answers to these questions. And I still didn't get a meaningful answer to why the government is afraid of digital tax. Are you afraid of Facebook? Why doesn't he dare do what the Austrian government does? In Austria, there is a digital tax. Facebook's income was HUF 12 000 billion, compared with HUF 3.8 billion in 2021. For 3.8 billion HUF, did Facebook buy the tax exemption? A Hungarian company would also welcome such a tax exemption. I look forward to the answers to these questions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-03-6	The possibility of reply lies with Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2022-10-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, It is not the first time he has spoken on this issue in Parliament. However, I would like to remind you that you agree with the Government on a number of issues and with the majority of Parliament, such as the rejection of the global minimum tax, which you expressed when discussing the parliamentary resolution proposal. Or they also agree that, in this difficult economic situation, the government has introduced an extra-profit tax on a number of sectors where unexpected income is generated and that the State will collect an extra tax on that income to finance politically defined objectives, such as support for the reduction of costs, support for families, the creation of jobs or the provision of the value of pensions, politically financially through the budget. As has been said, you are looking for solutions in sent-out accounts. On the other hand, I am telling you that the Hungarian Government is not to blame for the fact that there is currently such a serious economic difficulty in terms of energy prices. It is clear that the European Union has achieved this with its sanctions policy, and if we see it correctly, this is not the end of it, and its consequences for Europe as a whole are inaccessible. The Hungarian government, on the other hand, provides support for overhead accounts at pre-crisis prices until average consumption. With this, he is entirely alone in Europe. It is alone in encouraging people to reduce their energy consumption, and if they do so, they will obviously pay even less overhead bills. As far as taxing global large companies is concerned, you are always setting an example of this digital example, this Austrian example, which I would like to say is that Hungary has a much better tax, more elaborate and accepted by the European Union, and this is called advertising tax. It is true that the issue of advertising tax was suspended by the Hungarian Parliament due to economic difficulties, so it is not necessary to pay until 31 December 2022. But the re-introduction of the advertising tax may be on the agenda in the autumn for the negotiation of tax laws, which has already been accepted by the European Union. However, about the Austrian sample that we do not know how it works and how much revenue it brings to Austria; you may have a better view of the Austrian budget we do not know that it works at all, but we do know that it does not comply with the requirements and rules of the European Union. When you were arguing with the Prime Minister, it was also said that we can introduce a general tax on digital companies if there is unity in the European Union. You have rejected the introduction of a global minimum tax precisely because, according to the original idea, this would have been part of this form of taxation, but during the negotiations, that, no, it was excluded from this by some interest, and that only increased corporate tax to 15 per cent, which would have meant a loss of the competitive advantage acquired by Hungary in terms of taxation. The accusation or criticism that the Hungarian government would stand by the multinationals and not tax them, I must reject it, because the facts, the laws and laws introduced prove the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-8	I now give the floor to Congressman András Imre Jámbor, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2022-10-03-9	Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members! You lied in the campaign when you said there wouldn't be anyone's rent when you said there wouldn't be a tax increase, and when you said there wouldn't be any restrictions. And they've been lying steadily ever since. You're raising the rent, you've raised hundreds of thousands of people's taxes by abolishing the cat, the chips tax, the excise taxes, and we see that by letting the price rise go, how you're cutting people's wallets, you're pressing the last penny out of them with VAT revenue to patch up the budget deficit you've created. They do not say how the government will resolve this difficult situation, but blame it on sanctions. You are not to blame for your power, but Brussels is to blame for the situation in Hungary. For example, on Friday, Mr Orbán found on the radio that the pricestop system was also introduced because of sanctions. Someone should tell him that they were introduced months before the war, in January and in November of the previous year. But speaking of price stops: I wanted to bake chicken breasts for the kids on Saturday, but on Friday and Saturday, you couldn't get the price-stop product in any number of shops. It's a pleasure to have something cheap, just a little useless if you can't get it. It's a bit like the case of LPG cylinders, where you've reduced the 11.5-pound bottle, but you can't get it anywhere but the priced products. And you are not doing anything in a brutal livelihood crisis, while the price of bread and cheese is rising by 60 percent, three times as much as the EU average, and the euro is already at least HUF 426; I have not looked at it in the last two minutes. But back to the sanctions: obviously the global economic crisis is aggravated by war, and this is a problem, and you are right about that, but tell us how gas and electricity sanctions that have not yet entered into force can be more responsible for all of this than your governance. Tell me, if the stock exchange price for gas was more expensive in November 2021 than at the end of September, then sanctions are really responsible for all of this! And I repeat Peter Ungár's question last Monday: what is your plan to facilitate the end of the war? Okay, not sanctions. But then what will bring peace? A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that if you can't pay the rent, make better or save. Well, how better to earn the 700,000 civil servants whose salaries are determined by you? Because they don't get paid, they just do it for themselves. Meanwhile, we are being voted against our proposal to reduce politicians' salaries and raise teachers' wages. But they also lied about the latter, because it turns out that the Union is not going to finance the teacher's wage increase, and the Union is only giving 14 percent of it. Why are you waiting for the Union, why don't you give us 86 percent now? They also lie that today we can protest in Hungary without retaliation. May I remind you that in February this year, the Covid epidemic has been invoked to restrict teachers' right to strike without making sense of the protest. Then the Covid restrictions were lifted, except for this right to strike. And when the emergency came to an end, the restrictions on the teacher strike caused by Covid were put into one and the same law. Now, when teachers are in civil disobedience because of your ban, are you gonna start firing them? But even this is transparent, because it takes place on a political basis and not on the basis of law, because only in one school is teachers punished like this. So is everyone breaking the law, or is it just the people you choose to intimidate the teachers with this? But also lied, Secretary of State Répássy, who promised to investigate the Völner-Schadl executive mafia this spring. It was not investigated, our committee of inquiry was voted down on the subject, and then all evictions of the past years were released to the country at the end of the moratorium. [[13.30]] Over the last few weeks, we've had to stop illegal evictions, read in the press a story about a suicidal wounded man or a deputy of Schadl who was trying to recover a debt that had already been released. The capital has introduced the eviction moratorium; it would be time for you as long as the crisis lasts and until you investigate the cases of the executor's mafia. Everything is being voted out and nothing is being done in an economic and social crisis. There is money for secret services, there is money for national consultation, but the increase in teacher's wages is voted down, the reduction of VAT on basic foods, the reduction of VAT on basic food products, and the rejection of a resic coupon for families; the rejection of support for renewable energy and energy renovation programmes in an energy crisis! On top of that, they draw out the game and try to pin their debate with the European Commission on the opposition. They refuse to participate, and good opposition proposals are rejected, but the responsibility would be imposed on us. They don't give us cards, they bluff the whole time, and they tell us that we're paying the bet while you refuse to fight corruption; they refuse to create a fairer Hungary. You have the responsibility; you have the government; you have the two-thirds. No, my fellow Members, you are responsible for the lack of EU funds, and you are also responsible for their arrival. Stop lying and support our proposals in which, together with you, we can correct your mistakes. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-03-10	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'm trying to respond to as many topics as possible, it's affected me a lot. As far as energy prices are concerned, this is the government that decided on the reduction of the rent several years ago and insists on maintaining this support until the average consumption, which represents HUF 181 thousand in support of all families. [[It's an intervention from the dialogue benches.]] In this exceptional situation, it cannot bring similar amounts of aid from any EU country. On the issue of taxes: I am always surprised when you or any of your fellow Members bring up the issue of tax increases here. After all, you and your fellow Members want to raise, among other things, corporate tax on your party, income tax on a two-key basis, with up to a 30% upper rate; they want to introduce a carbon tax. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right!]] I suggest you take a look at the amount of tax increases you and your fellow Members want from the introduction of the carbon tax, only from that! [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] And then I didn't even talk about the burden that car users would suffer, such as the increased tolls or the congestion charge. After all, it is quite surprising that you are raising the tax issue here in this House. As far as the price stops go, we've been through an election campaign here. Did the candidate for Prime Minister on the right or the candidate for Prime Minister on the left say that world market prices should not be stopped at the border? It's yours. He's all yours. You don't support the pricestops. Let's take a look at the VAT case. There have been numerous votes in this House to reduce the VAT rates of certain foodstuffs which have not been supported, and the left has not supported it. And as far as the renovation program is concerned, this is always said, noting that there is a home renovation program in progress that can be used for house renovation, including the replacement of insulating materials, the replacement of windows or the installation of solar panels. So what you're saying doesn't exist is in the process. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] But in fact, we do not expect you to have at least one reality in this House. He said the government didn't do anything. Let me just mention a few: interest rate stop, gas stop, HUF 181 thousand, just mentioned subsidies on energy prices [[Szabó Timea:...stop it...]] and price-stop for basic foods. If I had to draw your speech on a logic, you would argue otherwise, and I would turn to the other issue here, so that the state spends more on certain areas, such as education, health care, and the social area are often brought up. I am not going to go into how much more of this government spends on these areas than the last left-wing government, but I would like to mention another aspect that is just as important: that most EU countries and governments now have very limited room for manoeuvre in terms of budgetary expenditure, because the situation caused by dissipating energy prices must be dealt with somehow; that families can pay their bills; that factories should not stop and jobs should not be lost, and that the situation that has arisen, should hold on, is clearly the result of sanctions policy. And from this point of view, it is not irrelevant how prices have evolved in recent months. I suggest you take a look at the chart of market prices. The increase in the price has become much higher after the penalty decision in June than after the war started. Look at this graph. [[The representatives of the Dialogue keep interrupting.]] And it doesn't matter that you're 100% pro-sanctioned. Even after the war started, they wanted to shut down the gas tap and demand to cancel the Paks Nuclear Power Plant investment. Their man, Jávor Benedek, in a completely insensitive way, even argues that we should pay for the student money because we didn't learn from history. What insensitiveness! At the same time, the shadow minister of the shadow government is attacking the pricestops, so while you are demanding, there is a left-wing shadow government where the relevant minister goes against it. This also means that if we listen to you, not only would the gas be much more expensive, but it is also not certain that there would be gas in Hungary. If we listen to you, there would be no Paks power generation, which is the guarantee of cheap electricity. And if we listened to you, there wouldn't be a gas stop. This is important not only because it would seriously burden family registers, but also because there would be much less room for manoeuvre in the budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you would like more room for manoeuvre for certain expenses, I suggest that [[László Varju: If you want more in time, ask for a word! Szabó Timea: Time's up!]] support the government's fight against sanctions. I hope your foreign sponsors will allow that. Hope is the last thing that dies. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-03-12	I would like to inform the representatives of the Dialogue that there is no competition in the house rules as to how many people can overshout the replying secretary of state. [[There's an intervention from the dialogue benches, damn it... the representatives of the dialogue are wearing a plaid shirt.]] Their dress isn't fit for parliament, I can see that, but neither is their behavior. [[Szabó Timea:...the teacher's wage increase would be worthy of Parliament!]] Congressman Brenner Koloman is next.
u2022-10-03-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Every time I feel discouraged, I just think that in history the truth and love have always triumphed. I think these days Mahatma Gandhi's quote fits exactly the teacher colleagues who were dismissed by your one-party overpowerers. Imagine, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, how the teacher's colleague, in his sixth hour, is bringing his resignation letter to the school district; how the students, the parents, feel. They feel that this is your fidesz party state. They can feel it! I think that this is the best indicator of what you consider not only teachers, but also the Hungarian citizens, especially the intellectuals that are extremely suspicious to you: a subject. For those who, only because your fidesz one-party overpower has virtually forbidden one of their fundamental rights, namely their right to strike, therefore, in their final despair, they resort to the instrument of civil disobedience, and even in your laws, it is not possible to punish these colleagues with such a disproportionate and totally faulty step, in our opinion. As a conservative party, we consider teachers not to be subject, but to be responsible intellectuals, who are the key to our future. And look in the mirror how we hope to emerge from this national disaster, caused by your almost 13-year-long one-party overpower. What logic is it that punishes precisely those colleagues with a disproportionate sanction, even according to your laws, who are supposed to train their future youth to stand up for values to stand up for our values! In a balanced civil democracy, we would be the first party to the rule of law to say that this is the end, that everyone must abide by the law. But unfortunately, you sent our country 32 years after the change of regime to the fact that you already have a document that this is not a balanced civil democracy. And, in my opinion, Mahatma Gandhi and the dismissed teachers now have the truth, and the truth is on the side of the parents, educators and students who support them. [[13.40]] I think everyone in this country feels that for a reason, there will be national educators' strikes. I think that, in this extremely difficult economic and social crisis, a very conservative policy would be to immediately transfer you from this year's budget to the issue of education so that you can immediately give your teachers a 50 percent wage increase, which, by the way, you know this strike threat immediately with a pen stroke, comrades, as you usually do, to beat a law through this parliament in 30 hours, which is exactly how you should carry out a 50 percent wage increase for teachers. Regroup immediately into the area of education, so that there is heating in schools, do not have to go to online education, as we have already seen in the pandemic period that, unfortunately, according to various experts, one-third and one-quarter of Hungarian young people and children were left out of quality education, online education, because they simply didn't have the opportunity. I think that this is a common national issue in which you should finally rise above party politics. Let us finally acknowledge that conservative crisis management, if we don't give 6 percent but 8 percent of the Hungarian national product to education! That's what we're fighting for. That's what we're fighting for. I think that, indeed, now would be a good time, at a critical time, to finally begin together with the comprehensive modernisation that will then lead to the 21st century. In the centuries of knowledge and information, the well-being and freedom of all Hungarian citizens depend. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-03-14	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-10-03-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, That education is one of the most important areas of this government is that of the past 12 years, honourable Member. If you remember what it was 12 years ago, you could see it yourself, in order to pay the teachers' salaries to the municipalities, you had to take out loans, a loan of HUF 1200 billion, a bond for the municipalities to pay the salaries of teachers, doctors and other institutions and social institutions. On the other hand, we paid this debt to the municipalities on the one hand, but we, precisely so that there is no difference between the quality of a richer settlement and the school of a poorer settlement, and this difference should be reduced as much as possible, which, fortunately, in the recent PISA measurements, is now quantifiable, that the influence of the background on students from 26 percent to 19 percent, so that the more difficult disadvantaged environment is less determined by the performance of the students, so that this does not stay so, but reduce the difference, so we started to maintain the schools in the state by 2013, because we thought it was important that education should be safe and that teachers' pay should also be certain. Since then, such problems as before 2010 have not been dealt with by paying teachers' wages. Nor is it a coincidence that the first large civil servant group you mentioned that the state has countless employees, for whom we started a wage increase, was precisely the teachers, because this is how we can best serve the future by launching a multi-year wage-raise program of up to 50 percent. When the epidemic was here, there was an increase in teachers' wages during the epidemic, and there is the global economic crisis, all the countries of the world are struggling, but this year also started with a teacher's wage increase in Hungary, and next year will start with a teacher's wage increase, and the following year will also start with a teacher's wage increase, because it is essential for us. We agree, honourable Member, that teachers should earn more, for the work they do, they should indeed receive more wages. That's why we don't have to advertise any action to allow the government to understand that, because we agree on that. That is why we have raised and will raise salaries next year and beyond. We would like to be able not only to spend budget forints on this, but also to put a forint from EU sources in addition to a budget forint, because this is how we want to improve our future, we believe that this is the development of the country, these are development resources, we want to develop our country through education. We can see that there are not very good ears for this in Brussels. I have to say, however, that your allies, fellow parties, Brussels-based departments, so to say, do not exactly represent this position, and do not encourage these resources, the country's development resources, to add to the wage increase, but rather prevent Hungary from getting this as soon as possible, they are talking about why Hungary does not receive any of its own money, and therefore cannot spend it on teachers as well. So, honourable Member, that is what we are doing. We'd like to do it on a larger scale. All we ask of you is that you do not prevent us from placing a single EU forint next to a budget forint. Honourable Congressman, You can surprise us every week. You started your speech by saying that the last 32 years have been a legitimate period in Hungary, but now the rule of law is over. In order to make the rubber bullet period a better example of legality, and today, when everyone has the right to assemble, but this is called an illegal period, this is loyalty to Ferenc Gyurcsány, which is perhaps a little more than you can expect to see no rule of law now, but when the peaceful memorialists were hammered with a sword when rubber bullets came, when many of us experienced the smell of tear gas at a peaceful memorial, you said it was a period of rule of law. [[Constant intervention on the opposition and pro-government side. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't want that rule of law anywhere in the world. You have been talking, honourable Member, about the problem of cold classrooms, which the government is trying to eliminate by all means to ensure that the conditions of teaching in schools are in fact guaranteed, and that there is no need to impose online education. You are mocking us when we look for B, C, D and E solutions that, if there is a problem with gas somewhere, there is an alternative way to heat up the school so that students are exactly warm and that they do not stop teaching and do not have an online education. When we look for solutions, not because our good mood dictates this or we have a lot of free time, but because there are such conditions across Europe that are caused by sanctions, then your party president says on 21 September that sanctions need to be stepped up. Honourable Congressman, Talk to your party president. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that sanctions should not be stepped up, but should finally be abolished, so that there is no problem with heating schools or apartments anywhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-16	Now it's time for David Bedő.
u2022-10-03-17	Thank you very much for the floor. After today's government responses, I think my speech before the agenda will be particularly good, because I would like to talk about responsibility today. The success is always common, failure is always orphaned. This wisdom was shared with us by the current Prime Minister in March 2006 preparing for the elections. Then you said if they lost, you'd resign, and then, of course, what? He's still sitting on our backs. They have improved the wisdom of their leader, and since then, success has always been considered to be only their own merit, but the failures, well, they have always been the responsibility of someone else. Before you, there has been a government and a prime minister in this country who has been unable to take responsibility, to this day. Looks like you've learned a lot from your predecessor. You've been showing off for the last 12 years. That was the first scapegoat invented to cover up their own incompetence. They are incapable of taking responsibility, while the facts have clearly revealed the truth: the economic success of the past 12 years is not due to your genius, but rather to the money that comes from the European Union to the country. Say, instead of thanking you, you had a fight with the Union, which is why they haven't given us a forint in a year. The economic model built as a house of cards, restrictions, gas price increases, fasting inflation, forints falling, pay stop, 18-degree-free public institutions are collapsing below you. What more would they need to take responsibility for their failures? You believe that high gas prices are responsible for sanctions. What doesn't bother you is that none of these sanctions affect the trade in gas or that you voted in favour of all the sanctions. You are responsible for the retail gas price increase because you have abolished the previous reduction of the overhead when it is most needed. They've been profiting from low gas prices for years, and the money they've collected from people should be spent on their support now, but you've already scattered it. You also believe that the sanctions are responsible for inflation, and here you are not disturbed by the reality that the price increase started long before the war. [[Bence Rétvári: There's no gas line blown up, is there?]] You are responsible for the fact that Hungarian inflation is nearly twice the price rise in the euro area. [[Bence Rétvári: The euro zone has a record high.]] [[13.50]] Yet you lie to the Hungarian people with an unwieldy face, and take the consequences of your own failed economic policy into account. The war is also responsible for the record weak forints, i.e. according to your logic. Have you not noticed that the forint has been going downhill unstoppably for years? And have you noticed that the only currency in the region has not weakened as much as the forint? Under their governance, the value of the Hungarian currency deteriorated by 52 percent and more than 140 HUF compared to the euro. But you think the war is causing the forint to weaken. Yes, it must have weakened for 12 years because of the war that broke out in February, because you believe that Hungary is particularly affected by the war, it affects it even more than the country where the war is going on. They've been governing for 12 years with a two-thirds mandate. You chose to rule this country. You chose to seek unlimited power, not to listen to anyone, to devour the entire country as a baby ball. But it seems they only gave their faces to what happened until the wagon went out of the Union's money. They were throwing someone else's money, but they pretended that all success was for the government. And now that the whole place that they've put together is falling down, they'd be running from it without thinking, pointing at it everywhere they can see. Who else is to blame: Soros, Brussels, USA, sanctions, war. I'm asking you to stop taking responsibility for psychopathy. [[Bence Rétvári: War is psychopathy!]] Let us finally tell the truth: you are responsible for the collapse of our economy. [[Bence Rétvári: The economy has been collapsing for 12 years.]] ; you, and you alone, are responsible for the lack of money to help people in trouble, the lack of money to heat public institutions, the lack of money for new investments, the lack of money for the basic operation of the country, education, health care or municipalities. You're responsible! Get your shit together. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] For once, act like a decent man, try to see what it's like, and finally admit that you're responsible. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, Momentum, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-10-03-18	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Fürjes.
u2022-10-03-19	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm trying to pull myself together and act like a decent person to the best of my ability. Let's talk a little bit about responsibility, sanctions, and who you really are responsible for in light of the news over the past few weeks. We can talk about responsibility when your party president encourages protesters to take a bridge against the oath of their representatives, illegal conduct, in a legitimate protest, by the way. Let's talk about one of your former party presidents throwing smoke grenades at the cops, and before that, he went into the newspaper office and threatened journalists. First of all, we do not agree on almost anything, but I would like to assure you that I understand your desperation, which came from your violent words. Maybe they're watching this movie at the Momentum, Umbrella Academy, Umbrella Academy, that's what this reminds me of. There's the fact that Papa Sir Reginald, a billionaire capitalist, first adopted the children to use them for his world- conquering plans, and then when he found the puppy team useless, he replaced them, see the youth department. So, I understand the bitterness, just like Ferenc Gyurcsány just announced a new season without you and Gergely Christmas without anyone else. I understand the bitterness that even Gyurcsány doesn't need them, and they can't even fit into the shadow government. However, this bitterness does not explain why they constantly oppose the opinion of Hungarians and the interests of Hungarians, such as the issue of sanctions. Hungary's interest is very clear: it is in our interest not to push the European economy and Hungary into recession, but to threaten it with the loss of jobs by the sanctions energy crisis and the failed sanctions policy in Brussels. Compared to that, you're on the side of sanctions. If it were up to you, Hungary's energy supply would be at risk. And here comes the question of responsibility: but why are you constantly pursuing a policy, why are you representing a policy that is responsible for leading to an election defeat? Fourth, they hit the two-thirds glass door. Your statements, statements by left-wing politicians and reports from the press, such as the fact-finding report of 24.hu, which is not the right-wing one at all, give the answer to this question. This is because you are on the side of sanctions, you are against the interests of Hungary because you are not your own masters, you are being paid from abroad, and as we know, the person who pays for the band orders the music, as we have heard in this comment. Before you get upset, I ask you to listen to yourselves, face your own words. Your candidate for Prime Minister said that they received nearly HUF 2 billion for the left-wing campaign, and even in the summer, they paid campaign bills. And Ágnes Kunhalmi, the leading left-wing politician, co-chairman of the socialists, said in a television interview, a verbatim quote: "The whole opposition is misunderstood. You mean you. Unfortunately, in many respects it is isolated from the vast majority of its own voting base. This is what Agnes Kunhalmi says about you. He's been trying to live up to a very narrow system of expectations for a very long time, which, if someone tries to quit or talks or tries to speak in a different voice, he'll be killed. That's what Agnes Kunhalmi said about you. If you step out of this tight system of expectations, you'll be killed. He went on to say: "The creators of the campaign strategy knew very little about Hungarian history. It's bad luck what the American consultants did. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Let's put together the words of Péter Márki-Zay and Ágnes Kunhalmi: the millions of dollars are ringing in the left-wing party box, Americans are organizing the left-wing campaign, and the left is trying to live up to a narrow set of expectations, which, if different, you will be killed, you said yourself. But disprove us, agree with us that the main objective of the European Union should be peace, so that energy sources are not subject to sanctions, and that Hungary will receive it immediately. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the EU's rightful resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-03-20	Zoltán Vajda, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2022-10-03-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Colleagues, Five days ago, the Ministry of Finance issued a communication, which begins this way, and I quote you literally: "The government has ordered disciplined, economical farming in the budgetary bodies. Once again, the government has ordered disciplined, economical farming at the budgetary authorities. Well, I think that would be the normal state that shouldn't be ordered separately. However, the fact that the Ministry of Finance was forced to issue such a statement clearly shows that the government has lost control. There's a drift towards the ravine. It's a bankruptcy, not a bankruptcy, it's a government bankruptcy. This is what Viktor Orbán's radio interview revealed on Friday. He has no idea how to deal with the problems, he tries to serve the interests of Putin, and this only pushes Hungary deeper in the crisis. He announced that the brutal increase in energy prices will remain next year, i.e. the government will expect cuts in 23rd, and even called the budget that you forced through Parliament in July and accused almost everyone but yourself of lying. The upper level of cynicism, according to Orbán, has nothing to do with Hungary's 12-year-long government, today facing a livelihood crisis that has not been experienced in decades, that the budget has failed, that the forint continues to be thin, that the price is constantly increasing, and that the payment and pension are melting faster and faster than the store's cash registers. Dear Colleagues, Back in the summer, when we were discussing the budget, I asked you to wait for us to discuss the budget only this December. I'm usually happy when I'm right about something, but I don't feel that way now, because my truth means that millions of my countrymen will suffer because Fidesz lied to them. Fidesz lied about the budget, the stability of the economy, energy prices, almost everything. And the fidesz lies bring Hungary into crisis, because now the representatives of the government have realized that next year's budget forced through the summer has failed in just two months. [[14.00]] The government built it on unreliable data, for example 4.1 percent economic growth, 3.5 percent deficit target, 5.2 percent inflation and attention! Built on an exchange rate of €371. Right now, it's falling, it's a record weak, it's 425 forints euro. Dear Colleagues, What you want to force on this country next year is nothing more than a gigantic austerity package. Most of the appropriations were accepted with only 4-5 percent increase, which, if I count, say, only 14 percent inflation, means that we can see a lot of 10 percent withdrawal on every line. In fact, to give you a fresh experience: on Friday night, with the first day of the heating season, the state threw out district heating facilities; it pushed nursery schools, crèches, hospitals and universities into the ravine without preparation and coordination, with their heating bill growing 10-13 times as fast as before. Colleagues, this is unacceptable, especially if there is another way! We expect a new budget to be put before us, we need a resistop and the safety of livelihoods, not fidesz restrictions. The 12 forints of Paks electricity is given to people for as much as it costs; reduce the public energy tax rate to 5 per cent and take back the local governments and SMEs in the protected supply chain; withdraw the increase in the system usage charges for the extra profit of their oligarchs, introduce the guaranteed basic energy service so that no one in their home freezes because they do not have access to the amount of electricity and gas needed to sustain their lives. Or the pension premium and the 13th month pension will be paid to all pensioners for the same amount, providing the average pensioners with a monthly refund of at least HUF 10 000 per month during the heating season. We expect the rate of the pension increase due on 1 January 23 to be fixed not on the basis of the 5.2 per cent inflation proposed by Fidesz, but on the basis of the pension price index for pensioners in August 22 to increase by 15.7 per cent. Ensure a well-earned wage increase for educators, health workers and social workers! If you prepare the new budget taking into account all of this, at least you can improve the damage you have caused so far. We need a new budget, bring it to Parliament. Now, be brave. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-10-03-22	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2022-10-03-23	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reassure you that the 2022 budget is operational, solvent, and that the government's commitments which it has set out can be fulfilled. It is very important that this year, next month, pensioners will be paid for the inflation-following pension supplement, and surely pension premium will also be paid. As you can see, despite the difficult economic circumstances, and I am only talking about 2022, family support has not been reduced, no family allowance has been reduced, whether it is tax relief or any other form of support. The budget is obviously economical and strict, and that is why certain budget lines have been withheld and reorganised. Honourable Congressman, The fact that a budget is being amended is not a novelty, because if we look back on the governance of the last 12 years, in parallel with economic performance, the budgetary situation has improved. It was also exemplary in the European Union how Hungary can reduce its budget deficit and how it can reduce the collapsed, bankrupt budget that we took over from the left-wing government of MSZP in 2010 and straighten out how it can rescue the two million contracted people who had a hopeless situation from the foreign exchange crisis. It's all been solved by the Fidesz government over the past year. So I'm asking you not to fear the Fidesz government for the budget. The budgetary situation was better when the performance of the economy was higher, and we did not talk about recessions or sanctions, not about a decline in economic performance, this is true of Europe and of the world, not about high inflation, of course it was better and stronger. But now, when the situation is difficult, the budget will still be balanced, balanced and balanced with the budget you quoted in 2023. The adopted budget of 2023 has two priorities: the creation of the Rehabilitation Fund and the Defence Fund. These funds will continue to work in the following year. The Renewal Fund is open from above, so it can ensure reduced fees for the population up to the average consumption. The same is true of the Defense Fund. But other government priorities will also remain and will be fulfilled, so primarily the 13th month pension for pensioners mentioned above, the payment of commitments made during the year and, of course, the support system for families. If necessary, the 2023 budget will provide the job protection action plan if the economic system produces negative results that we will have to keep jobs. The budget can, of course, be modified, but it is not unknown to socialist governments either, since you, when you were not a public figure and did not deal with politics, were modified by the then government in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and you did not deal with budgetary matters, and the then government changed the budget. Of course, the current government will also adjust the budget for 2023 to economic developments, economic growth and inflation, but I note that three quarters of the budget will not be affected by economic growth and inflation in one budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-24	Next up is László Varju.
u2022-10-03-25	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The daily life of Hungarian people takes a dramatic turn in these weeks. The cause of the crisis was not Russian aggression, the European record of inflation was owned by the Orbán government long before Putin attacked the independent Ukraine. I disprove you, Mr Secretary of State, and you are Europe's goal of peace. The EU sanctions against the Russians are not to blame for the increase, but, as Viktor Orbán voted for them one by one, precisely the failed, much mentioned, the previous economic policy in the turn, the government budget, and the unprecedented lack of balance of payments. The low-cost gas lies in Orbán are responsible for the rise in the overhead. Dear House, You have the right, but you no longer have the ability to resolve this situation. Shadow government led by Dobrev Klára, seeing the inaction of the Orbán government [[Noise on the pro-government side. Bence Rétvári: Mr. Shadow Minister!]] and has proposed a solution to everything that you have caused and is attempting to alleviate the crisis. The Shadow Government also negotiated with union leaders last Friday, which, by the way, you can't do, which you can't do. In addition to the brutal increase in energy prices, it can be seen that the payment of the so-called system usage fee is a huge burden for retail consumers. It is of particular concern that the law also records the retail consumer among network users. Dear House, According to the shadow government, the use of system charges cannot be continued in the future, especially since the government announced a new increase in gas prices as of 1 October. The Orbán government, which is responsible for the crisis, apparently has no effect over the 12 years, and the Hungarian families expect help from Viktor Orbán in vain. [[14.10]] We cannot help the Prime Minister either, but the Hungarians could be helped, which is why the shadow government has developed the five points that are the package of measures known as the regime oratorium. [[Bence Rétvári: Known? Eszter Vályos: They didn't even vote for a reduction in the rent.]] The shadow government would end the regime with five measures and protect the Hungarian families. The volume of gas and electricity that can be given to the public at reduced prices should be doubled, because the current volume of public prices is far below the actual average consumption. If you call it average consumption, then it should be, in fact, double the reduced amount. The VAT on gas and electricity received at market prices should be reduced to 5%. The government doesn't want to make money on any of the family's runaway expenses anyway, so don't let those who have raised the price of gas sevenfold. The regime must be introduced to those who have paid well so far. Those who, on 1 August 2022, did not have a debt exceeding one month's account value and who continue to pay the average monthly account value between January and August 2022, shall not be able to turn off gas and electricity until 30 June 2023. You've been following me, haven't you? No home can fall into the dark, no home can remain unheated. Today, you, fellow Members, are also raising your bills to those who, by the way, have access to the official price. This should end and the system usage charge should be frozen, in accordance with January 2022. A system of support should be developed for the management of accumulated payments due to the social and income situation. Now we also know that the Orbán government wants to bankrupt the local governments by raising its prices. Yesterday, the shadow government announced at the press conference that the municipalities would pay about ten times the total cost of district heating for their institutions. With this, the Orbán government not only closes down the most important local government institutions supplying social and children for the winter, but by the end of the heating season it will bankrupt 80-90 percent of the Hungarian municipalities. [[Eszter Vitalyos: You tried this before 2010.]] Dear House, The crisis is caused by Viktor Orbán. The crisis will remain as long as Viktor Orbán is here with us. The proposal of the shadow government led by Klára Dobrev offers a meaningful and realistic alternative for Hungarian families to survive the livelihood crisis caused by the Orbán government this winter. I suggest you try it. This is the suggestion of the shadow government led by Dobrev Klára. Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks. Eszter Vitalos: God save you from him!]]
u2022-10-03-26	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-10-03-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The attempt to deny the consequences of sanctions is remarkable. [[Bence Rétvári: The war, too.]] Listening to his fellow Member at the moment earlier, we even thought about it, we feared that he would even try to deny the fact of the war and that it had an impact on the European economy at all. [[Eszter Vital: Like everything.]] I would like to tell you once again that the great increase in energy prices began when the decision on oil sanctions was taken in June. [[László Varju: What does not apply to Hungary and does not have natural gas.]] And with that momentum, they turned on the gas sanctions. What you have said does not correspond to reality, the Prime Minister of Oil Sanctions...
u2022-10-03-28	László Varju's time is up!
u2022-10-03-29	...he didn't support it, he made it so that Hungary wouldn't be subject to it. Before the election, at an EU summit, it was said that sanctions would not be extended to the energy industry. That is what the German Chancellor said, said the President of the European Commission, and then it was overwritten. We have been tricked, we have been tricked, and the price of this is paid not only by us, but by all European citizens. Now you said that EU leaders work for peace. I wish that were true. I suggest that you take note of the European Commission President's summary speech in the European Parliament: he said that there is no need for reconciliation. That's what he said. Or I suggest you take a look at what the President of the European Council said recently: he said that we should mobilise him in Europe. These are not steps towards peace. As far as the shadow government is concerned, we hear that you've declared a shadow government. There has been a shadow government meeting, there has been a shadow government briefing, and it actually describes their relationship to democracy quite well, because in spring the voters, the Hungarians, sent a lot of messages, but they just didn't tell me that they wanted a little more from the left of Gyurcsány. On the contrary. In some ways, by declaring the shadow government, clear water comes into the cup, and it has been proven, as we have always said, that DK is the leading force of the left. Because think about it: Gergely Christmas did not proclaim a shadow government, not Jobbik, who resembled the left, not one of the current presidents of the Momentum, not even the MSZP, even because his representatives eventually end up in DK. But more importantly, if you look at the members of the shadow government and what they represent, you'd better buckle your seat belts. Because while you're asking the government to make a living, your shadow economic minister is on a completely different line: he'd drive a gas stop. [[László Varju: It's not true!]] He says that Hungarians would be able to pay double the petrol price. He also added that they should go by public transport or by bicycle. Not to mention, he also attacked the reduction of the rent. And then DK stands up, shadow government info, and here in the House, and in the matter of overhead, the government is accountable for energy prices. Let's get one thing straight here, Congressman. One is that when they were on the government, they didn't stop the energy prices at all, even though there was no war at that time, there was no price limit. [[László Varju: Support!]] And one more thing: if they had come to power now in April, they would also have done nothing, as their Prime Minister candidate has also made it clear that they do not intend to stop world market prices at the border. [[Intruder from the pro-government side: That's right!]] And if anyone asks what your party president said, he said to the price limit, "It's a stupidity," and I quoted it here. Now who could seriously think for a second that such a shadow government would lower prices? Who could seriously think that you're in this or in any other case they're telling the truth? Especially since Ferenc Gyurcsány, after Balatonőd, has now been able to lie about the bar in Vötcsé. He said the reason the shadow government is good is because Béla can vote for a left-wing government in the kötchei tavern. Now journalists have gone to the tavern in Venetian, and it turns out that they don't know about Béla, and Ferenc Gyurcsány doesn't go there either. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: For he does not go there. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Shadow Chief must have been in a shadow pub; there are many shadows, but the lie, unfortunately, is the same. Honourable Congressman, A few days ago, your boss said that there is an election, and there is an election: Viktor Orbán or Klára Dobrev, so the Gyurcsány family. We agree with this dilemma or this key definition of the issue, by the way. The Hungarians also chose on 3 April, and as long as DK is the leader of the left, there are not so many shadow ministers, there are not so many shadow government seats and there are not so many shadow government contacts and there are not so many lies that can change this will. They've had a lot of chances, and they've played it. We're not gonna let them do that again, least of all in a wartime. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-03-30	I now give the floor to KDNP's representative, István Hollik.
u2022-10-03-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the last 32 years, there has been no precedent for what happened in the Hungarian election campaign in 2022. Your candidate for Prime Minister has admitted that he has received hundreds of millions of forints of campaign money from abroad. Since then, of course, we know that this hundreds of millions of forints is actually two billion forints, and we also know that this dollar left page was given to him by George Soros, an organization called Action for Democracy. Since the change of regime, there has been no attempt by foreign individuals or companies to gain influence in parliamentary elections with campaign support. Of course, it did not happen because this is strictly forbidden in Hungary. The Act on the Functioning of the Parties clearly states that parties cannot accept subsidies from abroad. This principle based on popular sovereignty was kicked off by the dollar left when he accepted the millions of George Soros. Otherwise, foreign campaign funding is not prohibited in Hungary alone, 68 percent of the world's countries have similar provisions, and even in the case of elections to the European Parliament, the European Union bans all donations from third country organisations or individuals. In fact, even the Venice Commission states that foreign aid undermines the fairness of political competition and can lead to a distortion of electoral results. [[14.20]] Moreover, the Venice Commission says that aid from abroad may also jeopardise the territorial integrity of the State. This case is therefore serious and the legal situation is clear and is therefore being investigated by the authorities. The matter is therefore extraordinary and raises a number of questions. The first of these is what George Soros asked you to do in exchange for the millions of dollars, because no one really believes that a businessman would expect nothing for such a large amount of support. Although many of you have asked this question, they are not willing to answer it at this time. In order to find the answer to this question, all you have to do is examine what is in George Soros's best interests, for he is obviously asking for something that is in his best interests. What we do know is that in recent decades, the stock market speculator has always taken advantage of crises, and there have been times when he himself has started them to look for them. Today there is an energy crisis in Europe, the main cause of which is Brussels' faulty sanctions. György Soros would support and even harden them by introducing a ban on Russian gas imports into the sanctioning regime. If we look at the stock market transactions that George Soros had in 2022, then it becomes clear why this is his position. After all, it is now known that Soros has a share of 12 energy companies, of which there are eight companies with significant profits. More than 50 percent of the stock exchange speculator's largest annual profits come from the shares of an energy-profile company, the American gas producer Energy Transfer LP, which is not surprisingly engaged in the transportation of liquefied natural gas, i.e. LNG. Also, LNG production is also carried out by TotalEnergies or the American Williams energy company, from which Soros also received significant revenues. The formula, honourable left-wing fellow Members, has come together. György Soros is making a lot of money out of the energy crisis caused by sanctions, while Europe is getting caught up in it. It is therefore in George Soros' interest to maintain sanctions. And this is how we get to the most serious question of the case: is there a connection between the interests of George Soros and the sanctions advocated by the dollar left? Since this is a matter of meaty concern to our daily lives through energy prices, we ask the National Security Committee to examine this matter as deeply as possible at its meeting this week. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-32	Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-10-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The party law clearly draws the boundaries that are acceptable in Hungarian democracy. In part, the parties are entitled to state budget support both for their operation and for their election campaign, which is conditional on their management being legitimate and transparent. So since the change of regime, the Parliament's will has been to support the Hungarian parties only from sources which cannot be anonymous sources, anonymous sources and support from abroad. So there has been consensus in Hungary for years, decades, that support from abroad cannot be accepted for political competition. This rule was broken by the left in the last elections, not even with small amounts, but with nearly HUF 2 billion in support from the United States of America. So not only does it violate a written rule, but it also violates an unwritten rule. In addition, even if we believe the explanation that here they did not actually support a party, but a civil society organisation, remember that a few years ago, the Parliament held a serious debate on the support of civil society organisations abroad. There, the National Assembly expected nothing else except to make it public that someone was being supported as a civil society organisation from abroad. That's a rule this organization has broken. If it were true that it had received this support not for its political activity but merely for its civilian activity, it would have been obliged to disclose this support. In every respect, this conduct is illegal, and it needs to be investigated in every respect. Obviously, it is not worth agreeing that there has been a crime, which will be decided by the competent authorities, but that there is an unprecedented scandalum, which we can all support here. So, honourable Member, honourable House, the inquiry is justified, and it is justified to investigate within Parliament and by the administration of justice. No matter what anyone says, this case can no longer be swept under the rug. So I ask, first of all, the opposition parties of Parliament to take the lead in this investigation and support the investigation, whether it be a parliamentary committee or an independent and impartial inquiry. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-34	The last of the comments before the agenda is János Halász, on behalf of Fidesz. I give you the floor.
u2022-10-03-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Our eastern neighbor continues to fight bloody battles. The prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war is causing Europe serious economic difficulties. The problems are compounded by Brussels' failed sanctions policy, resulting in war inflation in the countries of the continent and an unprecedented energy crisis. It can be said that the direct cause of the difficult economic situation is the increased energy prices due to the failed war penalty package and sanctions. The war between Ukraine and Russia would be a local conflict in itself, and sanctions turned it into a global economic war. In most countries, the increase in energy prices has an indirect and direct impact on inflation, particularly in countries which are heavily exposed to Russian energy imports. Dear House, These harsh energy prices are not influenced by external factors, and unforeseen economic processes are the cause of the current crisis. The drastic increase in energy prices was clearly triggered by sanctions. In June 2022, the economic and trade sanctions, including the oil transport penalty, were adopted in Brussels and the gas purchase penalty started to float. As a result, from June 2022 the price of natural gas doubled in one month and then tripled. At the same time, the rules in Brussels link the price of EU electricity to the price of gas, so the price of electricity has also been launched on the market, and the price in Europe has now been 100 euros per unit in April 2022, with the same unit moving between 400 and 600 euros today. Dear House, We can safely say that this is not what Brussels promised when it introduced sanctions. Brussels tricked us. They said that sanctions would bring Russia to its knees and put an end to the war. Compared to this, since the introduction of sanctions, inflation has been on the rise, European people have become poorer, Europe is under threat of crisis and energy shortages, energy prices have skyrocketed, and war is going on. As a result of the sanctions, Europe became poorer, but Russia did not collapse. This weapon backfired, with sanctions, Europe shot itself in the leg. At present, Europeans are paying a penalty premium for energy, which makes the future uncertain. The question is that we will make this situation worse, because in Brussels they want to introduce new sanctions. It hurts people, and speculators rub their hands. That is why it is time to ask the Hungarian people how they want new sanctions and how they feel about the current ones. The Fidesz faction welcomes the government's discussion of the national consultation initiative and decided to launch it. The Brussels elite has never once dared to ask what the European people think about sanctions, but the Hungarians, first in Europe, will have the opportunity to express their views. Dear House, It is amazing that the Hungarian left also represents the interests of Brussels instead of the Hungarian people in the case of misguided war sanctions. [[14.30]] The dollar left would have shut off the oil and gas taps a long time ago, putting the country's power supply at risk. If it were up to them, there would be nothing in the world to protect Hungarian families and pensioners from multiple energy prices. It is outrageous that the entire left, led by Gyurcsány, is fully in favour of the sanctions that cause the increase in prices in Brussels, while they are attacking the Hungarian debt reduction, they have always opposed it. Even now, all Hungarian families would pay an average of HUF 181 thousand more for gas and electricity on average without the reduction of the rent. Unfortunately, we can still expect nothing from the dollar left. However, the Fidesz faction fully supports the Government in its efforts to combat the failed Brussels sanctions policy and to preserve the country's peace and security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-36	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-10-03-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In Austria, an emergency gas supply has been declared. Twelve percent of Austrian people expect to be unable to pay their rent. In Linz, the lighting was limited. In the case of public parks, they light only for a shorter period. In Latvia, overhead costs increased by 5.5 times compared to the same period of the previous year. Lithuania also has nearly 40 percent increase. Cologne can't pay the street lights at night, so they turned off the street lights at a certain time. In Romania, household utility prices increased by 65 percent, by 60% for electricity, by up to 300 percent for natural gas, and other examples could be listed, both in Western Europe and in Eastern Europe, which have acted as a result of war and sanctions. On the left side, almost only war has not been denied today, but it has been said that sanctions have nothing to do with price increases and the energy crisis. But, ladies and gentlemen of the left, how is it that, when another war between Russia and Ukraine was waged between the Crimean war and there were no such sanctions affecting the energy sector, there was no energy price explosion? Because at the time the framework for sanctions was limited, but now they are very wide-ranging, and therefore result in an energy price explosion, and that is why similar news exists in Western and Eastern Europe. But how did the left react? Let's start with the shadow minister of the shadow government, Klára Dobrev. He said, literally, I quote, that very strong and hard sanctions can stop Putin. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Interview from DK's ranks: That's right!]] So he said that sanctions should be supported, and Vladimir Putin's army would stop and turn back. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] In March we had to give 144 rubles for 1 euro, now 55 rubles for 1 euro. This isn't exactly about stopping Putin. But let's continue with Klára Dobrev's quotes. I am not satisfied with the sanctions so far. I am pleased that there have been very serious responses, but they are not sufficient. This means that we really need to take further steps. After leaving the tiny mansion, the shadow minister of the shadow government decided that more sanctions would be needed throughout Europe. And he went on to say, "We will not back down, we will also vote for more stringent sanctions." So, then, all sanctions proposals would be supported by the left. But the President of Jobbik also said that we are pursuing a resolution policy against Russia, which is very right. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left:. I see no better option than the sanctions that work anyway. So they think the sanctions are working, the Russian army has stopped, and there is no need to deal with the energy crisis in Europe. Benedek Jávor: We can and must bring further sanctions against Russia, including restrictions on energy markets. He's clearly pro-energy-sanctioned. Gergely Christmas: I am glad that the sanction package has been established, and Hungary has finally not been able to prevent it. Gergely Karácsony would have been pleased if the Hungarian government had acted against the national interest and caused an even more serious energy crisis in Hungary. Bence of Turdai went perhaps the furthest, he said: "It would be time for Hungary to start direct arms shipments and implement sanctions and stop the Paks II project in Putin. So we shouldn't even have electricity, not just gas. István Újhelyi, Presidential candidate from MSZP to DK, tells the left-wing party that the sanctions still work on 8 September. Ladies and Gentlemen, We can see that there are not only sanctions, but also additional difficulties in the energy situation in Europe. We see that slowly the Nord Stream gas pipeline has more holes than the Emmental cheese, making the energy crisis that is developing irreversible. We also see that the Germans are massaging, announcing their own economic rescue programme, and not a European rescue programme. The European Commission has caused the economic crisis and the energy crisis with the sanctions, but it does not help to resolve them, but the Member States announce their own rescue packages individually. It's incredibly irresponsible on their part. Here in Hungary, however, we try to help all families: the amount of HUF 181 thousand up to the average consumption level is higher in terms of income than in any other country of the European Union. The EU has therefore increased the trouble with sanctions, but has left the countries alone [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] However, the Hungarian families receive the biggest support in terms of proportion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-10-03-39	Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; János Bencze, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Antal Csárdi, LMP; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Lajos Lőcsei, Momentum; Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; Ferenc Dávid, DK; László Földi, KDNP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2022-10-03-40	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I declare that, pursuant to Article 6 (2) of the Fundamental Law, the Government has submitted a proposal for a regulation of the rules, in which it proposed that, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. T/706. In the event of the adoption of bill No.1, the National Assembly shall initiate an examination of the compliance of the law with the Basic Law at the Constitutional Court. The petitioner initiated that the agenda of the Parliament meeting on 3-4-5 October and 10 October 2022 be added to the discussion and decision on the proposed norm control and that the proposed norm control should be discussed and decided on Tuesday, 4 October 2022, following the speeches before the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, I'd like to inform you that I've issued the proposed norm control to the Legislative Committee. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments to the proposed regulation within two hours of the final vote on the bill. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the proposal on the agenda presented by the MSZP Group was proposed to supplement the resolution House Rule 15. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-41/453-1/2022. President's decision. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of the Parliament has maintained the decision of the Speaker of the House. [[14.40]] Although Mr Bertalan Tóth has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament, in accordance with the motion. [[Bence Rétvári: He's not here either! He must be in the shadows.]] to maintain in its scope the number of presidential decisions cited above. Please, now use the voting machine... [[To Zoltán Vajda:]] Congressman, don't point at me, please. I need you to pull yourself together, okay? Act like you're in a National Assembly. [[Zoltán Vajda: I whispered to my colleague during the vote, I showed him, not to you!]] Thank you very much, I didn't say anything, but I warned you because I noticed you were losing control. [[Zoltán Vajda, as he turns his thumb up and down, misinterpreted my gesture, Mr. President.]] Yeah, that's right, as you say, but I didn't say anything. So, with all due respect, once again, I am ordering the vote again. Please vote on the question I just asked you. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has maintained the President's decision with 117 votes in favour, 39 votes against and no abstentions, and therefore no decision on the proposal to supplement the agenda will be taken. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 14.41 14.52) President: István Jakab Note: Dezső Believer)
u2022-10-03-41	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. I'm asking for your understanding of a slightly longer break. Dear Parliament, In order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/706. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-03-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 29 September 2022 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. T/706. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, no votes against and 9 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is an element of the corrections made to the so-called Conditionality Procedure on the general framework for protecting the EU budget, which has been agreed with the Commission in detail. The proposed regulation has no precedent, it introduces a completely new mechanism of procedure in the history of domestic legislation, which is unknown to date in Hungarian criminal proceedings. The bill basically contains two mechanisms. The first part of the new procedure involves a form of prosecution. The essence of the regulation is a process of correction of charges, which can essentially be initiated by anyone in order to reach a judicial decision on the issue of guilt. The point of the new special procedure is that, in the final case, it is possible to force the effective conduct of the investigation by means of a judicial procedure independent of the prosecution and, ultimately, to take a final position on the issue of criminal liability on the ground of a criminal offence committed by the originator. In this sense, this new system is much similar to the additional private procedure, which gives the victim the same opportunity. I would also like to point out that the proposal introduces a category of high-level crime relating to the exercise of public authority or the management of public wealth. The Legislative Committee has adopted an amendment to the proposal containing the necessary amendments for the successful completion of the conditioning procedure. In view of all this, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Secretary of State says yes. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that a total period of 15 minutes is available for speaking in the debate and presenting a possible closing phrase. Here's to you, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-03-44	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to start the debate on the Commission's reports and the summarised amendment proposal by briefly reflecting on the professional comments made during the general debate on the bill. Mr Zoltán Vajda MSZP, Member, complained that the bill provides for compulsory legal representation during the procedure. We would like to indicate to the Member that this is also the case in the case of an additional private procedure, because the professional element must be ensured in such procedural situations when the prosecution, the investigating authority, is not involved. Congressman also complained that the citizen had to finance the procedure from his own pocket. I would like to point out that, on the one hand, the relevant section is amended by the summarised amendment because, at the judicial stage, the person making the motion for revision may already apply for a discount. On the other hand, let me point out that this is not a real restriction, under the law on legal aid, it is only for a protective lawyer whose monthly income is below HUF 23 500. It is clear, therefore, that large masses would not be entitled to do so in the proceedings in question, and, in any case, if we were to give the patron the opportunity to apply for a lawyer for at least two months, the procedure would necessarily drag on for more months. It is also interesting, Mr President, to note that if the initiativer accidentally fails to meet the deadline laid down by law, because, for example, he is sick, he cannot justify the omission. However, this is unfortunately a necessary element of the proposal, because if you think more about it, because there may be ten million of our fellow citizens who have submitted a motion for revision, if there were room for a certificate, the closure of the procedure would be completely uncertain. According to Congressman, who wants to attack a resolution on the basis of the proposal, he must be extremely observant, since he must know the case number, because the average citizen can only find what the decision has been made on the basis of the number of cases. I would like to point out that the summarised amendment will increase the period of publication from 15 days to one month, and not an extract, but a decision will have to be published. And the idea that you can only look for it by case number simply doesn't hold up. To the Member, Rule 817/B. I recommend a more thorough study. Several of my opposition fellow Members, without making any substantive, concrete proposals, have generally criticised the proposal and described it as overcomplicated; in other cases, the proposal has been called our manpower. However, it has to be seen that thousands of cases of corruption will be affected. These are cases where no criminal offence has been committed in the opinion of the Authority. Built-in warranty elements ensure the presumption of innocence, the right to good repute and the protection of personal data. In addition to these warranty requirements, the procedure is still operational, and cases may be brought before the court in the case of reasoned motions. It would be quite counterproductive if, in the thousands of potential cases, anyone could be brought to justice without any warranty, so that his innocence would be revealed at the end of a multi-annual process. [[15.00]] Now allow me to move on to presenting the most important changes to the TAB amendment tabled to the bill. First of all, the structure of the procedure changes. In the original version, if the proceedings had been terminated, it would have been necessary for the investigating judge to decide whether the termination was unlawful or unfounded. The TAB amendment removed the second investigative judge's decision from the draft, so it is only necessary to contact an investigative judge once, after the second termination, to file an indictment without a judicial decision. Originally, because of the greater protection of personal data, the decision to terminate the procedure should have been published an extract. I have just made it clear that the anonymous decision has now been published in the proposal. The proposal establishes a so-called stepwise procedure. This is included in the proposal at the express request of the European Commission, which, in the first instance, gives the complainant and the victim the opportunity to submit a motion for revision. This means that, following the rejection of the complaint or the notification of the decision to terminate the procedure to them, these procedural participants will be granted one month to submit a motion for revision. This therefore gives a kind of priority to this group of procedural participants, i.e. if they submit a motion for revision, then there is no other person outside the procedure who is not able to exercise override or later submit an indictment. The second element of the stepwise procedure is that if the complainant and the victim do not submit a motion for review, the proposal also provides for the possibility of action for those who are not involved in the procedure. The next change, incorporated in the proposal by the TAB amendment, is that the scope of the proposal will be extended, i.e. the scope of the crime which, according to the bill, would be subject to such a special procedure. The minor cases of bribery and its acceptance would not have originally been subject to the scope, but they were eventually excluded from the scope of the special procedure for all such offences. Similarly, all cases of criminal offences in the procurement and concession procedure of an agreement restricting competition will be subject to the new special procedure. There has been an increase in the number of persons entitled to initiate proceedings, and legal persons may act as indicated in the amendment. Originally, only natural persons would have been entitled to initiate proceedings in order to justify the personal nature of the charge. This has changed by allowing legal persons to act on the basis of the draft in accordance with the new procedure. However, it is important that, in line with the constitutional requirements laid down by the Constitutional Court for the enforcement of the prosecution's prosecution, the proposal does not allow the State or public authorities to act under the rules of the proposed procedure. This exclusion rule applies even if these organisations have been involved in the proceedings as reporters or victims. The deadline for submission has been extended, as I have already mentioned, the TAB amendment increases the deadline of 15 days to one month. The discount may also be requested in court proceedings. On the basis of the TAB amendment, a reduction in costs, i.e. the secondment of a protective lawyer, may be requested at the judicial stage. A further amendment is that a conditional prosecutor's suspension is excluded for certain offences. On the basis of the TAB amendment, the application of the conditional prosecutor's suspension in proceedings for certain offences subject to a separate procedure has been excluded, so that the determining authority cannot avail itself of this procedural option. However, this exclusion clause only applies to two offences, namely corruption offences committed in connection with a specific procurement procedure and, criminal offences in a procurement and concession procedure in an agreement restricting competition. Another change, according to the amendment, was that the designation of legal persons in the anonymous decision would not be anonymised. In particular, at the request of the European Commission, only data of natural persons will be anonymised in published anonymised decisions, but not data of legal persons. Finally, an appeal against the decision of the Court of Justice on reasonable grounds of suspicion will be possible. Originally, in court proceedings, it was not possible for the person lodging the indictment to appeal against the court's negative decision. This possibility of appeal shall be opened with the TAB amendment if the court decides not to take a decision when examining the merits of the indictment. Dear House, So that's all I wanted to say to you about the legislative committee's amendments. I urge you, together with the legislative committee's amendments, to support this proposal. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-45	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the State Secretary that he has a five-minute time frame for further debate, speech and closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Sebian-Petrovsk, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why we are sitting here and discussing the bill before us is that, tomorrow and later, we are discussing further legislative proposals, which the government has submitted urgently, because the Orbán government is in trouble. Not a little, I'd say. We can list what happened in this country for 12 years. They destroyed democracy, dismantled the rule of law, shredded newspapers, radios, or indirectly bought the media with public money, and abolished the freedom of the press. The fidesz cadres took over the courts, the prosecutors, the authorities, the offices. And all so that they can steal a great deal directly or indirectly through their oligarchs. They've also stolen quantities that we can't even begin to comprehend. They also stole EU money and stole domestic money, they weren't picky about it. But now, ladies and gentlemen, the moment has come when a grain of sand has come into this otherwise well-educated criminal organization machine. This grain of sand, a grain of sand from your point of view, is a good grain of sand, the European Union, at almost every level of it, right now the European Commission is the most. The Commission says that if Hungary does not meet certain conditions or conditions, it will not receive any money. We are talking about conditions that we should not really talk about, because it is a fundamental component of all democratic operations, of all democracies, but let us mention that the Commission has done the same. We should respond to a democratic media situation, an independent court and prosecutor's office in this country, and, for example, that the government does not steal people's money. I understand that these are terrible hard conditions for this government, I understand that these are difficult to meet with the Orbán government, but we now have such a government; there will be others. But what can this government do now? What are you doing? Are you doing this to make it impartial, say, the public media, and decide to do so? For example, do you break down the Mészáros media empire of over 500 press products, including various printed and online products? Or instead of political, will he be a professional leader for either the prosecution or the Mansion? No. That is not what the honourable government does, but wants to play the good guy to the Commission so that he can continue to be a bad guy. That is why you are submitting fake billings like the one we have here, and what we are going to discuss within the walls of this House in the next few days. I am right to say that these are fake bill proposals, because this is suitable for everything, but not for the country to be democratic again. This proposal pretends that citizens will now have more opportunities to prosecute corruption, but we know that we see it in the proposal that, in fact, the prosecution led by Péter Polt will continue to have the opportunity to stop initiatives of this type. [[15.10]] In addition, in the amendment tabled last week in the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which was referred to earlier by the honourable Members of the Fidesz Parliament and the representative of the Government, they further softened these not-so-hard proposals, such as bribery of the office, forced measures affecting property were removed from the proposal to mention only these two. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs will take his place in the notary seat.]] Overall, this proposal, which is before us, is even softer than the original proposal, and it will be even more difficult to start this procedure, but it will be easier to eliminate it at the end. DK will not vote for this. We do not want the appearance of the rule of law or the appearance of independent justice or the appearance of the fight against corruption in this country, but we want real independent justice, a real rule of law and a real fight against corruption; this is not what the government wants, of course, against its interests. DK has already presented last week the package of laws that will lead in the right direction, in the direction that the Commission would otherwise expect Hungary to take in the right direction. I propose to my honourable fellow Members, to use this package of laws, perhaps to support it and to accept it here, within the walls of the House. The first step is to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. DK is among the first to say this, and we have continued to do so, and I suggest that the government consider the same. The government's overall proposal therefore serves only the purpose of providing Brussels with what Brussels is asking to do, so that the government will do everything Brussels expects of this country, and only to bring EU funds into this country, so that Fidesz can continue to steal it in its unchanged form, with an unchanged mechanism. The DK's answer to that is no, no, no. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-03-47	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-48	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Répássy, State Secretary, by name, for not all of the arguments I made in the debate last Monday, which ended in the night, to two or three, and perhaps to be specific. I find this commendable, even if it was a week late; let's say I was here on Monday night, and I expected him to respond then, but I am glad that he did so now. As I understand it, one of the statements I made was factually wrong, factually wrong, so I apologize and thank you for putting me in the right place. At the same time, my general statement on either this law or the entire package of laws has not changed, and otherwise, but I would like to repeat the arguments that we have discussed, because I think it is important to emphasise this. The starting point is that you've been fighting, fighting with the European Commission for a year, going to war. The war that you are talking about is not the cause of our economic difficulties, but the war that you, as you say, are having with Brussels. It is simply your aim, of course, that we should be able to obtain the development resources due to Hungary in this EU budget cycle, which have so far been frozen. We share this goal, of course, and we believe that these resources are for Hungary, and must arrive, but since the initial vehemential negotiations, the establishment of the new government will continue in a more diplomatic tone, which, in my view, is not surprising in the light of the hardening global economy and energy environment. In fact, the Prime Minister even brought a special minister into the government in the name of Tibor Navracsics, whose main task is to bring the agreement to an end. In the meantime, the European Commission is calling for more and more tough action against Hungary compared to recent decades; or let me be clear: not against Hungary, but against your government, you. The latest step is to withdraw the HUF 3000 billion. The European Union Parliament has also shown similar hardness. In his latest report, 73.5 percent of the Members who cast the vote stated that Hungary is not a state of law, but an election autocracy. These are the circumstances that need to be taken into account when examining the content of the bill in general or of this specific bill. The question is not only its content, but also its ability to improve the state of the rule of law in Hungary. However, we believe that only a negative answer can be given. In the context of the specific draft law, I would like to maintain my statement or assessment that you can already see from the outline of the procedure, which you have otherwise made very correct, and thank you once again for the fact that this is still an extremely complicated, administrative barrier to the petitioner, I will continue to maintain, an unwarranted freak that you are creating here. To the superficial reader or to the person who, let's say, is less familiar with Hungarian relations, it may seem to be in a very circumstantial way, but this is in line with the requirements of the European Commission. However, the reality is that it is a bluff; bluff, because in cases of corruption there will be no meaningful progress in the future. The new procedure makes every effort to ensure that the author of the motion is lost in a bureaucratic maze, even threatened with financial burdens, and the prosecution's organisation has not denied you, it is hierarchic, and as far as Péter Polt is leading it, there will be no progress in politically sensitive matters. The Curia has also been occupied, and with questionable judicial appointments, with the introduction of a limited precedent system, the judicial authority is increasingly being shredded by the NER. Gergely Gulyás, their minister, said that the Hungarian judges could slowly be independent of themselves, but not of Fidesz. So overall: thank you once again for the specific clarification, the meaningful reaction, the correction of a mistake on the subject, but I will maintain my overall assessment on behalf of my faction. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-49	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you if you would like to speak with one of my fellow Members. [[No one's reporting.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he would like to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-10-03-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, On 18 September, a difficult but extremely constructive conciliation process between the Hungarian government and the European Commission was completed. The Commission concluded that the 17 proposals for measures submitted by the Government will adequately address the concerns that led to the opening of the conditioning procedure. The government fulfils its commitments, the conditionality procedure can be completed before the end of the year, and Hungary can move to 2023 without loss of funds. On the one hand, Hungary and the Hungarian people must have access to the funds they deserve, on the other hand, we do not allow those corner points, and we do not compromise without principle on issues on which the Hungarian people have already taken a firm stand in the elections and referendums in April and in previous national consultations. The Hungarian government continues to protect children, reject illegal migration, and resist any reckless and unreasonable sanctions policy that hit Europe most and not the one against whom sanctions have been imposed. On behalf of the Democratic Coalition, László Sebian-Petrovszki said three no to the proposal, Zoltán Vajda, representative of the MSZP called the proposal a bluff. Dear House, Despite the previous promise of the Left, it does not support the agreement between the Commission and Hungary, and it continues to work to prevent us from receiving EU funds. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Don't steal!]] EU development funds are not charity donations, they are for Hungary, they are for Hungarian people, but for 12 years the left has been constantly striving to prepare decisions in the EU to reduce Hungarian development resources or not to have access to them at all. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Opponents, I ask that when you vote on this proposal, on these laws, you think that you are not doing the government a favor, but a favor to your country. Please act accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-51	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, On the basis of our adopted agenda and given the time-frames under consideration, we have determined the need for a quorum from at least 15 minutes to 35 minutes, so the decision will take place at 15:35. I'll take a break for 15 hours and 35 minutes. Thank you for your understanding. (Recess: 15.20-15.35) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-10-03-52	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work with a decision. Dear Parliament, In order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings follows. T/706. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our previous decision, the bill will be discussed in an urgent hearing by the Parliament. T/706/8. T/706/9 and T/706/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/706/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 12 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/706/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes [footnoteRef:1], 7 votes against and 14 abstentions. [ 1: James Peter] [[independent]] mistakenly pressed the "yes" button, although he wanted to vote no. ] Dear Parliament, I would remind you that it is possible to submit proposals for amendments to the proposed standard control for the adopted law within two hours of the final vote, i.e. 17 hours 37 minutes. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now, at 3:37 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[Several Members leave the room. It's a lot of noise.]] (Recess: 15.37-15.39) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-10-03-53	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, László Kordás, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. When do you intend to raise the Hungarian minimum wage to the level of the EU directive? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, Prime Minister László Palkovics, Minister of Technology and Industry, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary, she responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-03-54	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The European Parliament has adopted the European minimum wage. This is a historic moment and a personal success for the Shadow Government Prime Minister, Klára Dobrev. The Prime Minister of the Shadow Government, Klára Dobrev, had the most important promise of introducing a proposal for a European minimum wage in Hungary in 2019 at the elections to the European Union. Since then, he has spent a lot of hours working on this task, many consultations and negotiations, and we have come to the moment when we see that the European Parliament has adopted the European minimum wage proposal. The adoption of the EU minimum wage is key to strengthening social rights and sends an important message to all workers who work hard but earn little. The decision of the European Parliament means that, like other EU countries, the Hungarian government must introduce the EU minimum wage regulation, which will significantly increase the Hungarian minimum wage. What does that mean this year? This year, for example, the minimum wage would be at least HUF 30,000 higher than without this regulation. The European minimum wage regulation will work in practice by agreeing with the social partners on the indicators to which the negotiating fund will be linked. In this, the government has only minimal room for manoeuvre and the possibility of deviation. [[15.40]] We want, or want, at least 50 percent of the Hungarian minimum wage and 60 percent of the median wage, in accordance with the European minimum wage regulation. This would mean that the minimum wage would now be 30,000 HUF net higher. This decision also helps the Hungarian people to see that they are no less valuable than Europeans, and their work is no less valuable than that of other Europeans. The tens of thousands of forints per month, with which the Orbán government will have to raise the minimum wage, will also help the general wage increase, will be a little easier to be a teacher, a social worker and everyone who has been pushed by the Orbán government to the brink of being and not being. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to tell you that the 30,000 forints that are not being given to these people this year would significantly help in this situation with drastic price increases, whether we are thinking of raising prices or raising food prices, which can be seen every day. That is why I ask you: when do you intend to start with the social partners? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the negotiation, and when will the EU minimum wage be introduced in accordance with the rules? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-03-55	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-56	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to express my thoughts on the fact that you have such strange feelings when you give me such a question about workers, employment and the minimum wage, because you may have a governance that, I think, was not exactly favourable for Hungarian workers between 2002 and 2010. You also participated in this work as a political secretary of state between 2004 and 2006. Of course, I finally understand the speech, because at present it is speaking as a shadow minister for wages and labour. Please allow some clarification on the directive. Contrary to the false news on the left, the directive did not do so either at the time of its publication or before its adoption, nor could it, in the absence of a legal basis, make it compulsory for Member States to define the minimum wage on the basis of a single formula. Member States should guarantee that their minimum wage allows workers to live a decent life, taking into account living costs and average pay levels. The directive does not set an EU minimum wage, but establishes a framework in which it lays down basic guidelines and minimum requirements for Member States to determine the minimum wage, which Hungary has been applying for a long time. By the way, the 20 percent increase in 2022 was the largest in the European Union, and I have to say, if we think about who was opposed to minimum wage increases, we clearly think of you. And the Fidesz government was already in favour of raising the minimum wage between 98 and 2002. Let me back that up with some data. The minimum wage in Hungary was HUF 19 500 in 98, in the last year of the first Orbán government, in 2002 it was HUF 50,000. I think that they also expressed that this is fundamentally an incredible mistake, and that it will have a very bad impact on the Hungarian economy if we increase the minimum wage to this extent. This is what they did, as between 2002 and 2010, the left raised the minimum wage by only HUF 23 500. In 2010, the minimum wage was 73,500 forints, but by 22 the minimum wage rose to 200,000 forints. [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks.]] I'll thank you very much if you'll listen to me, because I think I'm very polite, too. The guaranteed minimum wage is 260,000 forints at present, i.e. thanks to the continuous wage increase of the Orbán governments, the minimum wage is already higher than the average wage during your left-wing governance. In July 22, the average gross earnings of full-time employees amounted to HUF 500,000 and the average net earnings calculated in terms of discounts were HUF 344 700. It is also part of the facts that unemployment has steadily increased during left-wing governance, and by 2010 it was almost 12 per cent, and in 22 unemployment was 3.5 per cent, this summer more than 4.7 million people worked in Hungary, which has been a record since the regime change. I would like to ask you to support these measures of the government on employment policy, because I think that the Hungarian people have learned who they can count on in these times. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-57	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-58	Dear Secretary of State, He started by saying that you have strange feelings. I also have strange feelings about your answer, since you have not answered my question. I asked when the negotiations with the social partners would start with the introduction of minimum wage rules in line with EU legislation. You didn't answer that. The other is that you claim that a formula would be formulated in this proposal. It is not a formula, it should be a negotiation with employers and trade unions, and you should agree on a methodology that is the basis for negotiation and where minimum wage negotiations will start. You didn't do that. About a year and a half ago, the Hungarian Trade Union Association, the LIGA Trade Unions and the National Association of Workers' Councils put a proposal on the government's table, which they were not even willing to put on the agenda. I apologize for that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But I can't accept your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-03-59	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth and Dezső Believing, representatives of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. When do they admit that it was a mistake to throw the local governments out of the protected care? What help does it provide to municipalities because of energy prices that are rising many times? It's an address. The word belongs to a gullible Congressman Dezső. [[15.50]]
u2022-10-03-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Due to the failed policy of the government, Hungary is on the verge of an unprecedented crisis with brutal wealth, double-digit inflation, dew-weak forints, energy-price explosions and local governments close to bankruptcy. The country's vitality is deteriorating unbridled. The government's been telling us all year that they didn't touch the rent reduction, and now we know that's what it was. The inhumane increase in electricity prices and gas prices, despite the fidesz vows, has not only put families in an unsolvable position, local governments serving the population and the crèches, kindergartens, clinics, social services, libraries, theatres, swimming pools and museums that they maintain are also in an hopeless situation. The government has thrown out the municipalities from among the beneficiaries of protected supply, i.e. universal supply of natural gas and electricity, and this is the result of the increase in district heating. Many mayors have already indicated that some of their energy costs are expected to be up to 5-15 times, but we have heard that they may be up to 26 times higher. There is no saving or responsible farming that can compensate for such an increase. This is spoken of not only by opposition, but also by pro-government city leaders. The problem occurs everywhere, regardless of the city leaders' position or talent, and becomes unmanageable without help. Our settlements are rushing into bankruptcy. We need resistops in the municipalities, not fidesz restrictions. We have initiated that municipalities should be entitled to universal supply of natural gas and electricity, so that they will not be exposed to the profit of gas and electricity traders, and will have access to gas and electricity at official prices. We also reiterated in our bill that the VAT rate for these services should be reduced from 27 to 5 percent. This happens when 12 forints of Paks electricity is passed on to municipalities for 462 HUF, i.e. 38 times the profit, and the state MVM offers 1610 HUF in cubic metres for gas to several municipalities, while the price of natural gas has now fallen below 800 HUF. Stop your profiteering! I am asking the Secretary of State how the government is helping the municipalities because of the energy prices that are rising many times. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-10-03-61	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With regard to the situation of the municipalities, I would like to remind you that, in the vicinity of 2009-2010, the Hungarian municipal system was on the verge of collapse, the tasks continued to increase, while the funds were constantly being taken away and, in practice, under your governance in MSZP, the debt of the municipalities was programmed between 2002 and 2010. According to the then State Audit Office's report, between 2006 and 2009, left-wing governments withdrew some HUF 3000 billion from the municipal system. Local governments took out some HUF 1300 billion of loans and made up some 600-700 billion of assets and assets. After 2010, the government broke up with its policy of increasing your burden but deleveraging resources, consolidated the municipalities and practically settled the debt of HUF 1400 billion, took over the loans, and reopened their operations with a rational division of tasks. I believe that you, as deputy mayor of the Angel Land, could have protested at that time what happened to the municipalities before 2010. Meanwhile, you have raised the rent 15 times, which, I think, has obviously imposed incredible burdens not only on the municipalities but also on the Hungarian families. Support for municipalities will continue next year. Like last year, the government is reimbursing the government's loss of business tax revenue for municipalities again this year. At the end of 2020 we have implemented a significant tax reduction to support small businesses in a difficult situation due to the crisis caused by the Crown Virus and to protect jobs. For settlements under 25,000 people, the government automatically pays for the total loss and compensates the larger cities for their tax capacity. The government also provided a total of HUF 23 billion in support to 32 settlements over 25 thousand in 2021. The opposition-led municipalities received a total of HUF 11.4 billion, while the pro-government authorities received HUF 11.3 billion. All Hungarian settlements can continue to count on the national government. It was decided that my fellow Member, György Balla, will coordinate negotiations with the municipalities with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Technology and Industry as ministerial commissioner. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, because of the war in Ukraine and the sanctions that have failed, there is an extremely difficult situation throughout Europe, which also affects the energy sector to a very large extent. As a result, from June 2022 the price of natural gas doubled in one month and then tripled in another month. The same process has taken place in the case of electricity. Electricity prices in Europe are six or seven times higher than in the US, and gas prices are multiplied ten times, but oil prices are also higher. inflation is rising, Europe is under threat of energy shortages and crises, the war is going on and it seems that Europe has become poorer and Russia is richer, because Russia has received EUR 158 billion in revenue, of which 85 billion has been paid by EU citizens. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to ask the Member to support the government measures taken in the context of ensuring Hungarian energy supply and the war situation and the energy crisis. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-03-63	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-64	Dear Secretary of State, As I understand it, he replied that our fellow Member Balla will talk to the municipalities as a government mandate. There are 3,200 municipalities. I suspect that by the time this is over, my fellow Member, they will probably be bankrupt by now. So I don't think that's the answer. What I'm talking about is ultimately the situation of families. Families aren't safe today. Parents are at risk of unemployment. The children are not safe, because if it really happens in the district heat you mentioned, they won't be safe in the nursery or kindergarten, and they haven't been in the schools. So what I'm talking about is the terror of mass poverty, and you've been making a lot of noise. I can't accept the answer. [[Applause from the ranks of MSZP, DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-10-03-65	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Anna Russian and Szabolcs Szabó, representatives of Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. What do you intend to do to reduce disproportionate air traffic noise in the southern part of Budapest? It's an address. It's for Congresswoman Anna of Russia.
u2022-10-03-66	Madam Secretary! I would like to present you with a problem that seriously affects our constituency, Csepel and Soroksár, Budafok-Tétény and NewBuda. The heavy noise from air traffic has already affected the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of people who live here to such an extent as to call for an urgent and immediate solution. The main causes of the noise load lead back to the fact that, on the one hand, a significant part of the take-off flights from Budapest's international airport are driven through South Budapest, regardless of where their destination is, and the loudest part of the flight, the take-off phase, is what happens over the southern Budapest areas. In addition, new four - drive cargo planes have appeared in recent times, with noises even higher than usual. That the problem is becoming more serious is supported by a lot of things. One is that both Szabolcs Szabó, Endre Tóth and myself as individual Members are receiving more complaints both personally and in writing and on the phone. Recently, the citizens of South Budapest have initiated the collection of signatures to draw the government's attention to the seriousness of the case, and, of course, our own experience confirms that the situation is becoming increasingly unsustainable. [[16.00]] If you haven't been to southern Budape lately and you haven't heard the noise pressure of the take-off aircraft, and what unbearable conditions this means for hundreds of thousands of people living here, please come, we'd be very happy to see you on a field trip. The decision of the municipalities of Csepel, Budafok-Tétény and Newbuda shows that this is a case beyond the parties, since all three municipalities, regardless of whether they have opposition or Fidesz leadership, have supported the signature collection action of the citizens of South Budapest. They have turned to HungaroControl, the airport operator, but they have all rejected their requests, more precisely: they have been swept off the table. So the residents look at the government, look at you and cry out for help. My question to you is, therefore, what is the Ministry's plan, a set of concrete steps to reduce the noise burden that has become unbearable, so that the citizens of South Budapest can live in normal conditions again. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the representatives of Momentum.]]
u2022-10-03-67	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When we talk about the Liszt Ferenc International Airport in Budapest and its effects on our environment, it is important to stress, first of all, that the airport was built more than seventy years ago. In recent decades, the airport's environment has been integrated and air traffic has increased enormously. I'm guessing that Congresswoman has already taken an airplane from Budapest or Budapest. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the location and physical characteristics of the airport are very limited and, unfortunately, significantly reduce the possibilities for further substantial noise reduction. Unfortunately, there is no more coherent uninhabited area in the area of the airport above which the aircraft can approach or leave the airport's runway, either in the direction of Budapest, Vecsés, Üllő, Monor. The airport's take-off and landing procedures last changed in 2018, they were introduced, HungaroControl conducted several public-interest and noise analysis studies, agreed with professional organisations. Overall, the new procedures have brought about a positive change in noise load in the areas concerned. The number of districts affected by noise in Budapest has clearly decreased and is also a clear step forward for people living in your constituency, Csepel, Soroksora and NewBuda. The government has taken and is taking a number of measures to reduce noise pollution. The most important regulator for Liszt Ferenc Airport is the decision to designate a protection zone and the environmental operating licence, which is continuously monitored by the aviation and environmental authorities. On the basis of the measurement data, the noise load in residential areas around the aerodrome does not exceed the limit laid down in the relevant Regulation. In the districts far away from the airport, the noise load is also below the limit, as the aircraft are already moving much higher. All environmental legislation relating to the operation of the airport is fulfilled and the airport is legally operating. From 2010 onwards, the government has taken further measures to reduce the noise burden on the population, and I would like to mention some examples. A Windowproofing programme has been launched, introducing a change in flight procedures in 2018, a complete noise monitoring system has been renewed in 2020 and a real-time flight tracking system has been launched for the general public, showing the movement of flights and the results of noise measurement points. From 2021 night drives were banned at the airport, the night traffic at the airport was modified to ensure that the people living in Budapest were free from the harmful noise effects of air transport during their sleep. From the summer of 2021, the soundproofing of public education institutions and other renovations and modernisations began to be supported in the schools and kindergartens concerned. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) We are sure to agree that the operation of Liszt Ferenc Airport is of great importance both from an economic and social point of view, as it contributes to increasing the competitiveness of the country, to the functioning of the economy and tourism, and directly provides thousands of jobs and serves the interests of the Hungarian people. Over the past 12 years, the government has asked the air transport professional organisations to make noise noise affect as few people as possible in the area of airports in Hungary. The government will continue to work to spare people living in critical places from harmful noise effects. And I'm asking you not to turn aviation professional issues into political matters. Thank you very much for your support. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask the Member to accept the Secretary of State's reply, since two of them have submitted the interpellation. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I can't accept the answer. The voters who live with us, the Fidesz people, and the Fidesz mayors, too, could only accept the answer that until we spread the traffic, this is not acceptable. The reason why fewer people and districts are affected by noise is because they're putting traffic on us. It's clear from the data, you just have to look at the maps. She says, Madam Secretary, they're measuring noise. There are six installed noise meters near the airport, in South Pest, in South Buda there is no such noise measurement. And that they're insulation the windows, of course, near the airport. We don't have that. The machines pass above us, and the two-thirds, more like three-quarters of them above the affected southern districts of Budapest. This is the problem, and this has nothing to do with any party political struggle, as the government and body of representatives of the three districts support this. So, please, let's just get this over with. I will not accept the answer until we have a positive approach to this. [[Applause for the representatives of Momentum.]]
u2022-10-03-71	The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: "We need a legal guarantee that water does not come into private hands! It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, Prime Minister László Palkovics, Minister of Technology and Industry, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-03-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The water utility network is the system that provides us all with one of the most basic needs, water. What you have done over the last few weeks and months in connection with water utility services has been an example of our history, it has been called a miscarriage. It was bought into state property free of charge from almost all municipalities. They sent a letter to the municipalities containing an offer that could not be rejected, which, by the way, is a blank cheque for the future. I am saying that they have made an offer that cannot be rejected, because these providers have been indebted by their systematic policy of destroying them for the last ten years, and the leaders of the settlements have been forced to decide that they want to continue to provide their citizens with drinking water and canal services, so they will give it up, or they will hand it over to the state, with the exception of cities with major county rights and the capital, who can continue to provide this system independently in the future, which has raised doubts for the rest of them, so they have given it to the state instead. So they're indebted to you? Yeah. This is thanks, as I said, to the government policy of the last ten years, as the lack of development has led to this, the lack of resources, the withdrawal of resources, the imposition of the utility tax, which has continuously increased their burden since 2012, in the last ten years, but has not received any compensation either from the municipalities or from these service providers. I had a bill a year and a half ago about how we could reduce these burdens. You voted against that. But why am I saying this is a blank check? That's because it doesn't contain guarantees. It does not provide guarantees that, thanks to centralisation and nationalisation, there will be redundancies, as this may come from centralisation, it will sell property, offices, land, and in all or part of the rest, it has planned to give these water utility providers into private hands or concessions, and the government plans to do what it has already done with electricity and gas, namely that there is a reduced price set by state to a certain limit, and then prices can be released. [[16.10]] And what municipalities are affected by this? Every city council. Since all municipalities, including all Hungarian citizens. Madam Secretary, this is not a party policy, it is a matter of national strategy. Which is why I ask you with respect that you can, through you, the government can guarantee that the water and everything that is attached to it will not be sold, it will not be placed in private hands, it will not be granted a concession, because water cannot be sold. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-03-73	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-74	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I see you've missed my previous response to the consolidation of the municipality. I think we can certainly agree that before 2010, the municipalities were in an incredibly bad state, completely indebted, left no resources, received more and more tasks, and in such a situation, this government undertook to consolidate them and supported their debt by HUF 1400 billion. So that's where we start. Moreover, on your question, an interpellation on water utility services was made just a week ago, on which I cannot give you much new substantive information, but I would like to point out the point once again. I would like to remind you that in 2010 the government did not inherit a good situation in the water utility sector, and since the change of regime, the renovations of the pipeline and technology have unfortunately been largely cancelled, and have fallen behind. Therefore, the modernisation of networks is the most important task of the water utility sector. While nearly 400 organisations provided drinking water and sanitation services in Hungary in 2010, this fell to 40 by 2020. Due to the government's efforts over the past decade, economies of scale and security of supply have been achieved, and in November 2020, National Waterworks Ltd. was established. The congressman spoke of a lack of legal guarantees. It is likely that the 2011 CCIX on water utility services has been overlooked. Law on the obligation and right of the State or of the local government to provide the public drinking water supply and the discharge of water utilities in connection with the drainage and cleaning of public works. Therefore, the law states that the water utility can only be owned by the State or local government. In addition, the legislation provides for the possibility for municipalities, if they cannot or do not wish to comply with their supply obligations, to transfer the liability and the associated water utility assets and the ownership of the service company voluntarily to the Hungarian State free of charge. On this basis, it was possible for the relevant municipalities and water utility providers to participate in the National Waterworks Ltd. in a coordinated integration process. In autumn 2022, the Government shall grant State aid to water utility providers participating in the integration programme to maintain security of supply up to their losses in 2022. It should also be remembered that, at the end of 2020, we provided nearly HUF 4 billion of state aid to loss-making local government-owned water utility providers through the owner's municipalities in order to avoid economic inability. If I were Mr President, I think that I would be concerned about national wealth if we thought about the previous left-wing leadership, because then they practically squandered public property, privatised nearly 200 public companies, and in 2010, we included in the Fundamental Law the responsible management of state assets, and the squandered companies were bought back by the national government. We have again increased the share of Hungarian ownership over 50 percent in the strategic sectors, and since 2010, state wealth has increased by 67 percent. In view of this, I ask the Member to accept my reply. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-03-75	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the reply of the Secretary of State. He said there were legal guarantees. Well, over the past 12 years, we could mention a number of areas for which there were theoretically legal guarantees, and then, by the way, laws that could then be passed on to concessions or private property were cheated in one day. Madam State Secretary, when motorways were given a concession in private hands, when universities were outsourced to private foundations, that was not a game either. Water, on the other hand, is a completely different area. That's our element of existence. Jobbik will therefore submit a proposal for a decision to respond to the guarantees which I have challenged in my previous speech. This will include ensuring that water and related services are not sold to Hungarian or foreign businesses, which cannot be given into concessions, especially not encrypted. I ask you to support this bill. Soon it will come out of the bag, whether or not you side with him.
u2022-10-03-77	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, How many school abuses must take place in order for the government to act? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-03-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, 2022. 09. On the 25th, an 11-year-old girl threw herself in front of a train. As it turned out later, he was a victim of school abuse. His schoolmates harassed him about his appearance, asked for help, including his family, but they didn't get it. In Hungary, school abuse is an extremely serious problem, almost one in four children report that they have suffered abuse and harassment in their educational institution in the last month. Despite the fact that hundreds of thousands of children suffer every day, the Hungarian state seems helpless. There is no adequate warning system to protect these children. We cannot allow our children to live abused or, at worst, put an end to their own lives in pain. When will the honourable government finally act and take action that actually serves the children's interests? We shape the vision of our children, and children must learn in kindergarten and lower school to respect and help each other. It is time to act effectively and decisively against school abuse and protect and protect our children, as the Government of Hungary has always said at word level. If you need help with this work, you can always count on my support for a good purpose. In a country that is truly family-friendly, children should return from kindergarten, school with useful knowledge and many experiences. And at home, they should be raised in love and humanity, and the laws should provide for this childhood. The serious problems of child protection in Hungary must be solved. I hope we agree that this is a problem above the parties, which requires an immediate solution. Unfortunately, your proposals so far are not a real solution. The system of school guards has been introduced, but this system will not and will not be able to fulfill the expectations attached to it. In contrast, in the Dialogue, we would like to see a functioning child protection warning system finally in place, and the government would help contemporary groups and educators with sensitive training. Together with these, it is essential that effective legislation to protect children is put in place. Dear fellow Members, Is that how you think the country of families works? So I ask you, how many tragic school abuses do we have to do to get the government to do something? Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from the dialogue.]]
u2022-10-03-79	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If any tragic situation happens to a child, then obviously it is much more difficult for a person, and the children really need to be helped. In and out of school. As the news has shown since then, this child's school conditions have not been particularly easy and several studies have been launched. The school is maintained by the Hungarian Evangelical Brothers' Community, the Iványi Gábor organization, which did not require a school guard to attend the school. You're the one who attacked school-guarding opportunities; I think that if someone at school feels that this is necessary, it's worth using it for the sake of the children. Luckily, they work well in a lot of institutions, and it might be worth it here. [[16.20]] So the MET will have an internal investigation into how events and the police, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Police Department, may have started the process, of course, sooner or later. So much for the specific case. So it's not about a school that is directly state-owned and doesn't have a school guard, where it wasn't because it didn't, but because it didn't. You said with a sommic half-phrase that nothing has happened in recent years to prevent such cases. Please don't let a lot of professionals handle their work to such an extent. If I look at our latest digital child protection strategy, it is 2016 which is precisely aimed at reducing online harassment, but we have tried not only online but also offline. You know, when you left the Hungarian school system, you were 998, so you were less than a thousand school psychologists, and now there are 1908, so there are nearly twice as many school psychologists, nearly twice as many school psychologists to prevent these situations, or if something went wrong, to help you process them and to protect them from repeating them, as in your time. So there's twice as much chance for a child to meet a school psychologist today as under the left-wing government. In addition, from 1 September 2018 we have also established family and children's welfare centres, which must be provided with compulsory social assistance activities in schools. There are a lot of programs that run: developing conflict management skills for high school students, online and offline harassment, preventing and dealing with aggressive manifestations. Then there is a program to turn to, which helps prevent and process conflict. There is the MAP, the basic program of mental hygiene for educators, which helps to expand problem-solving strategies. The National Basic Study also contains modern content on the subject of moral education, on the one hand, and the development of self-knowledge and social culture on the other. The police have a DADA program, counter-programming program. There are IBTs, school crime prevention consultants. A total of 123 065 children have been given in the past year; 123 065 children, which you said you did not have, do not exist. You may not be informed, but these programs are running, and we thank 238 instructors that you have spent a lot of time on this, not a little energy to bring these programs and deliver them to well over 100,000 children. Thank you for your work. As far as the school guards you handle are concerned, they are present in 570 institutions: 385 district, 167 vocational training, 11 church institutions, 4 private and 3 agricultural ministries, and there they also try to help the children. When I spoke in schools, I met school guards, they often became popular figures for children, and they also became participants in school life, but the important thing is that they are already trying to protect children and teachers with their presence. Let us hope that with their help, even with their appearance, we can prevent such violent manifestations. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-81	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister.
u2022-10-03-82	Dear Secretary of State, I'm getting used to them always talking about the past and your condescending style. [[Bence Rétvári: Now I speak very humbly.]] Yes, I've been informed. The problem is that the system really doesn't work, but we can talk about it outside of Parliament, what are the problems that hinder the safety of children, also at a professional level. But I'm making a gesture that's very rare in Parliament. I'm gonna ask you for something first. If you think you'd like to join this beyond words, then I would ask you to wear a white T-shirt for school abuse on 15 October at the initiative of the HandFogva movement, this is my request. [[Bence Rétvári: I'm in white now, unlike you.]] And the other, you always say in words that everything is okay, but I prefer practice, and in practice everything is not okay. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But you know what, Mr. Secretary? I accept your answer. [[It's a rare applause.]] And I hope that we can work together factually after that. Thank you.
u2022-10-03-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, President Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Will the government be willing to the Hungarian veto of NATO expansion in order to avoid World War II? It's an address. By replying to the interpellation, Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó has appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, and at the request of Minister Tamás Menczer, Minister of State, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, will respond. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian veto of the enlargement of NATO Member States is promoted by the Mi Hazank Movement, because another step towards the World War would be to provoke the expansion of the military alliance on Russia's border, while the neutral zone would be of international interest. Does the government agree with this and support the veto that can be applied by the Hungarian Parliament? Of the NATO members, only Turkey has not ratified enlargement, but Ankara has essentially agreed, so now the world's eyes are on us. We have no problem with Finland and Sweden, but it is also in their interest not to widen the war conflict by joining NATO right now. Europe's peace and fragile balance are ensured if NATO and Russia are not or are only marginal to each other, because there is a militaryly neutral or so-called buffer zone. So far, Finland and Sweden have played this role in the north and Ukraine in Central and Eastern Europe. Over the past six months, we have seen that the attempt to eliminate this buffer zone, i.e. to globalise Ukraine, to integrate it into the Western Alliance, is automatically followed by a harsh reaction from the other party. It is therefore essential that Russia's neighbourhood, Finland, Sweden, and even Ukraine, and the other former Soviet republics, be militaryly neutral in order to prevent the conflict from expanding into a world war, in this situation. Hungary has a responsibility that, instead of independence, unfortunately, our country has become a foreign military march area. Shipments of weapons can pass through us, through Romania and Slovakia to Ukraine. In July, the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces secretly visited the Ukrainian Joint Chiefs of Staff. The head of the armed forces there said that he was satisfied with the military cooperation levels of Ukraine and Hungary. What else does he know that our government doesn't want us to know? Unfortunately, since then, the Baltic airspace has also been provided to Hungarian Gripes, and they are already in conflict with Russian fighters. According to the Hungarian Movement, it is time for Hungary, with the veto of NATO expansion, to finally take action against the expansion of war. The decision is officially in the hands of the Hungarian Parliament, but it is obvious that the position of the government will be decisive for the pro-government representatives, because since 2010, all the ministry responses to the interpellation have been accepted by the Mameluks. They always think all their ministers are right. While before 2010, there was an interpellation in each cycle, whose response was not accepted by the Parliament, only ever since then any legitimate criticism of the hip has been rejected. Well, so much for the national cooperation system. But what about NATO's eastern expansion? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] With another step towards World War II? Are you in favour of a pro-peace veto? Mr State Secretary, I look forward to your substantive reply. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-10-03-85	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-86	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If you press for peace in your speech and stress the importance of peace and the importance of avoiding the world war, avoiding further escalation of conflict and the importance of it, then we fully agree on this. If there is a government that is in favour of peace, if there is a government that is interested in peace, which from the beginning highlights peace and its importance, then that is the Hungarian government and then Hungary. We're in the neighborhood of the war country, 1 million, maybe 1.5 million, more like the number of refugees who came to us. We know and see, we feel the weight of war, and that is why we are very close to the war conflict in peace. [[16.30]] Therefore, the Hungarian government's position from the beginning is that, on the one hand, we must stay out of this, which is why we do not send soldiers, we do not send weapons, and we do not allow shipments of weapons to cross the Hungarian-Ukrainian border. If you are afraid of a pro-war position, you should not be looking for this at the government, but at the Hungarian left, where, if I were to start quoting here, then all the time would be gone, but from the candidate for Prime Minister Péter Márki-Zay, through Bencé Tordai, many politicians urged the transport of weapons, and they said that there would be a situation where Hungary would be brought into the war. This was also the decision of the Hungarian people in the April elections, and they took a clear position in favour of peace. You have also mentioned NATO, honourable Member. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the Hungarian position is entirely in line with NATO's position, that NATO has also made it clear that as an alliance it will not send weapons into this conflict and that as an alliance it will not send soldiers into this conflict. Precisely because of what you have mentioned, and what I think you have rightly and correctly drawn attention to, and with which I agree, because the direct conflict between NATO and Russia would, after all, be a huge country and a nuclear power, so we must avoid clashing and conflict between NATO and Russia. We must push for peace. Not so long ago, perhaps two weeks ago, the UN General Assembly, where many politicians in the world were there, and others who otherwise do not have a very good relationship with each other. Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó has said all along that this assembly must also be used to create peace and move processes towards peace. We were sorry to see that, and we have to be honest about the fact that this did not happen, and the Hungarian Foreign Minister was the only EU Foreign Minister who also negotiated with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Even though he was criticized for this, and even though we were told to be snakes and frogs because of this, the Hungarian position is clear: peace is not born without negotiation, it is never born in history, therefore it is necessary to negotiate, and by the way, those who criticize us should take into account whether the German Chancellor or the French President or their work, as they are also negotiating with the Russian President. You are right about NATO membership. Parliament will decide that, Parliament will decide, and the government will respect that. We have said from the beginning that the Turkish aspects must be taken into account in this regard. I may even ask you not to criticize this in relation to Baltic airspace protection. There, the Hungarian soldiers have been gaining international recognition and gain international recognition for a long time, in 15 and 19 as well as now, as they are doing a great job there. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-87	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-10-03-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I could almost accept the answer if it hadn't turned into such a bullshit. Unfortunately, it also started, and I was hoping that at least at the end of the answer, he would say that this delay you are doing is driving Hungary somewhat towards peace. But I do not see a clear guarantee that they dare to take the veto, which seems that only Hungary can now do. Unfortunately, despite the fact that I gave this interpellation in advance in writing, as requested, the title of it was, in spite of the fact that the government was willing to take the Hungarian veto of NATO expansion in order to avoid World War II? Nor did he answer that you personally, Minister, personally, support this, whether you support it as a representative or support it as a member of the government, what guidance you give as a government to the Hungarian Parliament. Therefore, we do not know that the veto is supported, but the Hungarian Movement urges Hungary, if necessary, as the last NATO member, to take advantage of the possibility of veto in order to avoid World War II. This will be the true pro-peace, and this will be the true measure of your pro-peace. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-03-89	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Bakos, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: why is the government not dealing with the support of those in need instead of extermination? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-10-03-90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Unfortunately, I have to say that you do not see the forest from the tree, and unfortunately this is literally the case in this case, because when you decided to increase logging, you gave a wrong answer at the same time to the energy crisis and the environmental crisis. The Rapid and Unthinkable Forest Exterminator Regulation at the beginning of August [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] , and then the Authority's priced firewood programme points out that they are unable to provide lasting and realistic solutions to interrelated problems in crisis situations. Prime Minister said in Parliament that we have enough natural gas for this winter. Nevertheless, you want to convert thousands of households to wood heating instead of providing social support to those who cannot currently pay for increased energy prices for a few months, regardless of heating mode. Meanwhile, they should launch the national building insulation program quickly, with which they are more than a decade behind. Thus, in 2023, we would be able to effectively combat the energy crisis by real and lasting reductions in families, not by unnecessary deforestation. Let's not have any doubts. As you claim, the energy crisis will remain with us after the war. You know very well that war is a catalyst, but it is not a cause of the energy crisis, and we can deal with the persistent energy crisis through energy efficiency programmes, by spreading renewable energy, not by deforestation. We have also not been informed how many households are expected to switch to wood burning in winter and how much extra production is expected of each tree species. Is it really the freshly cut wet wood that is not suitable for heating this year to satisfy the demand for extra firewood? At least as important a question is that there are a sufficient number of qualified professionals for safe logging. But my main question is, instead of cutting heads, why don't you directly support the needy? I find it shocking that the poorest, most vulnerable layer is still not being dealt with in substance. I'm talking about the people for whom the official priced firewood is priceless, who have not yet been reduced by the overhead, because the gas is not introduced into their uninsulated houses. If there was any justification for the extra insurance for firewood, it would be the area of the households concerned by the social firewood programme. This would require no cutting, only additional resources, since the demand for firewood could be covered without the August regulation. The proposal of the Green Party of LMP-Hungary: social gas price support, national building insulation programme, renewable energy and social firewood programme. In this way we can also protect Hungarian people and Hungarian forests. Thank you for your reply.
u2022-10-03-91	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-92	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government's timely action to increase the production of firewood was preceded by a thorough assessment and evaluation. I regret to say that by using the word "saying" or by taking it out of the regulatory environment of the centuries-old forest management method, in the present emergency, I fear in the public, with a calm conscience. Disinformation, humiliating issues that strengthen the population's climate anxiety are emerging. I would like to inform you that in Hungary, thanks to the strict regulation and official control of Hungarian forestry for more than a hundred years, there will be neither deforestation nor deforestation. Anyone who still mentions deforestation, in my opinion, shows his indiscretion and unpreparedness, because the forest's wildlife and area is constantly growing, and only nearly half of the students have been produced in the last decade. Over the last ten years, the area of forests over the age of 100 has grown to one and a half installations. You consider it appropriate to provide firewood to households affected by the social firewood programme. I would like to inform you that one of the objectives of the August government measures was to ensure that, on the appropriate regulatory basis, firewood is available, preferably in good time, quantity and regional distribution, especially for those who are socially deprived, but also for other households and even public institutions. [[16.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As an individual Member of Parliament, I would also like to confirm this idea. Local governments of municipalities that have claimed their social firewood supply during the previous period, almost without exception, I would say that each settlement has received it nationwide, and will provide it in time, issue it or have already issued it in part to those in need. I think it is important to stress that, in addition to the residential and industrial needs of heating wood, construction, furniture and paper also require raw materials, for which wood can not only be provided through cutting, but our predecessors have planted trees on nearly one million hectares as fast as acacia, which, among other things, ensure the welfare of our nature forests. The wood coming out of our acacia will soon be suitable for firing. State-owned forestry companies subject to the ownership rights of the Ministry will continue to participate actively and effectively in the implementation of the social firewood programme. If you really want to be the Green Party of Hungary, please do not cause panic, do not spread false news, but help with your work the planned and professional work of nature conservation and forestry and objective public education. For the record, you're talking about an energy crisis. The energy crisis has clearly occurred not only in Hungary but throughout Europe because of the damage caused by faulty sanctions in Brussels. I would be honored to have your attention and ask for the acceptance of my further answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2022-10-03-93	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-94	Thank you again for the floor. We would like to take a look at your assessment of the situation, because we really did not get any answers to my questions earlier. We're hoping to get some of this. Our problem with the regulation is that it is not differentiated by forest or tree species. Then, if that's in it, if that wasn't the goal, then why did you have to correct it with a ministerial order later? So it raises a lot of questions, which I also didn't get an answer to. According to experts, the additional demand could have been well served according to the rules so far, and I would also be interested to raise the budget for social firewood at that time. Energy prices started to rise before the war, and it probably won't work out after the end of the war, so I can't accept your answer.
u2022-10-03-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-03-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, There has been a lot of talk about the energy crisis here in Parliament, which is what I would like to comment on. We can clearly see that the main task of the Hungarian government in these times of war is to preserve the reduction of the rent for Hungarian families and to keep the retail energy prices low. This reduction is what has been protecting Hungarian families for nine years now and is still protecting Hungarian families, but unfortunately, Hungarian families are not important to everyone. Due to Brussels' sanctions policy, energy prices appear to have skyrocketed. The energy supply situation is extremely difficult throughout Europe, and the rise in energy prices also results in an economic crisis. It is now clear that sanctions policy has not fulfilled its expectations, but it also causes very serious damage to Hungarian and European families. If we do nothing, a significant part of our successes over the past ten years can be consumed by increases in energy prices. The Hungarian demand reduction and its maintenance up to the average consumption are the largest support programmes across Europe. If electricity and gas accounts were to be paid today up to the average consumption, then a Hungarian household would have to pay approximately HUF 200,000 a month. Compared to this, we now have to pay some HUF 25,000, so the monthly subsidy is almost HUF 180,000. While virtually the inhabitants of Europe are suffering from this misguided Brussels sanctions policy, we are shocked to see what is happening in the European Parliament as a parallel reality, as some European Parliament groups and their representatives, such as Guy Verhofstadt, are pushing for sanctions to be increased at any cost, no matter what the pressure on the European population. Of course, we do not understand and agree. This is not what Brussels promised when the sanctions were introduced. They said that sanctions would bring Russia to its knees and put an end to the war. Well, since the introduction of sanctions supported by the Hungarian left, Europe has been threatened by crisis and energy shortages, energy prices are skyrocketing, and war is unfortunately continuing. It is therefore high time that Europe's leaders saw and understood that there is only one solution for all of us: the political cessation of energy sanctions. Energy sanctions which have been put in place by the European Union must be stopped, which have led to reckless and economic damage. I am therefore asking the Secretary of State what the government is doing to ensure that the reduction in overhead costs remains sustainable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2022-10-03-97	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When the government introduced the reduction in rent within Europe in 2013, it still protects families in a unique way, then the left has acted in the same way as it is now, and basically criticized this whole institution: it was denied, criticized, challenged. To give a very good example of this, in 2014, the leader of the opposition, the President of DK, summarized his views on this institution. They asked him what his position was, the common position on the reduction of the rent, on which he only replied that it was stupid. If it had been up to the left, there would have been no reduction in the rent in Hungary, and therefore it has to be said that since 2013, Hungarian families have been able to save some HUF 2000 billion by reducing the rent. Compared to this, we know the policy of the left, as they have raised energy prices 15 times, and our energy companies are also in foreign hands. The current left-wing accusation is that energy prices are not caused by war and sanctions, but simply by the governing parties, and that is what they are prepared for in the campaign. Well, compared to that, reality is not in the same place as left-wing claims. The Hungarian elections were on 3 April and the European Union adopted the sixth sanction package on 31 May. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán succeeded in achieving it and vetoing it, and thus the sanctions for crude oil delivered through the pipeline do not apply to our country. This is a huge, huge achievement, because we have been able to make it clear that due to our geographical situation it is not possible for Hungary to remove Russian oil without the complete transformation of our refinery capacities, which is a very time-consuming task. After this Brussels sanction package was adopted, energy prices increased and increased incredibly from June onwards, electricity prices in Europe are six times higher, seven times higher than in the US and ten times higher than gas prices, but oil prices are also higher, inflation is rising. Europe is threatened by a lack of energy and a crisis, and the war is going on. Brussels said, as Mr President said, that sanctions will bring Russia to its knees, and the war will end. Compared to this, it seems that the European people are the losers of this war, and Russia was more than able to make a profit. For example, Gazprom has gained the greatest income of all time, the first semester's profit is already twice that of last year. [[16.50]] As we have said, this sanctions policy is supported by the Hungarian left. The fact is that the President of Jobbik also said that sanctions work, and last week, the President of the Momentum confirmed that sanctions work. We believe that sanctions do not work and cause a huge problem with energy prices. Nevertheless, the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to continue helping Hungarian families. We maintained the reduction of the rent until the average consumption, saving about HUF 181 thousand for families, and we decided to extend the petrol and food price stop further and to extend the interest stop. In addition, we support SMEs, we work on a factory rescue programme, and if necessary, we will also introduce an action plan to protect jobs. Thank you again for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-99	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I accept the answer, especially because in the last 12 years, I think there have been some times when a large part of Hungarian society is, how should I put it? He thanked God that the left does not govern Hungary. It would be terrible to think of it if, in the midst of the migrant crisis, the left which, fortunately, was not in power. What would have happened if this government had been under Covid? It's hard to imagine what kind of politics he'd have had. In fact, I think it is now that we can see the joy of having a government in Hungary, which, unlike the left, does not accept Brussels's proposals as a coercion, but looks at the interests of the Hungarian people. We are confident that we can continue to represent these interests and that the Hungarian government can help protect the policy of reducing costs. We support the government in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey and Lőrinc Nacsa, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: It's an address. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor.
u2022-10-03-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Let us remember the days when almost 10,000 illegal immigrants entered the territory of the European Union every day without any control. Remember, when the aggressive, fighting crowds at the Eastern Railway Station terrorized not only the inhabitants of the area, the dramatic events shocked the whole country. In view of the European Union's incapacity and the consequences of the events, the government decided at the critical moment to close the Hungarian border for both national security and public health reasons. The construction of the border lock not only caused serious anger from illegal immigrants, but also from Brussels and, of course, the Hungarian left constantly attacked and attacked Hungary and the Hungarian people for saying no to immigration. Unfortunately, in recent years there has been a significant increase in terrorist acts by migrants throughout Europe, which have often claimed the lives of innocent people or have seriously endangered their physical integrity. Remember the day seven years ago when the angry migrants broke the Hungarian border and confronted the police that served there after the border closure was completed. Dear Secretary of State, Immigrants are increasingly aggressive and constantly pressuring the Hungarian border and those who serve there. People living in Hungarian-Serbian border settlements are increasingly afraid, as it is not uncommon that criminals also have weapons. In recent years, after the initial lumbering, several European countries have followed Hungary's example and recognised the importance of defence, and many have even built borders and border fences. It has been proven that the most effective form and method of border protection is legal border lock and fence building. Unfortunately, we can't calm down yet, because the number of border offenders has tripled in recent months. For this reason, it is even more justified to maintain strong Hungarian border protection, as the migration pressure at the border is persistent, the number of violent border-breaking attempts is constantly increasing, and the activities of human smugglers are increasing. In this situation border hunters are almost indispensable. The cross-border hunting training, which was announced after the establishment of the unit, was also attended by applicants who wanted to protect their country. As a man committed to the cause of patriotic and defence education, I am pleased to see how many enthusiastic, dedicated citizens have taken on this noble, but also, let us say, dangerous task. The training of border hunters is continuous, the number of people in service is increasing, and the Hungarian people hopefully expect the situation to move in a better direction. Therefore, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State how border hunters perform after the oath of the first centuries. Can we expect border hunters to continue to protect Hungary's southern borders and guarantee the safety of Hungarian people? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-103	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The issue of migration has not been removed from the Brussels decision-makers' agenda at all, nor has any proposal been withdrawn. Now the greatest attention is obviously devoted to the Russian-Ukrainian war, however, if this issue ever comes up, Brussels will continue to take the same pro-migration position as before. But not alone, because the shadow minister of the left, Klára Dobrev, also said that immigration is a brilliant communication trick, if Viktor Orbán were to rebel against UFOs, then today the majority of people in Hungary would be afraid of UFOs. He therefore believes that migration is a fiction from the Hungarian government. Try explaining this, say, in a London or Paris no-go zone or somewhere in Scandinavia. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the government is building on the worst instincts when it wants to put a fence on the border. But Gergely Christmas, former fallen Prime Minister candidate, did not think otherwise: by no means should the border fence be built, he said. But there were fake problems here that Fidesz invented this, right, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Csaba Horváth. According to Anna Orosz, domestic workers benefit from immigration, while Bence Tordai believes that the fence built at the southern border is pointless, inhuman and wasteful. In English, the position of the left is the same, it wouldn't have been built, and if Brussels had asked for it, it would have been broken down at the first word. Those who do not believe, go to Slovenia, the left-wing government came, the fence was demolished, and they said that illegal migration needed to get used to it. So far, 192 845 people have tried to cross the southern border illegally this year, compared to 122 thousand last year and 46 thousand before last year. So far, 1448 smugglers have been caught this year, compared to 1277 last year and 455 before last year. So the number of immigrants and smugglers is clearly increasing. We spent more than 600 billion forints protecting the southern border, and only 1-2 percent of it was covered by the European Union and the rest had to be covered by Hungarian people. The Hungarian people pay the price for the safety of the European people, although this could be the reverse, so that the Union finances common security from common sources. But they don't do that. However, the incentives for migration are, of course, financially supported. So those who promote trafficking in human beings in a way that violates the criminal and criminal code are financed by those who, according to the rules, stand on the Hungarian border and defend the border of the European Union, which is financed by less than 1.5 percent. We can remember the battle in Röszke when, according to Ferenc Gyurcsány, the Hungarian police attacked peaceful refugees, and according to the photos, illegal migrants attacked the Hungarian police with stones. In fact, in July of this year, migrant gangs or even smuggling gangs were shooting at each other, and they all died. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) During the summer, the recruitment of border hunters began. I don't think the head of HR of a multi-company company would have agreed to recruit 500 people to work at the southern border in the middle of the summer in four weeks, with a four-week training course. But the Hungarian police, the Hungarian state, succeeded. I think a lot of people in the market wouldn't have done that. As I spoke to many people during training, many said that they wanted to protect their families, that they were a border hunter, that others said that they wanted to protect their country, and that others said that border hunting was a predictable career that they were happy to take part in. Thanks to their work, more than 10 percent of prisoners in prison are smugglers in Hungary. This is also a huge burden in Hungarian prisons. So not only is there a burden on the border, but also in our prisons. The Hungarian people have repeatedly clearly rejected illegal migration. In the national consultation, 89 percent of people demanded more stringent measures and 3.4 million rejected compulsory resettlement quotas in the referendum in 2016. Thank you for the border hunters' activities, recruitment and training continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you and ask Mr Lőrinc Nacsa to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State. [[17.00]]
u2022-10-03-106	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept the answer. First of all, I would like to thank the soldiers and police who have served at the border so far, all of them, out of patriotic duty and in order to guarantee the security of the country, for their work. And I wish the border hunting centuries good luck, and we thank them for their important role in Hungary's security. As the Secretary of State said, the left stands for migration, for example, the last time in the campaign, Mayor Péter Niedermüller said that he considered the fence morally untenable. He was in the company of Miklós Hajnal at the time, and he was not very opposed to this show either, because they called the fence morally untenable, which they obviously wanted to break down after that. And last summer, Klára Dobrev said that he did not support the EU at all to provide money for border protection. US money is good for the dollar left, but I don't want to use EU border funds. We think it's a shame. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, Will the Government help NGOs dealing with disabled people? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-03-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I assume Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer me. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Orbán government's livelihood crisis and the brutal increase introduced by the Orbán government do not spare civil society organisations that support people with disabilities. In recent days, there have been ominous requests from several NGOs dealing with disabled people. The letter addressed to the Minister of Interior has been sent to us, and in this, the largest Hungarian NGOs dealing with people with disabilities say that they need immediate help because of the multiple costs of overhead. They write in their letter that they are currently receiving energy at the brutally increased price; and we are talking about civil society organisations, Mr Secretary of State, which work largely instead of the state and help those to whom the state is unable. The request for assistance is signed by the Civic Interest Protection Network for Disabilities for People Services Association for Civil Organizations, shortening CÉNetwork; the National Association of Social Organisations and Foundations for Intellectual Damages, ÉTA National Association; and 118 member organisations of the National Association for the Protection of Interests, including the Down Foundation. Dear House, The shadow government has examined the request of civil society organisations and fully agrees with their request: there is absolutely no way to collect more than ten or twelve times the rent from non-profit organisations performing social tasks. I have personally met some of these organisations' representatives, and I must say, Mr Secretary of State, they are trembling to see how they will survive this winter. These are nonprofit organizations, all forints are used to work. If the government squeezes on them, it stops them from operating and makes it impossible to treat intellectually injured people, people with Down Syndrome and people with disabilities. According to the shadow government, a pricing model should be developed with immediate effect for civil society organisations that are involved in social care or for other reasons can be considered as a priority for society. Even the notoriously cold Orbán government cannot be so inhumane as not to help these people, not to help these organisations. I look forward to your reply, Mr Secretary of State, and I hope that, since the interpellation has been submitted in time, you will now inform us of a complete solution here in this House. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2022-10-03-109	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As the congresswoman mentioned, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government will strive to provide care for everyone, including those in need of social care and those in school, so that they can receive appropriate education in this area. But as far as the shadow government is concerned, as you have mentioned, honourable Member, it seems that there are tough basic requirements for who can enter the shadow government. It is likely that the application for your position has been put out by who voted to take the 13th month pension and also to reduce the salary of social workers. Looks like it was a condition of competence. And it was also necessary to be in office when the social norm was reduced by HUF 30,000 at social institutions and by HUF 100,000 at the priority social institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It would have been worth listening to these organisations at the same time, and they are pleased that they have to work for less wages and less norm. As far as the Fundamental Law is concerned, in which the fundamental rights of people who are cared for by these organisations are also enshrined: it has a modest, consensus-seeking and professional position that it should not be celebrated but thrown into the trash. We can also remember the home of the elderly on Pest Road, where for more than a week there was no doctor at the time of the outbreak and many were at risk; or when 70-80 percent of the residents sent to the hospital were diagnosed with ugliness, you personally said that there was no hygiene problem at the moment. That's how you treated people who were socially in need. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is important to remedy the root causes of this huge problem, as regards the energy crisis. The sanctions backfired, and now we see that we in Europe are facing a lot of difficulties, and those who come to you and work in social institutions are worried about what will happen in the winter. Please convince Klara Dobrev at the meeting of the shadow government that her sentences, that very strong and harsh sanctions can be used to stop Putin, and we will not back down, we will also vote for the strictest sanctions, so think about whether this is really right; and when the organisations concerned about the energy crisis come in, and your shadow minister at the shadow seat tells us that we will not back down, and serious responses have been taken, but, as you said, we need to take further steps, then perhaps think of these people that they are very concerned about this. And then don't call the reduction of the rent "stupidity, fooling around, magic, debauchery, people debauchery, alms, populism, irresponsible action" if the organisations coming in to you say how much they really need this step. The government has made it clear that there can be no restrictions in health care institutions, residential social institutions and child protection institutions, and that all care must be fully provided there, including the appropriate temperature that was previously provided. For those who use electric wheelchairs, electric mopeds or oxygen concentrators, an additional discount is provided, precisely so that they can get the necessary 1697 kilowatts at a reduced price. The consumer status to be protected is also important, which protects many people in need of social protection now and will continue to protect them both in terms of gas supply and electricity consumption. And, as I said at the beginning, honourable Member, obviously every case here is unique, you know, these homes have unique situations, they have a unique environment, they provide individual care, so it cannot be talked about in general, but it can be said that we will take care of each recipient individually. Obviously, there are various options here - state care, church care, civil care. But the point is that, regardless of the people, sanctions are adopted in Brussels and make it difficult for the social care system to work, we will take care of all people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-111	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. I respectfully ask Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can't accept the answer. And I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to say very hard: shame on you. I'm not talking about what's in kindergarten, what's in school, how many degrees they're gonna heat, but why, for example, in homes with Down Syndrome, you can't be a public authority pricer, where to prepare these people, at least to lead an independent life, these civil society organisations spend a lot of money and energy. And you guys are talking shit and you're talking shit. You say now that everyone will be taken care of individually. I'm going to ask them to start looking for you with these cases. [[Bence Rétvári: In progress!]] - Everyone, specifically. I simply don't understand if an interpellation is given in writing four or five days before, why it cannot be answered fairly in the Hungarian Parliament. It's a shame what you're doing here. Thank you, I don't accept it. [[Bence Rétvári: Shadow Shame. Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-03-113	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the answer. [[17.10]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, decisions will be taken on our meeting tomorrow. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is talking to László Vécsey in the benches of Fidesz.]] Now it's 5:10 p.m., we're at the end of the interpellations, and we're moving on to immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, [[To Dr. Lajos Szűcs:]] I'm waiting for Mr. Notary for the pulpit. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what is the Government doing to improve the health situation? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári appointed Deputy Minister, State Secretary. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[On the signal of Zoltán Komáromi:]] Thank you very much. You indicate to me, Congressman, that you have accepted the person who is responding. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-114	Dear Secretary of State, The proverb is not just about health, but it is certainly too serious to be left to you, Fidesz. He's been in your hands for 12 years, and look where they put him. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) Twenty days ago, the Director General of the NEAK said at a national conference that five times fewer patients are being treated by the clinics now than the year before the Covid outbreak. We should be glad that the health status of the population has improved so much, but unfortunately this is not the case: the number of oncological screenings has decreased by 20 percent, the performance of rehabilitation benefits has fallen by less than half, thousands of complaints about incapacity, long waiting, lack of access to specialist care are running into NEAK. So the patient did not become less, but in the last month, the debt of public hospitals increased by HUF 8 billion in two months, which is basically compounded by the fact that the patients did not have access to HUF 12-14 billion of care. There's a whole new example, not one, but two. Ten days ago it was announced that the children's gastroenterological clinic at Fejér County St. George's Hospital was temporarily suspended due to lack of human resources, and a week before that we heard that the child's cardiology specialist in Sopron was the same. In this situation, the government also wishes to nationalise outpatient care after hospitals, which would obviously lead to further deterioration of the situation, if not for other reasons, because it would fall out of the system of ten billion-dollar resources, with which the municipalities currently support the development of their own clinics. The new health strategy will now be presented to the government in October, but there has been no consultation with the Medical Chamber or with the patient organisations. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State what the government intends to do for a constantly higher level of health care. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2022-10-03-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is our shared responsibility that the quality of health care is improving and that obviously requires additional resources, so we always expect the Hungarian opposition to vote in favour of one of these proposals. If we look at how much we increased the funding of Hungarian health care between 2010 and 2023, so during the budgets adopted, we see a surplus of HUF 1471 billion, which is a 123 percent increase; not to 123 percent, but to 123 percent, so we increased health resources more than twice. One of the biggest items in recent years has obviously been wage increases, two and a half increases by doctors, and as a result, doctors are now making much better money. You know and know the numbers that the starting doctor with a gross basic salary of HUF 129 500 in 2010 when we started governing now receives HUF 619,000 as a gross basic wage, and by the beginning of next year it will rise to HUF 687 thousand. A doctor at the end of his career, who has been healing for more than forty years, made 262,000 forints in gross basic wage at the beginning of our government, without any allowances, without nighttime, on-call overtime and other allowances, now earns HUF 2 million in gross. This is also a tangible step forward in gross terms. I think we can now say that we can properly estimate the work that doctors do and strive to make the environment as much as possible so that hospitals can be renovated. In more than 70 places, this was done in whole or in part, by building new rescue stations and building new clinics. This is a radically different direction from what we had before, because that wasn't the way for you on the left. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Because the children's hospital in Swabhegy, the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute, was closed, and I could tell you how many hospitals there are. On the other hand, we can now talk about expansions. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-117	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of the matter. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-118	Dear Secretary of State, The medical wage increase was absolutely good, a little delayed, but it was a very good step, but this means that more than 80 percent of the funding of health institutions has become wage costs, so they have no cost to operate. A Swedish health policy think tank publishes from time to time how European health systems are classified. In 2008 we were the 12th of the EU member states, right behind the United Kingdom, and since then we have been downhill every time, in 2018, we had the last-to-last place. So I would like to say that, on behalf of the shadow government, we are going to submit a parliamentary resolution, which will also describe and we are very happy to help you, for example, how to improve health by raising the immediate salary of nurses and organizing care. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But it really has to involve patient organisations and professional organisations, because otherwise they won't understand what they want to do.
u2022-10-03-119	Thank you very much. I would just like to inform the Member that in the Hungarian Parliament he has the opportunity to present himself as an individual or on behalf of the faction, and no one else has the opportunity. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-120	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We found that when the members of the shadow government made the Hungarian health decisions, what happened: 16,000 active beds were closed, 6 000 medical workers, doctors and nurses were fired, the visit fee was introduced and a month's wages were taken from the health care workers, so their wages were reduced. We also knew your program: Imre László said that half the hospitals in Hungary would be enough, and you said that there might be a lot of what Imre László says. So we know exactly what you're up to. I think what you're quoting is a consumer survey, you call it a Swedish think tank, which, by the way, for a few years now, if what I think you've been dealing with is that Hungary doesn't support illegal migration, so Hungarian health is bad; there was such a Swedish statement. I hope this is not a quote, honourable Member, which approached Hungarian health on a rather political basis. However, I think the OECD is accepted by all of us; well, when your shadow government governed, health spending in Hungary alone decreased. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And when the government that you intend to replace governs you, the seventh largest increase in health expenses. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title: "Ongoing issues." Honourable Congressman, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán, the political director of the Prime Minister, was entitled to respond. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-122	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Local authorities serving the population, the kindergartens, clinics, and cultural institutions they maintain are in a hopeless situation, since in August the Orbán government threw out the municipalities and municipal budgetary bodies from among those entitled to the universal supply of natural gas and electricity. Several mayors have indicated that this measure is likely to increase their energy costs by up to 5-15 times, no savings or responsible farming would compensate for such an increase. On the evening of September 30, another blow was struck at the nearly 100 settlements where there was a district heating service, since they were thrown out of the protected circle from 1 October, and they would have to pay more than 13 times for the district heating service. The government managed to fix the gas price for district heating at a record high price: instead of the 20 euros/megawatt gas price last May, 300 euros/megawatts were fixed in August this year. [[17.20]] One of the Communications of the MEKH also shows that the date of the price fixing period was 22 August and ended on 26 August. The gas price was the highest in this period; the price had not been so high before or since. In addition, the benefit of traders has been increased from the previous €2.37 to €25 per megawatt by the government body. In addition, last May there were 350 forints a euro, and now 425 forints only today. This means that municipal public services have clearly been threatened by elderly homes, kindergarten care and cultural institutions because of the government's bad decisions. I'd like to ask the political director how the government will compensate the municipalities for the bad decisions they've made. How do the institutions of our children and of our elderly parents guarantee that they will not close during the winter period? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-10-03-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, As I said, we will hear the answer from Prime Minister Balázs Orbán, political director. Here you go, Director. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-124	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are aware of the reason for the rise in energy prices, which is also affecting all EU Member States and all European countries outside the EU throughout Europe. Among the reasons, the Russian-Ukrainian war should be mentioned in the first two places, and the failed Brussels sanctions policy should be the answer. When Brussels decides to extend sanctions in terms of energy, and in certain areas it will no longer refrain from excluding sanctions in the field of energy, it has pushed prices to a range that no one has ever seen before, there is no disagreement between us in this respect. So when Brussels wants to involve energy policy in the sanctions policy, the situation that you have put forward and that all European countries are struggling with is that both the population, the corporate, the state and the municipal sectors can access energy sources at an unprecedented price, whether gas, electricity or other energy carriers. I therefore think that our first and most important task would be to agree here in the Hungarian Parliament that sanctions policies should be withdrawn from the energy field and in areas where energy sanctions have been adopted by Brussels and should be withdrawn. Unfortunately, I hear from you, representatives of the left-wing parties, that you still support energy sanctions and the further extension of energy sanctions. If we could agree on that, then it could be said that you could be relied on by the municipalities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, unfortunately, there's no way to say this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-03-125	Thank you very much, Director. Mr. Tamás Harangozó is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-03-126	Thank you for the floor. I want an answer, Director, that wasn't it. There are no energy sanctions for gas. László Palkovics made the decision to buy the Hungarian government at the highest possible price or to tie down this gas, and this will result in a 13-fold increase in district heat prices. Tell me what Brussels or sanctions have to do with it, or whatever it is that you've raised the guaranteed benefit of gas companies by making this government decision tenfold. 25 euros per megawatt means they're stealing more than a cubic meter of gas itself cost last year. Well, that's a hell of an extra pro. Where does all this money go and why is it being paid to local governments and people? ? We demand that this be withdrawn, and that 2 euros be enough, which last year was enough for these companies to make a living! Second, I'd like to hear it, Mr. Director, because this is all bullshit about how the kindergartens don't close. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How will elderly homes not be closed? How are people not going to get cold there, or are they not going to drive the children or the elderly home? Because with what you've just said about sanctions and Brussels, you can't heat it. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-10-03-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister Balázs Orbán is the political director. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I'm sad to hear you think there are no sanctions. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Gas!]] That's about all the Hungarian people can expect from you. Although their capacity to represent Brussels has now been abandoned by their last MEP, I hope that it will be greater. However, I think that the right solution would be that Hungarian politics could unite against sanctions in Brussels and that if sanctions were to be lifted immediately, energy prices would fall back to half. However, I think both things are true, but it is true, however, that Hungary provides the most income and income-related support for families. We are very proud of this, and we are working to maintain this support policy in the next very difficult winter period. And just as so far, as in the fight against the corona virus epidemic, municipalities and municipal institutions can count on government support, and we look forward to their signals as to how, in what form, we can do this. That's how it's been, and it's still gonna be. You cannot rely on a political force, unfortunately: you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-03-129	Thank you very much, Director. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Please respond, Prime Minister. It's an address. I would like to inform this House, my fellow Members, that the head of the Momentum faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that the Prime Minister will have to respond in the hour of the third immediate question due to his absence. Accordingly, we now have a representative who wants to ask the next question of the Momentum faction, that is to say, Mr Miklós Hajnal, who wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior, what should we expect in a time of crisis? The title of your immediate question. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári granted the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congressman Miklós Twilight is on the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I will continue in exactly the same place where my fellow Member Harangozó left off, hoping that we might get one more concrete answer from the Secretary of State of Rétvári than political director Balázs Orbán. The ever-increasing economic and otherwise energy crisis is affecting not only Hungarian people, but also our local governments. Local governments, which have also suffered government withdrawals, obviously cannot manage gas and electricity accounts more than tenfold in previous years on their own. These municipalities operate, as has already been said, basic public services, public lighting, waste transport, district heating, local public transport. But the municipalities maintain kindergartens, crèches, the most important facilities of the social care system, our elderly care facilities, social housing, and otherwise they also provide a public catering. So, the municipalities are relatively important, and I hope you feel the same way. So I ask the Secretary of State: can the municipalities in distress finally hear specifics before the winter heating season? My second question is: what systemic support will the government offer to troubled municipalities? And here the emphasis is on systemic support. And my third question: what is the assurance that the support of local governments will not be the victim of party political battles? Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-10-03-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We've all been listening to what's important in public services depends on energy. And this line can be continued: municipalities, schools, social institutions, police, fire department, water supply, other state tasks. They all depend on energy. Not to mention households, where people live their daily lives or companies who give jobs, a lot of people consume a lot of energy. So the line can be continued and expanded compared to what you said. Then I ask you, honourable Member, why do you not want to solve the root of the problem? The root of the problem lies in sanctions. We have provided many kinds of help to local governments, with extraordinary support or even with final asylum status, which many have enjoyed in the past, that they have had to pay less to municipalities. These aids were in some form, they are now, and they may be in the future. [[17 .30]] But why don't you want to fix the problem? Because we can talk about local governments, families, companies, the state looking for resources to reduce the problem, but why don't we go in that direction? Why do you not say that your fellow politicians in the European Parliament will no longer say that we are demanding more sanctions, but that we have considered that sanctions have not stopped Russia, but have brought Europe to its knees. Your fellow Member will tell you the lines that you have read. Be brave, read this also in the European Parliament and then demand that the European Union take steps to prevent energy prices from being so high, without sanctions. Honourable Congressman, In the spirit of European solidarity, the Germans have announced their own rescue programme, not a European programme! Everyone in Europe is affected by the crisis that Brussels decision-makers have brought, but they have declared their own rescue programme, not European ones. Why don't you want to solve the problem, and then in these areas, the more normal order of a year ago would be restored? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-03-133	Thank you very much. Congressman Miklós Hajnal has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-134	Thank you very much for the floor. Two are a short response to sanctions: on the one hand, we did not vote for them, but Viktor Orbán, who is, to my knowledge, the Prime Minister of Hungary and the Prime Minister of Hungary, which you have proposed; on the other hand, these sanctions, as has already been said here, do not apply to gas. However, back to my question, which I did not have any specific answers to at all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Gergely Gulyás spoke about the fact that there will be individual negotiations in the case of municipalities in the last week's Government Info. I asked you about systemic support because individual negotiation is a hotbed of political bias. Unfortunately, this has been the case for the past decade. And the same György Balla, who is not here, was appointed as the Minister's Commissioner, but who also discussed the withdrawal of business tax with the municipalities, and we know his style precisely, because, by the way, a year and a half ago, in an interview he said that there was nothing to compensate for, he did not think that withdrawal had occurred. That doesn't look good. I hope that the municipalities are not going to negotiate in this style again. The municipalities certainly do not need another Commissioner, but rather a guarantee. Unfortunately, you couldn't give me that. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-10-03-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-136	I listened surprisingly to his words. So Momentum doesn't support sanctions. Then I would ask you to take part in the national consultation, to give your opinion, and to publicly agree that you do not support sanctions, because you are either very misguided or even more serious. As far as business tax is concerned, honourable Member, we have left half the business tax at the companies. We left it at the companies! [[Miklós Dawn keeps interrupting.]] He wasn't distracted, he didn't take it, he left it at the companies. That's what you're attacking now, why half the business tax was left at the companies. And what they didn't pay, depending on the tax power, the government gave to the municipalities; the little ones in full, and the others in different degrees. As you said, it is György Balla who is going to negotiate with the municipalities, but you are surprised, honourable Member, that after reading the news about what we never thought in life, I believe that neither you nor I are going to blow up gas pipelines, you are here smiling and laughing that there is no problem with gas in Europe. [[Miklós Twilight intervenes.]] I think you do, and I think you do. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that it is much more serious than it was two weeks ago, that on these wires that were blown up at the bottom of the sea, gas will unfortunately not come for a long time, and it is very, very dangerous for all of Europe, and it will carry prices even further, not just sanctions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-03-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction, László György Lukács Group leader, said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to his absence. We now have the question of the representative of Jobbik's group who wants to ask the next question, that is to say, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who is the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, why is the Hungarian employee not the first? He's asking me with a title. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Minister has appointed Mr. Tamás Menczer as Secretary of State for his reply because of his absence. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel nodds.]] Thank you very much, you indicate your acceptance of the response. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-138	Mr President, Dear House, Although Hungary has hundreds of thousands of former Hungarian compatriots who do not receive any kind of care or re-training support due to a narrow-handed system, we see and are surprised that Hungary's Government has expanded its list of favourite countries. In recent years, the Philippines, Indonesia, Mongolia and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam have been among those from which tens of thousands of people have so far been organised in the form of labour imports, and they may later import hundreds of thousands of workers into Hungary; I stress that there are also inactive Hungarians who, in my view, do not receive the assistance they need. The Hungarian government has expanded this circle with six other countries in recent weeks, and is now expecting Brazilian and Colombian migrant workers. The annexes to the various regulations show that they also attract carpenters, restaurant workers, cashiers and meat processors, who may not necessarily have imagined their lives in Hungary in the past, and I believe that there might also be a Hungarian worker in these areas. The Government of Hungary then concluded a strategic agreement with temporary agency companies. According to the professional opinion of the National Association of Employees Rentals, the seduction and integration of foreign labour has been successful in the Western European and overseas developed economies for decades, and their position, so your strategic partners believe that they can not only bring in foreign workers, but also stay here in this country, in case the wage level is further approached. [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] The point of my question is that the professional position of your strategic partners could also be seen as a split professional position of the government. I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-10-03-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-140	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President...
u2022-10-03-141	A little patience, because the name of the Secretary of State has not yet been published. Is the card okay? [[For signal:]] It's okay. Okay, thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-142	Thank you again. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With the claim that Hungarian workers and Hungarian jobs are important, I agree 100%. So there's a basic position, an important statement that we agree on. It's too bad it's the only one and the last one, because I think it's good to clarify what the roles are and what the facts are, although you like to forget that, but politics is an experienced genre... [[Sic!]] So Hungarian workers must not be protected from the government, because Hungarian workers must be protected from the Hungarian left, and the Hungarian left is your ally. I understand that you do not like to remember this, but in 2010 there was 11.5-12 percent unemployment in Hungary, so there really were many people and many families who had no job, no regular income, and had to spend their lives and their everyday lives in this sense of uncertainty and fear. The Hungarian government then had a clear aim of creating jobs. This was done by means of job-creating investments, so before the corona virus, unemployment was 3.3-3,4 percent in Hungary, so it could be said that anyone who wanted to can work in Hungary could. This is when the coronal virus came, but we decided, despite the left-wing incentive or despite the fact that we do not want to finance unemployment, but to keep jobs and keep jobs, so we managed, of course, during and after the coronal virus, where jobs were lost, there were new jobs, but now we can say that 4.7 million people are working in Hungary, which is, by the way, a historical record for the last 30 years. And we are paying all the attention, or at least significant attention and resources, to the preservation of jobs in the future, despite the fact that the war after Covid is here. Hungarian jobs must be protected not from the government, but from your allies. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-03-143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-144	Thank you, Mr. President. I am truly sorry, Mr Secretary, that he is so uncomfortable with the answer, but in two minutes he was able to get out of here and say a word about Brazilian or Colombian chess and maids. It is quite amazing that you do not talk about the fact that this government is making organised imports of labour, while in one of Europe's narrowest unemployment care systems it tolerates the fact that we have more than a hundred thousand Hungarian nationalities with whom unemployment should not be financed, Mr. Secretary, they were previously working people, only after three months they are turned out of your cruel system, but with free re-training programs they may be able to fill these jobs and you should not be able to organize the third world to import the labour force here. [[17.40]] But as a member of a responsible conservative party, I would like to say to you that we are rejecting migration in all its forms, especially the organised imports of labour, which are taking place in bulk. We hope that you will take the same path, because the interests of 100,000 people in need should be chosen and, for once, not the interests of your strategic allies. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-03-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-10-03-146	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, What is unpleasant is there a difference of opinion between us, I think it is unpleasant to become a right-hander; it is most unpleasant to me, and you may have experience in this regard. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] As far as job protection is concerned, after Covid, war and sanctions for war are at risk, as well as energy price explosions, inflation, but especially energy price explosions, the Hungarian economy and Hungarian jobs. In this connection, I would like to inform you that for HUF 200 billion, the Hungarian government has developed a programme of assistance for productive and energy-intensive SMEs. The Hungarian government is also working on the factory rescue program, and this will be completed, and if necessary, there will be a job protection action plan again. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: For foreigners or Hungarians?]] Once again, honourable Member, Hungarian jobs must not be protected from the government, it is the government who protects Hungarian jobs and Hungarian workers, and you are speaking out of line as left-wing parties, losing all credibility. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Well, that didn't work.]]
u2022-10-03-147	Thank you very much. I would ask my honourable fellow Members to take personal things out of their speeches. Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: how does the government pay the promised funding for applications to animal defenders and how does it intend to help them not to interfere with their growing spending during the winter period? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you so much for accepting. Accordingly, it is for Mrs Rebecca Szabó to take the floor.
u2022-10-03-148	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Animal protection is now in a somewhat difficult place in the government, but in part, even at the Ministry of Agriculture, there are resources and measures, and we see that partly with the Ministry of Justice, Minister Péter Ovádi is doing his job in the Ministry of Justice, but in any case, what is very important is that somewhere in the government, someone is helping the civil society organisations to protect animals. The increase in overhead, the gas price increase, the electricity increase, and the fact that the kata has been abolished, and many of their employees can no longer work with these civil society organisations as before, are in very big trouble. This winter Hungarian animal protection is in serious crisis, even more than ever. In practice, civil society organisations could disappear and hundreds of thousands of stray animals could return to the streets, which, by the way, the government has been unable to provide for years, since there is no comprehensive neutering programme, and it has not yet prevented reproductive material from functioning. Animalists' resources are finite, so they are very, very counting on state and government support. Although the Ministry of Agriculture announced a HUF 500 million grant application for the management of the Herman Ottó Institute, the non-governmental organisations for animal protection took full note of the fact that the support decision on the applications received in the call for proposals was postponed for an unforeseen period of time. The result could be catastrophic. Therefore, I respectfully ask when you can expect to be able to provide effective assistance to civil society organisations in the field of animal protection, whether from this proposal or from other sources, this winter, so that the state's task, in fact, is carried out instead of the government, can continue to be carried out, and that there is no further tragedy that there will be sick, damaged, overgrown dogs, cats and other animals on the streets. Thank you.
u2022-10-03-149	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert responds to what has been said. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2022-10-03-150	Thank you for the floor. Madam Congresswoman, I would like to convey to you the answer of Commissioner Péter Ovádi. The government sees animal protection as a priority. In recent times, the government has taken a number of measures to protect animals that have never been seen in our country. In 2021, it launched an online dialogue on key issues in animal protection, completed by more than a quarter of a million citizens. Last year, the National Veterinary Council and the Center for Animal Protection, Analysis and Methodology of the University of Medical Sciences were established, as well as the Gazdi jogi training, where animal keepers can gain theoretical and practical knowledge of responsible animal farming. Following the answers given in the online dialogue, at the end of last year, the Parliament tightened up certain animal protection provisions of the Criminal Code, and the government filled out a legal gap since 2009 with the adoption of the stray regulation, thus regulating the responsibilities of the tadpoles. One of the most important elements of animal protection, neutering, has also received an unprecedented role. More than 600 municipalities received more than 500 million forints of support from the Hungarian village program, which financed the neutering of 18 thousand co-animals. We are living in strange times, as the past period has led to a number of difficulties in the functioning of civil animal protection organisations. In response to the situation, the Government of Hungary has provided extraordinary support to 67 NGOs during the epidemic. The government also supports civil society organisations this year, in May it launched a HUF 500 million grant application for them, and indeed, as you mentioned, according to the Herman Otto Institute, a considerable amount of applications were received, which led to the government delaying the publication of the grant decision for an unforeseen period of time. So the government's holding the tender. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-151	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor, Madam President, I apologise, but there is one clarification: this reply was given on behalf of the Minister, no matter who wrote the answer; what is said here always sounds on behalf of the competent minister. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-03-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. I took note of this, but I would like to point out that online dialogue is not going to be able to pay the bills for animal protection, so we need effective immediate assistance. It is October now, they are facing a very difficult winter, and it is not reassuring that you will postpone the payment of this tender money for any uncertain, unforeseen time. Every penny counts in Hungarian animal protection, because I am very happy that there are conferences and meetings and online questionnaires, but these NGOs that do active rescue are out on the streets either in Budapest or in the countryside, and they are collecting damaged, sick animals, and they need state resources, help and money, and it will be very bad if you do not pay for this. By the way, I think there is money, and I just heard that the government bought the National Sports for 3 billion forints. This is a very interesting thing, that for such a fantastic large number of newspapers you can only give 3 billion out of your pocket; here we are talking about 500 million forints of tender money. I would like to ask you with respect when civil society organisations for animal protection will receive this money.
u2022-10-03-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-10-03-154	Thank you, Mr President, for your warning about the person who is responding, I am not losing sight of this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We must not forget that, with the misguided sanctions in Brussels, Europe shot itself in the leg. Emerging energy prices also do not spare civil society organisations in the field of animal protection. This week, our common cause will be the general debate of the Law establishing the Foundation for Animal Protection. The Foundation's ex-public benefit status would, inter alia, distribute corporate subsidies among civil society organisations engaged in animal protection activities and encourage cooperation between operators and civil society organisations, thereby supporting their activities. The government continues to work to ensure that civil society organisations in the field of animal protection can get all the help they can to operate on a daily basis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-03-155	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, by means of metacommunication, indicates that he would like to make a point of order. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that after answering the last question on interpellation, questions and immediate questions, it is possible to present a point of order. [[17.50]] Accordingly, of course, I have not forgotten you; only then will I be able to create an opportunity. Congressman László Toroczkai, Mr Group Leader, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, 'Will there be a turn or will we run towards our loss? It's an address. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the head of the Group of Mi Hazank has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply, so that, due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence, he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. The question now follows from the question of the representative of the Group of Mi Hazan, that is to say, Congressman István Szabadi, who wishes to ask the Prime Minister: "Why don't you appreciate your own workers? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán, the Prime Minister's political director, was entitled to respond. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-156	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Political Director, Our Hungary Movement didn't do nothing in the summer, because we created an anonymous reporting interface where we specifically addressed the employees of public bodies and companies, because their opinion is important to us. So we asked them, of course, without a name or any identification, to feel free to share their views and experiences with us. We have already received thousands of notifications to our call, which we promise we will keep translating to you, but obviously, due to the shortness of time, I can only highlight a few examples. Teachers commute up to 40-50 kilometers a day due to a shortage of numbers, after which the school districts have been accounting for 9 forints per kilometer for years, without receiving cafetheria. Service staff in schools, such as economic administrators and cleaners, are looking for minimum wage. At the Volánbusz, bus drivers carry the most expensive cargo in the world, people, and they do so up to 200 hours a month, but after 20 years of employment, they earn gross HUF 300,000 a month. As of January this year, employees in the social and child protection sector have not increased the total salary, but only the combined social sector bonus by 20 percent, which means a total of HUF 1 000 per month for a worker with a secondary vocational qualification, which has been on the field for 20 years. In the army, professional personnel are now not allowed to be decommissioned because of the war emergency, while in international terms it is a disgrace as much as they earn, and in foreign missions the Hungarian soldier gets the least. I ask the honourable political director to answer when they will finally realise that the functioning of the administration depends primarily on workers who are conscientious and humble in their work every day, why they exercise their employers' rights through intimidation, and why they do not engage in constructive dialogue with trade union representatives. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-10-03-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to political director Balázs Orbán. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Government of Hungary recognises the work of both those employed by the State and, in particular, those employed by armed bodies, education, social institutions and public transport companies. I think that these words of appreciation are important, but what is more important is what the Government of Hungary has been trying to deliver to these social groups in the last 12 years. If we go through these social groups one by one, both in the field of education, in the field of defence, law enforcement and in the field of other central administrative and local government administration workers, in public companies, we can see that we have made very serious wage increases depending on the country's capacity to carry on the burden. If you ask the question and ask the workers in the sectors whether there is room for it, you actually need to make additional wage increases in these sectors, then, of course, the Government of Hungary will answer that in a uniform way. It is very important that we continue to raise wages. It's part of our catch-up. At the moment, however, there is a very serious crisis situation, and this very serious crisis is dependent on failed sanctions policies in Brussels. This is important because in this context we have launched a social consultation, we call it a national consultation. It is also important for us to ask people about the most important issues that concern them. I think that if you are thinking about such consultations, then we must join forces, I ask you to encourage your voters to complete this consultation, say no together to the sanctions in Brussels, then the energy crisis will end, and then we will be able to promise additional wage increases as they go to everyone. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-159	Thank you very much, Director. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Mr István Szabadi. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Political Director, I cannot accept your answer because, on the basis of the opinions received, and I say there are thousands of them, despite the introduction of career models in the various sectors of public administration in recent years, the example of doctors shows best that they are not competitive in the short term. Whoever can do it has fled to the private sector. Many of the workers do not know or do not leave the administration because of their age or other family situation. Few good professionals carry the work on their backs, and if they fall out, the system could collapse. The situation will only escalate when they receive the first winter bill, or the two or three mandatory Covid vaccinations, or don't give it to us, God, with another immune system weakened by compulsory vaccinations, they will have to tolerate education at 18 degrees: be glad that they have any place to work, as almost everyone has indicated to us that they have received such instruction. You're over three government cycles in a row and the fourth one's only at the beginning. Did you really run out of tools to motivate the workers? Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the political director. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-162	Mr President, in order to steer the debate into the field of numbers, since 2010, the real value of net average earnings has increased by 70 percent. The gross average salary was HUF 500,000, the net average salary was HUF 332,000, this is 15 percent higher than it was a year ago. From January 2022, the minimum wage also increased to HUF 200,000, and the guaranteed minimum wage is HUF 260 thousand. We can undertake to accept further increases as soon as the country's economic strength allows us to do so. I would like to add so much to you, as you have also raised the overhead issue that energy prices are the lowest in Hungary, both gas and electricity prices, within the European Union, in all EU capitals. This is guaranteed by the reduction of the rent. Every month, every Hungarian family receives HUF 181 thousand government support. We are not asking you to praise the Government of Hungary for this, but that when we are fighting against the sanctions policy in Brussels, at least then we should be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Political Director. Dear House, Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have a representative of the LMP who would like to ask the next question, who is also Mr László Keresztes Lóránt, who addressed his question to the Minister of Agriculture: what does the government do? It's an address. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We are in times of crisis, we are in times of crisis, and the government should act accordingly. We have to face the consequences of climate change, which has brutal effects on Hungary, we know that, and we have to deal with an energy crisis that has found the country in a very vulnerable position due to government policy. But we have to face, Mr State Secretary, a serious water crisis, which, in itself, is a much bigger challenge than the energy crisis, even though we are talking less about it in these weeks. [[18.00]] We are listening to Mr Prime Minister's large speeches on the political future, and he generally does not talk about the fact that we are facing ever longer and more severe droughts. And the Prime Minister does not say that our water management is not suitable to deal with this situation and that there is no proper use of landscapes. The Prime Minister does not talk about the protection of water bases, the dangers to surface waters. The government has no word that more water is flowing from Hungary today than it has arrived. I mean, six cubic kilometers a year is a loss, which means practically three Balatons of water. So Hungary is currently being drained because of our failed water management, and this government is also idly watching it, otherwise the previous Balliberal governments were also idly watching it. At the same time, János Áder recently made a statement that the drama of water, water, and contaminated water would unfold before our eyes. At the same time, in this drama, this government has a responsibility, and its predecessors have a responsibility. It is clear that this water management we are experiencing now, so water management aimed at draining water as quickly as possible will result in the country's desiccation, and there is a need for a basic change of approach here, and water retention water management is needed, and appropriate landscape use is needed. Is the government prepared to make this change? Has the government prepared to implement, by the way, the strategy that Professor Ángyán put on the table in 2012 in his rural strategy? There, too, he described how water management should be changed and basically kept in the soil. I hope we get an encouraging, forward-looking response from the Secretary of State.
u2022-10-03-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be received from Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, who has been authorised to respond. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-166	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, He brought up my favourite topic, because my profession as an irrigation and melioration engineer, so he put it in the right place, and I'm very happy to be able to answer. The only problem is that time is extremely short, but I'd like to reassure you. The Government of Hungary is fully aware of the climatic changes, what this drought has not been experienced in Hungary for over a century, and this is not the only thing that has highlighted the problems we have with water management in recent years and decades. Water management is the most important in itself, and a part of it is irrigation farming, which can also help in local climatic conditions. Of course, I do not want to jinx this, Mr honourable Member, but hopefully there will be a government decision in the autumn that will create a close correlation and methodology between water management and irrigation management. I think that this programme will not be for a year, not for two, but for the decades to come and its effects, but here, as a professional issue, I must note that water management will, of course, be rethinked. And in irrigation farming, it makes me wonder that today there was irrigation in Hungary on some 110 thousand hectares, even though it was on 350-370 thousand hectares in the 1970s, and that compensation law, that post-system change period, basically covered this whole structure. This must now be restored not only by reservoirs, but also by sewer networks, but also by rethinking and rethinking proper water management and irrigation with farmers. I'll keep going, thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-03-167	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Keresztes.
u2022-10-03-168	Thank you very much. Mr President, Well, Secretary of State, I can't say that I'm reassured because they've been ruling for 12 years, and we can see the problems, but we can't see the action in any way, we can't see the government realizing the tragic consequences of this kind of water management draining the country. In recent months, you have talked about irrigation over the past six months, but, Mr. Secretary, if we are now watering 1.5 percent of the land, and you have made a statement that you want to get to the point where 6 percent of the land is watered in a ten-year perspective, well, I don't think that in itself explains why this doesn't calm us, but it is also clear that irrigation alone doesn't provide water in the landscapes. We therefore need a fundamental change of perspective, basically keeping water in the landscape, but this requires a fundamental change in support policy and investment based on landscape conditions. We are very open to discuss this in detail at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I have sent an invitation to the Minister, which I am very pleased about. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that with a positive feedback you have already indicated, Minister, that you are willing to take part. My goal is to give professionals, farmers and civilians all the opportunity to finally sit at the same table and finally have a fundamental change of perspective. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2022-10-03-169	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister will take the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-170	Congressman, we will pay serious attention to water retention. So far, we've tried different reservoirs, which have kept the winter rain under control. Once again, farming needs a new approach, and you are absolutely right in this case, and this is a professional issue. I don't want to get into this because it doesn't belong here, but it also has to be restructured in the minds of farmers. It is extremely important to convert to a part of organic farming. You mentioned Professor Ángyán's time. I would like to tell you that the needs and opportunities of the Chamber of Agriculture and the farmers' circles are all taken into account, so that goes beyond what Professor Ángyán tried to force us to do here. With a new approach and a completely different water management, as far as it is possible to put it differently, today, the 21st century. We would like to launch this programme in the same way as the 1st century, from planning to full implementation. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-171	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear House, Congresswoman Boglárka Illés, Member of the Parliament of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Can the foreign financing of the dollar-left be accepted? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the absence of Minister Balázs Fürjes has appointed Secretary of State to respond. Thank you very much, you indicate to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Illés Boglárka, Member of Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The dollar left has done something recently, Péter Márki-Zay, the fallen Prime Minister's candidate on the dollar left, which has not been the case in the last 30 years. He admitted to the full Hungarian public that they received billions of campaign grants from abroad. In 2019, Márki-Zay reported on an American trip where he met Soros organizations and openly raised money for his campaign. On another occasion, he also told me that Zoltán Kész and he went on a fundraising tour to the United States. It is memorable that during this year's election campaign, an article was published and quickly disappeared on the columns of 168 Hours with the title Soros behind Márki-Zay. According to the article, Ferenc Gyurcsány himself said this at a limited campaign meeting, and even Márki-Zay himself told us that he had made an alliance with the Soros' American campaign team, Action for Democracy. I quote him: Zömmel and I work from a few thousand forints of Hungarian donors, but a few days ago we reached an agreement with the American Action for Democracy organized by Marton Kati, which collects money from Hungarians living outside for our campaign. This has been confirmed: once again, international globalist forces have tried to intervene in the Hungarian elections, in violation of Hungary's sovereignty. One of the most important questions is: what did George Soros ask for, and what would he expect in return for these amazing money in the future? It is well known that Ferenc Gyurcsány is the leader of the dollar left. He and the other parties had to know about these money. Dear Secretary of State, The question therefore rightly arises: is it acceptable for anyone from abroad to support the Hungarian left with money in an election campaign? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-10-03-173	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Balázs Fürjes responds to what has been said.
u2022-10-03-174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In times of difficult challenges, it would be very important for political parties to agree on important, fundamental issues, so that there is a genuine national unity. On three issues, the full agreement of the parliamentary parties would be particularly good, all three being linked to the European Union. [[18.10]] It would be good if we could agree that the most important thing for the European Union should be peace, an immediate truce, immediate peace talks and early peace talks, and that is what the EU should represent in relation to the war. It would be important not to impose sanctions on any energy carrier, and it would be important for Hungary to have access to the EU funds it deserves. At the same time, it is not possible for the national unity, because the left is not in control of itself, has lost independence, has decided that in exchange for money, financial support, in exchange for millions of dollars for the campaign, the united opposition, the left, will give up its independence and allow them to dictate from abroad, tell them from abroad what position to take on decisive national issues, and these foreign forces will not allow us to agree on these issues. So here Hungary cannot count on the left to enforce the national interest. Of course, the questions you have raised are very serious questions. It is not good to expect the opposition, the left in any way, in the formation of national unity, in action against the Union, in such a difficult time. At the same time, I am confident that the competent authorities, the State Audit Office or the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, will find these cases in depth. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-176	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I think we can say that it is not news to anyone that George Soros is fond of supporting war and sanctions, and we can also say that Action for Democracy is linked to George Soros, just as the fallen PM candidate from the dollar-left admitted that Action for Democracy gave them support for the campaign. I would say, or we could ask whether such unsuitable formations will be invested from abroad in the future, but unfortunately we see that the left is still on the side of sanctions, but I very much hope that they will change that in the next period. I also hope that the authorities will explore what is clear as day, and I also hope that voters will continue to decide on the basis of common sense who they invest in. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-177	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Balázs Fürjes, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-178	Obviously, it would be naive to think that some people support the left with millions of dollars, billions of forints, and they don't want anything in return. I'm sure those who wired this huge amount of money to the left have asked for the price. Let's put together some statements. The candidate for Prime Minister says that they received HUF 2 billion for the left-wing campaign, and Ágnes Kunhalmi, Socialist Co-President, says: "The opposition is misinterpreted, unfortunately, in many respects it is blocked from the vast majority of its own voting base. He has been trying to live up to a very narrow system of expectations for a very long time, and if someone tries to quit, or talks or tries to speak in a different voice, they will kill him, and that is what the socialist representative Ágnes Kunhalmi says about themselves. They have no room for manoeuvre because they gave up for money. I hope the whole truth comes out. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: why does the Left support sanctions measures? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Secretary of State to reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We all see that we are faced with a prolonged war, and the elite in Brussels has not taken a realistic view of the issue. He was not telling the truth on two things: on the one hand, that the sanction would contribute to the end of the war as soon as possible and, on the other hand, that the sanctions would not be extended to energy prices. However, he promised that sanctions would be able to bring Russia to its knees and that it would hurt Russia, not Europe. After seven sanctions packages, we have to account for where we are now. For Russia, sanctions amounted to EUR 158 billion in revenue, of which EU citizens paid EUR 85 billion. It is therefore an important issue, and it is important for us, the Hungarian Government, to ask people, in contrast to the left, what they think about sanctions. The left did not support the reduction in Hungarian families' overhead, but said yes to the sanctions that caused the energy crisis. Péter Márki-Zay, Klára Dobrev, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Anna Orosz supported the sanctions in Brussels. This is why it is a very important issue that, through the national consultation that we involve people and that they can take part in the decision-making process, we ask their views first in the European Union. The Hungarian Government continues to represent a culture of peace and security, so I would like to ask Mr State Secretary why the Left supports sanctions measures. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-181	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-182	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There's been a series of crises here over the past few years. Not long ago, a few years ago, we wouldn't have thought or thought that such a migration crisis would come, and then that we would have to face a global epidemic and that there would be a war after all in our neighbourhood. And the Hungarian government has always been driven and guided by one thing in the course of the challenges and decisions, to represent the Hungarian interests and the interests of the Hungarian people. In recent years and in recent elections, the Hungarian people have honoured us with their trust over and over again, and with a serious and large majority, and it must be said that the left is traditionally and traditionally now or in a historical perspective, if the Hungarian people drive it away in Hungary, they are trying to gain political support abroad or, as we can see, financial support and convert it into political power in Hungary. I can continue, as Secretary of State Fürjes said, because if someone is paid, they will obviously ask for the price, there is no free money here or anywhere else, but this is another question. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] So there's no free money here, and they're asking the left-hand side for the price of the money. [[Róbert Répássy: Béla Kovács. You know. Dr. László György Lukács: Congratulations on your success!]] As Jobbik, who arrives on the left, knows exactly. So the price... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's be lenient about frustration. [[Defiance on the pro-government side. Dr. László György Lukács: We are not frustrated, we did not vote for the sanctions.]] So the price is obviously asked, and if the price is contrary to the Hungarian interest, the left still represents what the person who pushed the chip, the money, is asking him to do. It is contrary to the Hungarian interest that they are doing, and this can also cause frustration. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to try and endure this twice a minute. [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: We made it a little exciting.]] I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász in return.
u2022-10-03-184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We won the elections exactly six months ago, we were given a two-thirds mandate from the Hungarian people, which also predescending us to be able to consider and reconsider decisions that could be corrected. After the seventh sanction package, we see that sanctions have caused more harm to Europe than they have, and it is therefore very important to make a revision of this, since the penalty premium can stay with us for many years. Our task is to represent this review, and that is why the national consultation has a huge role to play. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-03-185	Thank you very much. Mr. Tamás Menczer is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-186	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the congresswoman on the subject of national consultation. They look down on this shape, that's the truth. Let's face it and let's say that they look down on the Hungarian left and in international politics, they look down on the fact that the Hungarian government launches a regular national consultation and asks the Hungarian people's opinion on life-changing issues. They look down on him, and they tell me what the point is, it's stupid. However, the Hungarian government's position is clear: we want to create points of understanding on matters of vital importance, on matters affecting the lives of all of us, whether our children or the lives of our grandchildren, and we also create these points of understanding, we give the Hungarian people the opportunity to express their views, and that, if they see fit, they will support and strengthen the Hungarian Government in the course of various international battles, debates and battles, and also during the debates with the Hungarian left. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[18.20]]
u2022-10-03-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 6:20 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. There is now an opportunity to speak on a point of order. I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, in one minute. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. With all due respect, I would like to ask you a question here, following one of the State Secretary's replies, that the use of the word "csicska" corresponds to the expectation that we must preserve the dignity of the Parliament during the debates. I do not think so, but the President's opinion is much more relevant on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Bence Rétvári: What is the point of order?]]
u2022-10-03-189	You must have noticed, Congressman, that I have made a point because I have asked the honourable parties to refrain from personalising themselves. Unfortunately, this also makes it sound harsher, but I hope that everyone will try to avoid these expressions from their lecturer dictionary. Dear Parliament, It follows that, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2010 CXXX on legislation will follow. Act and Act CXXXI of 2010 on social participation in the preparation of legislation. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/705. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, on 29 September 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed CXXX of 2010 on legislation in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Act and Act CXXXI of 2010 on participation in society in the preparation of legislation. T/705 amending Act No. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 29 votes in favour, no votes against and 8 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to reach an early agreement between the government and the European Commission with regard to the RRF commitments. The norm has been established by adopting several recommendations from the European Commission. The bill therefore includes provisions imposing additional obligations on the government in the course of social consultation, additions to the control and sanctioning of the government control body, as well as the tightening of the provisions on opinion and provisions to avoid social consultation. The proposal also includes rules to improve the effectiveness of impact assessments. It is accordingly amended by the 2010 CXXX on legislation. Act CXXXI of 2010 on social participation in the preparation of legislation. Law. The Legislative Committee has adopted an amendment to the proposal, which includes both substantive technical amendments and additions. The European Commission sent its opinion to the government in the summer, and the amendment was submitted accordingly. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2022-10-03-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State, to make use of the opportunity to speak. Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Deputy Minister, to the fact that you have a total period of 15 minutes for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of a possible closing phrase. So what you're using from 15 minutes to present the proposal is that much less time to close. Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-10-03-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to briefly present the major changes contained in the summarised amendment tabled to the bill. In the submitted bill, the government undertook that, in the case of draft legislation falling within the scope of the Act on Social Participation in the Preparation of Laws, if published in the Hungarian Gazette, 90% would be the proportion of draft legislation that participates in social consultation. As a result of discussions with the European Commission, the bill is expected to be added to the adoption of the summarised amendments, in addition to the above, that the government should be responsible for the adoption of the proposal 5. § 3 and 4 exceptions shall be applied only in justified cases, and impact assessments of draft legislation shall be carried out in accordance with Article 8. In all cases, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 3 of Section 3, please appear on the government website in addition to the draft legislation for social consultation. On the basis of the submitted bill, the 90 percent commitment is presented in the annual report of the government audit body. As a result of the parliamentary debate, the legislative proposal is expected to be supplemented by the deadline for publication of the report on 31 January each year and by a rule that the body auditing European grants will testify to the achievement of this objective in its annual report by 31 March of the following year. The bill provides for the possibility of fines if the government does not comply with the rules of the law. As a result of the proposed amendment, in order to fully comply with the Commission's recommendations, the government audit body will not be able to, but will be obliged to impose fines in the event of failure to implement the obligation. The proposed amendment is also intended to set a time limit for the imposition of a fine, two months from the date of the audit, which ensures that failure to comply with the obligation results in an effective and rapid real consequence. The amending proposal also states that the level of the fine should be set in such a way that it is sufficiently dissuasive against the perpetrators of infringements. In order to fully comply with the Commission's recommendations, a transitional provision is expected to be added to the bill on the basis of which the report of the governmental audit body and the body auditing European grants will be prepared for the first time for the period from 30 September 2022 to 31 December 2022. For the fractional period, the reports shall summarise draft legislation submitted for consultation with government bodies after 30 September 2022. Mr President, Dear House, Please support the legislative committee's amendment proposal and the bill, the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-193	Dear Secretary of State, I thank you for your speech. I would like to inform you that you will have a total of 11 minutes and 20 seconds for further comments and closing words in the debate. [[18.30]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. You can see the timeframes on both sides of our billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. As no one has spoken in writing, I would like to ask my fellow Members that they wish to speak in the context of the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Since there was no substantive debate, Mr Secretary of State has nothing to answer. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and the debate on the draft amending proposal to reach agreement with the European Commission. The government referral T/1202. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear House, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-194	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that on 29 September 2022 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1202 amending certain laws to reach agreement with the European Commission. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. 28 votes in favour, no votes against and 9 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The obligation to cooperate with the European Anti-Fraud Office was published in the domestic legal order at the time of accession to the European Union. However, there were no procedural rules contained in the legislation and there were no provisions concerning the possible enforcement of cooperation or the applicable legal consequences. The amendment of the bill before us fills the regulatory shortcomings of this. The proposed legislative amendments will enable the financial support of OLAF's on-the-spot checks to be implemented. 21X of 2004 on certain legislative amendments relating to accession to the European Union, repealing legal provisions and laying down certain legal provisions The amendment of Law No 1 provides the conditions for the use of the financial officer's measure and contains a reference to the NAV Act, which regulates the applicable financial measures. The amendment allows the NAV to impose an administrative penalty which is dissuasive if the person concerned is not liable to comply with his duty of cooperation. The proposal also aims to strengthen the essential requirements for the functioning of organisations, integrity and the application of transparent and fair contractual procedures for public trust foundations with a public service mission, as well as to complement public procurement and conflict of interest rules. The Legislative Committee adopted six amendments to the proposal. The amendments are adapted to the Commission's expectations. Dear House, The bill before us contains recommendations in line with the Commission's request. The adoption of this will allow for an agreement between the Government and the Commission. In view of all this, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening, Mr President.
u2022-10-03-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I now ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Minister of State for Justice, to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] I would like to inform you that you still have a 15-minute time frame. As much as you use to present the presentation, the time frame will come down from 15 minutes and it will be possible to close accordingly. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Please allow me to briefly present the major changes contained in the summary amendment tabled for the bill. The title of the bill has changed compared to the state in which the bill was submitted, so the bill is entitled:. The amendment of the laws relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources relating to certain public-interest trust foundations, the National Tax and Customs Office and the controls of the European Anti-Fraud Office. It is important to point out that the scope of the laws to be amended by the bill has been broadened, so that the Act on Parliament, the Act on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them, the Act on Government Administration, the Law on Public Service Officers and the Law on Local Governments in Hungary are amended. The laws to be amended were extended in order to bring the rules of individual legal status laws into line with the rules of conflicts of interest of public-service trust foundations. It should be stressed that the bill states that, when applying the conflict of interest rules concerned, conflicts of interest should always be assessed individually, in the light of specific foundational action, decision-making or activity. In all cases, the focus of the weighing shall be to ensure that the decision-making process is free of influence as a result of the weighing. On the practical side, this means that if the data subject detects that the activity he is performing or the decision he should be involved in may raise any of the causes of conflict of interest, he must declare a conflict of interest and not take part in the decision-making process or carry out the activities concerned. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the objective nature of the person concerned cannot be based on the existence of a conflict of interest. Consequently, the conflict of interest should be assessed individually for each decision proposal. Thank you very much for your attention and for your support for the summary amendment and the adoption of the bill.
u2022-10-03-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to thank you for your speech and to inform you that you will have a total time frame of 12 minutes and 20 seconds for further comments in the debate and for closing. I will also inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. The timeframes are shown on both sides of the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. No one has made a written statement, so I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. Yes, Congressman László Keresztes of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-198	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you a few questions. When these trust foundations were born, when the laws related to this were passed by your faction, I drew attention many times to the amazing situation in Hungary. If we are just talking about the outsourcing of higher education: state universities have practically been outsourced to private foundations, and there have been large numbers of politicians who are not only attached to you, but also have a specific political or governmental position. So we have ministers, MPs, mayor here, excuse me, deputy mayor. I have counted 28 Fidesz politicians who either have or have had formal political or government positions. In addition, this outsourcing was carried out by giving these state universities to the foundations by handing over the founding right, so these board of trustees can decide to replace their own members. [[18.40]] These curatorial positions will never cease. I understand that until the age of 80, a curator can serve as a curator, and they choose to succeed, so technically, these universities of state assets have been handed over to foundations led by fidesz politicians, which, according to your intentions, are irreparable. In comparison, you are bringing in a proposal that is very difficult to imagine even for a symptomatic treatment, because here the phama is about, your proposal is about, and that is what Minister Tibor Navracsics also said, that these politicians do not need to give up their curatorship, they can stay in the bodies that are otherwise all-powerful and capable of making decisions, even if they are ministers, Members of Parliament and the rest have to indicate by such a weird procedure if they do not know what conflicting situation they are in. I believe that this is unacceptable, and I think that this is far from enough to ensure that the concerns about your outsourcing practices can be dealt with in a satisfactory manner. There were virtually thousands of billions of public assets. The largest rural universities, universities with 20,000 students, thousands of employees, have been outsourced, such as the University of Pécs, whose budget alone is greater than the budget of the municipality of Pécs. So these universities represent a huge intellectual value, a huge cultural value. These large rural universities define not only the development, development policy and employment policy of the particular city, but also the region and the region, and you have put these universities under virtually fidesz political control, with a decision. You have often said that your goal with this university model change is to separate universities from the state, from the government; well, you have done this, but not from Fidesz. So you transferred state universities from the state to Fidesz politicians' foundations in such a way that cycles later, let's say, when Fidesz does not govern, these politicians will decide on these extremely important institutions for the most important issues. In order to make this debate even understandable, I have proposed amendments to this law, in order to make it clear that once this outsourcing has already taken place, which we have not agreed with for a minute, these individuals with different specific positions and government political positions should not be members of the Curatoriums. I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State that the Government supports these amendments, the Government supports that, if this outsourcing has already taken place, not only such pretend measures should be taken in the area of conflict of interest, but also that steps should be taken to ensure that conflicts of interest can be enforced, more precisely, excluded, so that people with such clear political ties are not allowed to occupy a seat among the curators of foundations that maintain such important institutions. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate for a period of 12 minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I did not think it necessary to continue this debate because the points or criticisms raised by you were not the criticisms of the law that we have just tabled, but of the law in force, so you actually said why you did not agree with this law at the time. But what concerns this statement is that I have heard this debate for many years, but I do not know exactly what kind of aspect, constitutionality or democracy or what aspect it would be, but you do not think that it is appropriate that politicians can sit in these curatoriums, and I have been hearing this debate for many years, but it has not exactly been marked what is the law or the standard in which it would run into, because we cannot talk about conflicts of interest until we can tell what this position is incompatible with. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the European Commission has, in particular, objected to the fact that, for the purposes of the use of EU funds, these posts are incompatible with the effective and transparent use of EU funds. But I would add that the debate was not about the conflict of interest of the office, but about whether or not to give these subsidies to Hungary. You must remember that the European Commission has made a decision that precisely these foundations cannot be paid for. In Hungarian, the European Union examined this issue from the point of view of the financial interests of the Union, and in terms of the financial interests of the Union it required the Hungarian Parliament to establish rules of conflict of interest. In the view of the Government, this aspect, which the Union is accountable for, concerns specific decisions, since it is not possible to measure all decisions with such a standard that they are in breach of the Union's financial interests or not. Obviously, for example, personal decisions, such as organisational decisions relating to the university or to the maintenance, cannot be called incompatible with the financial interests of the Union. So what I'm trying to say is that I'm trying to respect the law in force, and I'm trying to solve, on behalf of the government, the problem that the European Commission has turned to the government. In these proposals, in the bill, the government has found an appropriate solution to eliminate conflicts of interest. You can think about the need to amend the law, but you are a Member of Parliament, that if you think that you are taking a legislative initiative in this regard, of course, it will be discussed by the committees and taken into consideration or taken into consideration in a series of subjects. As regards the question of the Government's support for the amendments tabled by you, I recall that this was discussed by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and that this proposal did not receive a majority at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Therefore, the amendments proposed by you are no longer included in the summarised amendments. It's a formal reason, but it's true. It is therefore a formal reason that only proposals that have been included in the summary amendment, which we are discussing, have received the majority vote of the Commission. I would be happy to take part once in a debate with you or even in a plenary session on whether these laws are in line with the law in force, but this is not the subject of this debate, but specifically the protection, perceived or genuine violation of the European Union's financial interests, and in this respect, the Government's proposals address the Commission's objections, at least the objections expressed to us. If you have any further objections to the European Commission, you will tell us. I find it difficult to imagine that the European Commission will say that it will take the political position that certain parties belonging to specific parties, or persons belonging to the government or opposition, should not participate in these Boards. I do not think that the European Commission has such a deep right to speak in Hungarian legislation. It can only protect the European Union's financial interests, and it is right to do so if it is to protect it. But what conflict of interest the Parliament has in relation to its own Members of Parliament or politicians, I do not think this is a matter for the European Commission or for us to say it more elegantly, this part of our sovereignty has not been passed on, and we do not exercise it together with the European Union, so I believe that the conflict of interest of politicians will be regulated by the Hungarian legislator in the future. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the monitoring of the use of EU budget resources and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now in order. [[18.50]] The government referral is T/1260. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-202	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 29 September 2022 the T/1260 on the control of the use of EU budget resources. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report from the committee are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It received 28 votes in favour, with 9 abstentions and no votes against, and thus adopted by the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, In the framework of the conditioning procedure Hungary has undertaken as a corrective measure to establish integrity and integrity, as well as the anti-corruption task force. The bill before us sets out laws on these institutions. In the context of integrity, it should be pointed out that it will function as an autonomous administrative body independent of the government. Accordingly, the authority is subject only to law and cannot be ordered in its function, it will perform its task separately from other bodies, without any influence. The task for the authority can only be imposed by law. The task force will be in favour of integrity. The working group will be an analytical, proposing, consulting and decision-making body independent of the authority. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment to the proposal, which included additions to linguistic and technical specifications. As a whole, the amending proposal re-regulates the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. the rules on conflicts of interest in order to ensure better consistency with the law of the European Union. Dear House, In order to reach a successful agreement with the European Commission, I urge you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2022-10-03-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State for Justice, Mr Deputy Minister, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Yeah. I need to inform you of the same time as before that you have a 15-minute time frame, and as much time as you use to justify the submission, you will have less time to close. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The summarised amendment tabled for the bill, although it contains mainly linguistic and technical clarifications, complements the proposal with the following detailed rules, which I would like to briefly summarise as follows. 1. In the context of the operation of integrity, the following major changes are included in the amending proposal. In order to fully comply with the European Commission's recommendations, the bill will refer in several places to other Hungarian legislation, where the authority will be given a task. Since the Authority will keep an official register of economic operators excluded from public procurement procedures, the amending proposal will amend the rules relating to the production of the register on several points, specifying which other registers and what data the authority will receive in relation to its functions as record keeping. 2. In the context of the Authority's organisation, the following major changes are included in the amending proposal. The Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson of the Authority shall hold the post by tender. The tender shall be valid if there are at least a number of persons equal to twice the number of posts to be filled. In the event of an invalid tender, the tender shall be re-opened. According to the bill submitted, the repeated application would have been valid regardless of the number of applicants, but in order to fully comply with the Commission's recommendations, the amendment states that the same validity rules as the first tender will apply. The statement of assets and conflicts of interest of the President and Deputy Chairman of the Authority shall be monitored annually by the Competent Committee as proposed by the amending proposal. This time frame was not included in the proposal submitted. 3. In the context of the suitability committee, the following major changes are included in the amending proposal. A major change in the eligibility committee is that members will receive daily allowances from the European Union Technical Assistance Audit Body according to the relevant rate for European Union technical assistance and will be obliged to make a declaration of conflict of interest. 4. It is a guarantee new provision that the anti-corruption task force should be established by 1 December 2022. 5. The cardinality clause will be abandoned. 6. The proposal as a whole is re-regulated by the Public Procurement Act 25. In order to ensure better consistency with the law of the European Union, the rules on conflicts of interest laid down in Article 4 of the Treaty. Dear House, These are the most important changes compared to the submitted bill, which will be incorporated in the bill if the summarised amendment is adopted. I therefore ask the Parliament with respect to support the summarised amendment proposal, and finally to vote in favour of the proposal, the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-03-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you for your speech. I would like to inform you that you will have 11 minutes and 20 seconds in total for further comments and closing words in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to address the time-frames on the agenda, which may be followed by my fellow Members on the billboards. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. Since no one has spoken in writing, I respectfully ask my fellow Members that they wish to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to take the opportunity to close. [[Dr. Répássy Robert says no.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal are now in order. The government referral T/1261. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-03-206	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 29 September 2022 the T/1261 amending certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. Bill No. 1. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. pursuant to Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 29 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. [[19.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in the context of the amendment of certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. It contains amendments to its provisions concerning freedom of information. The aim of the proposal is to remove the possibility of setting compensation for the disproportionate use of the workforce from the info law system and to set cost limits for the remaining cost elements in the Government Regulation. The proposal also institutionalises and lays down the rules of operation of the Internal Audit and Integrity Directorate, which will be established under the Prime Minister's Office. The Management Board will carry out its statutory tasks related to the control of the use of EU funds, in particular the verification of the validity of declarations of conflicts of interest. The bill also includes provisions on requests for data of general interest to eliminate specific rules applicable in the event of an emergency. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment to the proposal, which set out technical clarifications and additions. Dear House, I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2022-10-03-207	Thank you very much, Congressman Vecsey. I welcome my fellow Members and ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, whether he wishes to reply now or later. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: Now!]] Now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-03-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As has already been the case, I would like to inform you briefly about the major changes that have been made to this House in the summary amendment. The bill contains technical changes compared to the state of the submission, i.e. clarification and clarification of the logical links between the listing points, the rules of competence and the classification of the law. It should also be pointed out that the bill also regulates that the tasks of the Deputy State Secretarys for Managing Authority tasks may also be entrusted with the implementation of the recovery and resilience plan, given that the RRF is not part of the European Union's multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027 but is a temporary financial instrument to encourage recovery. Dear House, I would ask you to support the summary amendment and the bill. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-03-209	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches by the Members are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, which can be read on the table. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. No one came forward in writing. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, and the debate is closed. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech.
u2022-10-03-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I would like to talk about an issue that is very important to Pécs, which largely determines the future of our city, but which is far from national. Basically, I will talk about the water sector, the water sector, the water utilities sector. We know that today the most important public service is on the brink of collapse in Hungary, the water utility system and the infrastructure attached to it are in extremely poor condition. We know that the situation was difficult already in 2010, the government's legacy was difficult, but that the government's measures since then, as well as the important measures and important steps that have not been taken, have made the situation worse: since 2011, the number of failures has doubled nationwide in the water utility sector and water supply infrastructure, with a network loss of 22 percent today, so 22 percent of the drinking water produced will flow without use due to the bad pipeline network. It is estimated that around HUF 3000 billion is missing from the sector in the medium term to carry out replacement and maintenance work. Tettye Forrásház Zrt. in Pécs. In its supply area, this amount is 20 billion, i.e. 20 billion forints is missing in the rolling development plan over the 15-year horizon, in addition to the existing resources, to ensure the smooth availability of the most important public service, i.e. drinking water and sanitation, and the protection of water bases. What we all know is that it is not expected of any Hungarian metropolitan city to deal with this huge problem on its own, without substantial public, central support. Zsolt Páva, mayor of Pécs before 2019, said several times when I asked him questions about the situation of the water utility sector in Pécs, and he himself said that the problems were constantly being signalled to the government, and that through the Association of City Rights in the County, the government was also alerted to the need to take action to ensure that this service continues to work in Hungary. In 2017, the Association of County-righted Cities, which was an association of Fidesz mayors, issued a very, very detailed report in which it was said that the infrastructure for the supply of drinking water in Hungary is in crisis. Now, the government has not listened to this report either, nor has it taken any meaningful steps, nor has it taken any other measures that have actually led to such a collapse: it has failed to save the sector, it has not adopted the measures proposed by the profession and the interest representatives. I myself, in order to free the city of Pécs, submit a large number of amendments every year, and that the cities of Pécs and Baranya County receive the funds needed from the central budget to maintain their drinking water supply, but they have been voted down by the Fidesz faction, so that the decision of the Fidesz fraction did not give Pécs any support in this year's central budget or in the next year's budget, so that the otherwise difficult water utility system could be put in order. Now, compared to this, the government has not faced the problems to this day, and even a procedure has been launched to effectively take away water resources from the municipalities with extortion, free of charge. The situation is clear: after this nationalization is completed, it is clear that the government is preparing for some kind of outsourcing, so they are preparing to give foreign control of our water resources, which in itself is an unacceptable step. By the way, even the Fidesz president of TÖOSZ, the National Association of Municipal Governments, said that they could hope that the government did not want to outsource this important infrastructure. We, too, believe and believe that this is fundamentally national, so it must be managed by local governments and by the state, but there is no guarantee of that. The mayor of Debrecen Fideszes also said that the water supply is a strategic plant that cannot be released from his hands by the municipality. This was a very good statement, and in Debrecen the municipality rejected nationalisation with full agreement, with the vote of Fidesz and opposition representatives. The city of Pécs does not hand over the water utilities to the government, and the municipalities of Szombathely, Szeged, Érd, Nagykanizsa, Baja, Eger and Budapest also decided to do so. The fact is that it has become clear that the government has no policy vision, no information, no coordination organisation that would carry out this huge task after nationalisation, but also that the government's activities do not have any resources planned for this year's budget or for next year's budget, so that such nationalised utility assets can be maintained. We therefore believe that this blackmailing process should be stopped, that Pécs and all rural cities should be given the resources to maintain the most important infrastructure, and that this sector should finally be under professional control and that the public utility tax should be introduced. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We expect the Pécs and, by the way, some pro-government representatives to support this important measure. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[19.10]]
u2022-10-03-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address.
u2022-10-03-212	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Today, with a festive toast, with a festive comment, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Rex Doghouse is 30 years old in Újpest, where we can learn a lot about the operation and activities of responsible animal farming. On this occasion, which we can treat as an event just before tomorrow's World Animal Day, special events and ways have been invented. Guinness record experimented to celebrate this 30th birthday at the Rex Dog Home, approaching, as I said, World Animal Day. Last Saturday, all concerned were expected to do so, who tried to set up the records of most adopted animals in one place and at the same time. We must admit that the American summit or the summit has not been overthrown, but we are confident that the time will come. This was a very exciting and very important moment in the life of the dog's home, as it does draw attention to the role of shelters and the treatment of the stray animal problem. I can safely say that there is a place in the country where almost 25,000 animals have been rescued, neutered or adopted in the last 30 years: on the animal island of the Rex Dog Home Foundation, where in addition to animal rescue, special attention has been paid to animal protection and attitudes from the beginning. Every year, thousands of people get to know the basics of responsible animal farming at their educational programmes and events. It was the whole day's celebration, which, by the way, took place this weekend, most recently in a family day on the occasion of the jubilee. It was a colorful program this time, a musician and dancer, and it was a moving, moving occasion for many children. By the way, the founder of Rex, Dr. Péter Király vet, was the idea of the Guinness record experiment. On the marked day, the plans of the house of responsible livestock were also presented and the brick campaign to assist in the implementation was also presented. They want to set up a national training center in the area of Rex Animal Island, which will help to change the attitude towards animals. This year, the house of responsible livestock, known as the construction of the Rexpedition, has also begun. In the long term, the only solution to many of the problems of animal protection can be a change of attitude in relation to animals. By the way, we hope that in the next few years, up to 100,000 visitors will be able to visit the first interactive exhibition of the country's dog and dog-keeping knowledge every year. In this place, as I mentioned, and I have this little 30-year report, which I can quote on the adoption of animals, organizing educational programs, operating a dog school, promoting all this at family events, which can otherwise be used to present team building trainings. But it works and worked this weekend, too, charity shop and webshop. Well, God bless everyone involved in this program for a long time. I trust that in the next 30 years, with a similarly responsible attitude, they will be able to pay attention to responsible animal farming, and that Rex Dog House and all its goals will be able to and will be achieved. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for your support. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-10-03-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the representative of DK, who has asked to speak after the agenda: he will ruin Debrecent because of Orbán's dream.
u2022-10-03-214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Well, there's nothing to see here, you can push away the little red bike for everyone; that's pretty much the Orbán regime's view of the Chinese battery factory on Debrecen, and I'm gonna add, 100 percent about legitimate residential fears. For although few people understand the complex, but even infinitely environmentally stressful, even environmental destruction process of battery production, there are many negative experiences and even well-founded research warnings now reaching those in Debrecen who are concerned about their future, their children's life and calm environment. For example, there is the deterrent case of the Samsung factory in Göd. Is that okay, too? all environmental requirements. They also promised that the inhabitants of the area would not have any negative experience in this regard, that the factory would avoid the poisoning of pollutants into the air, the water base, none of this could be done. Compared to this, we see that there are pollutants in the air, the water base is being poisoned, the constant noise and sound effects, instead of eliminating the ever more worrying dust pollution, they will only get money, say, from the government tellers to the residents. They don't see any money compared to this, but instead they have water base poisoning, continuous noise and sound effects, and pollution into the air. That was, wasn't it, the good promise, and, well, we see the reality: this is the busting reality I was just talking about, the water demand equal to the population consumption of Debrecen, the appearance of highly toxic lithium in the slowly golden water base in Göd. And, of course, the special economic zone classification in relation to the factory, which takes away even the taxes produced by the factory from the city. The cynical, pretentious response of the course in Orbán is nothing more than shriveling shoulders. But the scientists, and yes, I would note that, yes, Hungarian scientists are constantly ringing the alarm bell, that all this may happen in Debrecen, because of the effects of climate change that have already been experienced today, that it is very likely that it will simply dries out, but even in optimistic forecasts, even if not across the entire Tisza, but the Debrecen in the Quarter will almost certainly be damaged. And with this kind of knowledge, even for those who cling to Fidesz to the nails, or, to say the least, may I say, also have the stomachs of believers, that some crazy politicians in Debrecent are the billionaire Chinese baksh, some talmian judah money, who really condemns him to destruction because of whom. Because Europe's third, the biggest investment in Hungary so far, the giga, which will be built at the border of Debrecen, will simply siphon water from under the city, poison its dusty air and destroy our environment, make our beloved city unlivable. But apparently the investor doesn't care. The investor wants nothing but a market, a European reference. He doesn't seem to appreciate the peace of Debrecen, but maybe not even his life. Yet, in China, the same group has already stopped similar battery factories because of the problems that concern the Debrecen. Unfortunately, Orbán and his infinitely unscrupulous government don't care about all this, Orbán and his oligarchs want money at any cost; even at the cost of 200,000 peace, health or even life in Debrecen; a lot of money. And the investor promised me a lot of money. Maybe the Orbán's mind is already ringing, that's all that matters to them. The last thing the researchers will say is what they want, what they don't want, what they don't want. So they've already signed, pooped almost everything. The property has been sold, the project company has been created, the investment has already become a major government investment, and the billions stolen from Hungarian entrepreneurs, the cheated billions are pouring out of the investment. The investor has already announced that in 2025 this factory, if it breaks, if it breaks, will produce. No impact studies have been carried out, the licensing, we see, only virtual, the factory management and, of course, Orbán sleppje refuse to disclose only one data based on economic secrets, for example, with the composition of the sewage to be released by the factory, virtually nothing. [[19.20]] The investor is happy, Orbán-slepp is happy; Debrecen doesn't matter. Planned battlefield casualties, according to them. We believe, however, that with the fall of Orbán, the investment will be stopped immediately. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-03-215	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. Dear Parliament, Representative Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, asked to speak after the agenda. They became a museum of education with the title of our schools. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-10-03-216	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. October 5th, Wednesday this week is the World Teacher's Day, and this is not the same as the day of the early summer teacher's day. Since 94, this is the day that UNESCO celebrates the world day of teachers, the motto of which is very current this year:. Teachers: to lead in the crisis, to rethink the future, reflecting on the dedication that teachers around the world have shown in order to leave no one behind. Yeah, but our government has been abandoning teachers for several years and not hearing their voices. The teachers, children, and the parents behind them have had a tough, very hard time. But what's to come next? There would be extra rent for schoolteachers on strike; no salary would be paid during the termination of work; an hour's default would require an hour and a half's salary. It is a shame that you have to adapt to children, educators, schools heated with wood and coal, iron stoves and 18 degrees. They might as well teach classes under the open air, because it's cold outside and inside. At this temperature, children and teachers with colds will soon communicate only through a monitor. The school year's order has also been crossed and modified by a stroke of a pen, i.e. digital education can be ordered at any time. They strive to ensure the living conditions needed for teaching and learning by the teacher, the parent, or even the grandparent. There's no teacher, there's no money for heating, and it's all on the parents. There's a 30-percent increase in public catering. The cost of this will also be saved by the parent instead of the government, because he will eat, drink, or even starve the child at home. When the children ask the educator, "Why don't we learn in such a poor, harsh world, a teacher, and a teacher, then the answer will be to save money for the uncle of the state, because he can't. The government pays the school's rent, seven-time heating and double lighting bills to the families. Soon there will be no problem with the lack of a teacher. The government will solve this: parents will become unskilled home teachers and they will be able to balance the harmony of home office and home school. You have also brought the concepts unknown to date: educator strike, civil disobedience, rolling civil disobedience, strike claims, sufficient service, strike negotiations, deposited resignation letters, teachers turning to the Constitutional Court, TSAZ and amending the law on strike. Miskolc's prestigious high school, Herman Ottó High School, 12 years ago, had no idea that they would surround their school with black umbrellas, black clothing and live chains, and later they would sing for children, teachers and public education in Miskolc square; unfortunately, it was not heard until Parliament. It is unparalleled that György Dezsőfi, Deputy Head of High School, identified with the hopeless situation of his colleagues, has been relieved of his post. He's doing impeccable work, his students love him, his colleagues recognize him, respect his parents for it wasn't enough. There is no stopping, the power continues to set an example. Several teachers got kicked out of Kölcsey High School, that's the latest news. What was their crime? They took on a pre-arrested civil disobedience to stand for higher wage demands and to relieve teachers' burdens. I'm being demoted, fired, impossible, acquitted, intimidated, blackmailed by job tools and labour law. The conflict is growing, let alone shrinking. Their cynicism has already reached the level of professionalism. Their former teachers have told them many times: repetition is the mother of knowledge. Then again, the Hungarian teachers need respect, wage management, the elimination of free work, and the relief of the workload. Whether there is an online education or not, this academic year will certainly give up the lesson to everyone who is in contact with public education. And a little guidance: the value of governments is not how they are received, but how they are received. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-03-217	Thank you, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, applied for the day-to-day speech.
u2022-10-03-218	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We were celebrating the day of the elderly these days. Everyone remembered it very well. I watched the Facebook posts; all the politicians in the room posted nice quotes, touching pictures, the government even made promises to them, they got a little propaganda, they waved pension compensation, but in reality, who are the old people we're celebrating, the people we're talking about? This is the generation that changed the system in 1990, which voted for Hungary to become a democracy. Why would they do that? They knew Austria, they knew Western Europe, and they knew the Hungarian states. They longed for a decent, normal human life, a decent, normal wage, and therefore a decent, calm old age. They fought for it, fought for it, but what happened in the meantime? For the last 32 years, this generation has had nothing but a waste. Robbery governments of the last 32 years have taken everything from left to right. They started with privatisation, took the factories, decent jobs, wages, took the land, the cooperatives; they took everything they could, most of the time, into the hands of their own stooges, whoever they were. What have these people, who are now the elderly, of age? He used to call something minimum wage, while the stromans gained a lot of weight in every era. As a result, many of the elderly today in this world are forced to think about how and how they live in the days preceding retirement, because they simply cannot afford to feed themselves and feed themselves in a decent, human way. And they will be devastated by Fidesz's frivolousness, they will be the greatest indemnifications, the once active ages, because the rise in prices, the increase in food prices, which continues, will put them in a completely hopeless position. I'd like to draw the attention of the honoured hos to the fact that this was done by those who have warmed the benches here for the last 32 years. And what is the lesson for us, for the present generation and for the future generation? The need to stand up for ourselves must stand up for better so that democracy can be achieved in Hungary and these rights can be enforced. And now there's a group that we have to stand up for. These are the teachers. I'd ask everyone to stand up for the teachers, because they're the ones who are being threatened and crushed right now. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-03-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik, who has also applied for a statement after the agenda:.
u2022-10-03-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's right, I'd like to talk about election lies through examples from Somogyia, because this has been the last six months' break, my pause has not reduced anything in my Somogyország fanatism. I know that these examples are not some kind of curiosity, so they happened from Zahony to Zakány, all over Hungary. [[19.30]] From the pro-government side during the campaign, they said there'd be a way, they said there'd be tourism development, and they said there'd be security. Well, let's see what the ruble government's Orbán package has brought in instead of all this. First of all, he brought, say, 66 per cent of bread-cracking, over 30 per cent food price inflation, and then indeed, if you look at today's figures, he also brought a price of EUR 426 per cent. I don't want to blur out the international problems that really exist, the murderous sister war that is destroying our neighborhood, but we can't, we can't pin everything on it. We can see that if the government decides something, there will be money for it. It was or will be a loss of Vodafone's acquisition, which will simply be backed up by a full amount of security funds. Well, what hurts a lot there in South Somogy, for example, is that the renovation of road 68, this 95-kilometer road that connects Somogya from the north to the shore of Lake Balaton, has been swept down again. For 12 years, it has always come up before the elections, and the pro-government Members have always promised that, now they will certainly begin and renew this vital route. Then the whole story was like, say, the Bigfoot or the Loch Ness monster: everyone talked about it, but no one saw it. No one's seen the real, real remodeling of Route 68. It is stained on the back of a stain, I can safely say it, or not at all calmly, but if we had to compete on the main roads in Hungary, then I really think, and according to the people who live there, this would probably be the worst way for our country. Nothing really happens. With 55 billion forints, this could have been resolved in recent years, but instead the multiples of this could be used for the acquisition of Vodafone, which was mentioned earlier. The area, South Somogy, is virtually transformed into a traffic black hole on Hungary's logistics map, and we are finished. It can be said that the last rites were given to South Somogy, especially if we add that it had already been decided that if the M9 was to be built at some point, it would be carried on a new line opposite to the original, not in the east-west direction, but in a diagonal direction, thus increasing the lag of the region, actually sealing it permanently. And then they said there'd be tourism development. If you only think of Nagyatád, this beautiful spa town in South Somogy, it is sad to hear that hotels, catering facilities, are closing down in this settlement. Some say you shouldn't have been facing the wind... Here's the result, the government punishes the settlement. Eight days before the elections, the document of support promised to spend 1.2 billion forints on the development of the spa will be handed over to Nagyatád for the development of its gates in 1907 and is now 115 years old. The election has been made. It won't be hard to figure out what happened: the HUF 1.2 billion was requested back from the city, even though these spa development plans have been on the table of the Hungarian Tourism Agency for years, well-educated, well-founded plans that would have helped the development of the settlement and its stay. And there's a sad story right up your sleeve. For example, the running-off of overhead costs. It is not known what will be the fate of homes maintained by this NGO by the Somogy County Organisation for Limited Movements, because they are faced with a ninefold increase in gas prices, a 660 percent increase in energy prices that will be billed to them, and there is no response from the government to what will become of the 1600 people provided by this NGO. It would be nice to have the answers. Thank you for your patience, thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in opposition lines.]]
u2022-10-03-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Good evening, good night. Meeting day's closed.
