u2022-12-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2022-12-05-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We're ending this session. It must be said that this session took place in times of crisis: there is an energy crisis, there is a climate crisis, we believe that these two are connected. We believe that until the world is out of the clutches of fossil energy, these crises will continue to repeat, as they did in the 1970s, then in the 1990s, then in 2008-2009 and now again. But before we get to the details of this, we need to talk about developments in EU money. It is more important than to start joking with the fact that on Wednesday Tibor Navracsics considers something a success, something that Viktor Orbán considers to be a tragedy on Friday, and what that means, that you have decided at all what you think about this issue, because, unlike other opposition parties, the LMP believes that this money belongs to us Hungarians. At the same time, we think that it is a faulty policy, the consequence of which is taking this money away from the Hungarians, the point of which is that, standing on a boat, Prime Minister always puts his finger out, he looks very accurately at the direction from which the European winds blow, and then turns the ship towards the opposite wind, and then tells the crew that everything is very bad, so we have to fight better. The result of this policy is what goes against the mainstream of the European Union, after which the European Union's mainstream will not be the most pleasant to us. The fact is that EU money goes hand in hand, for example, by looking at how much German or Dutch multinationals will get out of Hungary in exchange for market opening. But this criticism is credible from us, because we believe that the taxes on German and Dutch multinationals should be increased to 15 or 20 percent, and you keep it on the lowest possible tax wedge. So it's you who don't force these companies to take part in public burdens in some way. In the field of energy, if I say that the Fidesz lineage of the last year has not been even, I have made, in my opinion, a moderate statement. In relation to wind energy, you have expressed all ontologically possible positions: wind energy has been harmful, it has been expensive, it has been good, it has already had to be introduced. There was everything here; they told me everything, and the opposite of everything. When a former government has been so hasty about the privatisation of health, for example, I would be able to say very much from Bence of Rétvári what chaos means. [[Bence Rétvári: Wait!]] What you're doing about energy is at least the same or, in fact, much worse. If we talk about saying what we think about green energy in general, the Prime Minister said in this Chamber that this is the most expensive energy. Then they want to adopt a plan that wants to build on green energy, and then I will listen to the Secretary of State tell me how much they have actually done and how much solar power they have built. If it's expensive and bad, if you don't like it, then why are you going to tell me the panel that Fidesz is good because you're doing it? ! They can't decide such basic things. The fact is that Viktor Orbán was singing self-hagiographies that everything is very good, that Hungary is an exception to the petrol cap and has won that battle; then the current situation in Hungary is that if someone breaks their key into the lock on the Károly Róbert Boulevard in Szombathely, the penalty is still to blame. So something that you claim to be a Hungarian exception every time, which you have always fought against and always won, yet then you can say in the same sentence that it is the cause of all evil. In the field of energy, it is important to say two more things. Paks II. It doesn't look good, I think, to say the same thing, and the international environment isn't the most optimal, I see. Nevertheless, you spend billions of dollars on this, and you are well prepared to have another, possibly American investor, build this. I would like to say here that the Hungarian greens will still oppose Paks II even if it is not built by the Russians. And in the end, a few sentences on the social law signed by the President of the Republic. It is not surprising that the President of the Republic signed it, because it represents the ideology of the President of the Republic, but earlier in the debate on this law, it was said that János Kóka would have licked all ten of his fingers if he had submitted it. That sentence you just said about people having to huddle up at the homeless shelter so they can save money on the bus. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is a kind of insensitiveness that has not been very good in the past period of Hungarian politics. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-12-05-2	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Latorcai.
u2022-12-05-3	[[Without microphone:]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman,
u2022-12-05-4	Wait a minute. Please turn on Csaba Latorcai's machine or put the microphone on, Mr. Secretary, it's okay if that happens.
u2022-12-05-5	I've got both. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-12-05-6	Here you go.
u2022-12-05-7	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I must tell you the truth, the European Commission's decision last week is both a success and a failure. It is an immense success that, after a year and a half of the negotiations, the Hungarian plan for the reconstruction fund has been proposed by the European Commission for adoption, so that the EU funds that have not yet been received can be opened from 2023, and yet it is a success that the European Commission has given the Hungarian plan such an assessment that it has never given a better one to the EU Member State. The next year, therefore, the reconstruction plan will have HUF 2500 billion of EU funds coming to Hungary, and we hope that the partnership agreement will be signed in a few days' time, after which operational programmes will be open, which have not yet been opened, as the Hungarian budget has prefinanced EU funding of more than HUF 1500 billion. [[13.10]] This agreement is also an immense failure, the failure of the dollar left that has seized all the means in recent months to ensure that Hungary does not have access to these funds; Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses cannot receive the EU funds that otherwise belong to the country. Honourable Congressman, We see that LMP is at a time of search and we see LMP's concern about EU funds. Not so long ago, he wrote in a post that we were broken, we were together, we were relatively successful, and we were absolutely unsuccessful, and in fact we were masterfully making our own work difficult. Well, Congressman, they may have made their own business difficult, but the country's business, thank God, could not be made more difficult, because the European Commission eventually did not accept the European Parliament's demand for the European Commission's initiative on the dollar-left, so that Hungary could not receive the funds. In fact, some left-wing Hungarian representatives did not even demand that these resources be lost permanently. But if we look at the LMP's legislative proposals for agreement with the European Union, for which you are now concerned, Member, we can see that I am also out there, I am in there, too. They were in the Chamber, but no buttons were pressed, so, Mr President, there will be no other policy, no other vote, and there will be no other, if they do not take a stand on certain issues, no position that might distinguish you from the dollar left in the future. I ask you: do you support the government's initiative, support the government's efforts to ask the people here at the time of the energy crisis that you have been talking about, and ask them in the context of the national consultation? Make your position clear, then, that they consider the kind of alliance that was concluded with the dollar left and that you wrote last week and that you consider your alliance to be dead in terms of bringing EU funds home. Are you going to distance yourself from what left-wing representatives have done in recent months in the European Parliament, or are they going to continue to join those who want to pressure the European Commission through the European Parliament? Because, as I mentioned, the laws that were necessary to bring the funds home were not supported by the LMP. So, Congressman, whatever you're saying right now, it seems that if they want to, they can't get out of Ferenc Gyurcsány's clamping embrace, because in April we had to remember his consent to get into Parliament and form a faction. Honourable Congressman, The decision is yours: will you stand for Hungary or against Hungary, will you support the government to bring the funds home, or will you continue to belong to Ferenc Gyurcsány's choir? [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-8	László Toroczkai, the leader of the Group of Mi Hazank, also came forward to comment before the agenda. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-12-05-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Slowly, the country is in ruins, there are more and more gas stations where people are unable to get fuel, while MOL was able to make a net revenue of 262 billion during its last period, i.e. the third quarter. This was the greatest, best profit and profit in his history, in particular. Meanwhile, we see that MOL does not want to sell fuel in Hungary, while the government has always carried either MOL or similar large companies on its palms. And, well, that's not the only problem in Hungary. We also see that, however, the overhead prices have skyrocketed, it is increasingly difficult for the Hungarians to pay their bills, the municipalities are bankrupt, and inflation is above 21 percent. This is very important, because you often refer to wage increases and have increased, at least numerically, whether the wages of teachers or the wages of policemen or soldiers, but in addition to the 21 percent inflation, you cannot seriously think that you can live in Hungary from a net salary of HUF 200-300 thousand or even a pension of HUF 100,000, and the situation is getting worse today. The fact that, under these circumstances, the government has decided to withdraw from the social security area and have submitted this amendment of the social law to Parliament, is quite astonishing, almost inexplicable. We also see that public debt is constantly increasing. In 2010, they promised that the situation would be much better and that Hungary would be freed from debt slavery, into which the Balliberal governments before 2010 pushed Hungary. This was a very good promise, but we can see that this has not become much, and even if we look at 2021, we can see that the public debt expenditure has increased by 37% compared to the planned one. In such a situation, Brussels finds that Ukraine should be supported by EUR 18 billion in the coming year, which is already amazing in itself, but by adding Brussels to the fact that it will want to produce this out of debt and credit, which would not only indebt the European Union but also the Member States, so this is where the government should have protested very quickly! Instead, the government announced to us, to our great shock, before deciding on the EUR 18 billion loan in the European Union, that it would voluntarily undertake to support Ukraine with HUF 75 billion of Hungarian taxpayers' money, depending on 70 or exchange rate, by seeing that this war in Ukraine could last for a very long time in the current circumstances. I do not know that the government in this case wants to finance Ukraine's operation with Hungarian taxpayers' money for up to ten years, so that we know very well that what Brussels wants is usually carried over. In particular, we are now seeing Ukraine as a form of hypnosis, a kind of crazy state in Europe. So we will probably also have the 18 billion-dollar loan, in addition to the fact that the government has already offered the 70-75 billion in Hungarian money in such a catastrophic economic situation. [[13.20]] At the same time, Brussels threatens Hungary to freeze the money that belongs to Hungary. Within the framework of a business contract, it is worth up to HUF 3000 billion to Hungary. In the meantime, we do not hear from the government that, for example, it would also want to suspend ever increasing deposits every year. We are now talking about 600 billion forints a year, and the Hungarian government is again paying the Hungarians' money to Brussels. Is this the famous national freedom fight against Brussels? ! The really big question is: do you think that if we do not talk about this EUR 70-75 billion now, just talk about the Hungarians' money and give it to a corrupt state, a mafia state, Ukraine, it will cost the real needy? I doubt that, especially if it's transferred in cash. We also see that support for refugees has already consumed at least HUF 28 billion, according to the Ministry of the Interior's own declaration. It didn't really get to those who really need it. Just a few days ago, we showed that we received a number of requests from the Mi Hazank Movement, which is about continuing to grant support to Ukrainian refugees in Hungary by going back to Kiev during Ukrainian refugees, or perhaps moving to another EU country, such as Germany, where they will receive more support. Does the government check that these subsidies are actually going to the needy? This is my specific question to the government, in addition to the fact that this is not a national freedom fight, in such a disastrous economic situation, it is the sale of Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-12-05-10	The floor is for the Secretary of State of Hungary Levente.
u2022-12-05-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government's position on the war in Ukraine has been clear and consistent since day one. The Hungarians did not want this war, the Hungarians and Hungary suffer and lose this war in every possible sense, as we believe that all warring parties and the whole world are. Hungary, having not followed the neighbor of the war-stricken Ukraine, is primarily interested in creating peace as soon as possible, and Hungary has consistently spoken in various international fora in order to take diplomatic steps towards peace instead of escalation. Whatever the odds of these steps leading to success in the various stations of war, we consistently represent that dialogue cannot be saved, dialogue cannot be blocked, and the European Union and the West would be better off taking action that is urgent and conducive to peace instead of supporting the continuation of war to an infinite extent through their various steps, such as arms transfers. As regards Ukraine's assistance: in addition to Hungary taking the position that it does not deliver weapons to Ukraine in principle and thus does not contribute to the spread of this war, from the first day we provide all the help we can for those fleeing from Ukraine to Hungary, going so far as to help them to work in Hungary, to ensure their basic living conditions, to ensure that their children are able to continue their forcedly interrupted studies until higher education, because we have offered thousands of free scholarships to Ukrainian students and students who had to leave their homeland. The extent to which Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens make use of these opportunities is another issue, however, which Hungary has created, and the framework and funding have given us to maintain all these programmes for as long as they are necessary. Hungary, as a neighbouring country, has felt and has given effect to accepting all those in need, regardless of the travel documents they arrive from Ukraine, so all those affected by war have found refuge in Hungary and we will once again ensure the conditions under which they can stay here until the situation in Ukraine is resolved so much that they can return to their homeland. As far as Ukrainian subsidies are concerned, Hungary has invested heavily in both the Hungarian territory and the Ukrainian territory to help refugees and help people who have even been put into fatal trouble by the war. In both Hungary and Ukraine, the government finances very serious multi-directional humanitarian activities, up to the point of rebuilding schools, kindergartens and public institutions around Kiev. The first kindergarten is ready, and you can start working soon. I very much hope that at the end of this year you will be able to open your doors, and there will be about 60 Ukrainian children there, not far from Kiev, in kindergarten, from whom world politics and history have taken this opportunity. As far as funding for the Ukrainian state is concerned, it is quite clear that the West is committed to maintaining the functioning of the Ukrainian state, both the European Union and the United States, until Ukraine recovers, and its prospects are getting worse every day. As the war lingers, as Ukraine suffers increasing losses both in infrastructure and in terms of its population, I am thinking primarily of military losses, but obviously also of massive blood loss from millions leaving the country, Brussels has come to the view that it will sustain the Ukrainian state. We realise that we cannot miss out on this initiative, but our principle is that Hungary should not do so in the form of a joint collective loan, but should address this issue to Ukraine on a proportionate and bilateral basis from the available instruments. We still do not support failed sanctions. We do not support any action aimed at sustaining the war or aggravating the consequences of the war, or such consequences, but the decision has also been made to support the Ukrainian state in a proportionate manner in the context of the Brussels efforts. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-12	I now give the floor to the representative of the Dialogue, Szabó Timea.
u2022-12-05-13	Ladies and gentlemen, It would be very tempting to talk again for five minutes about how you have failed and deepened this crisis every day in Hungary; how you are destroying education and now there are more than a thousand teachers on strike; how the "lex" will end up with a letter, with the social law practically thousands of sick people being sentenced to death; that there is no petrol at the gas stations; that there is no official price of food on the shelves; that there is no official priced firewood; that you started to create a Ceauşescu-Romania of the eighties from Hungary. Here we are now, while thousands of Hungarians come to Zakopane to buy, because there is only HUF 450 for the margarine and not 900 forints, like you, and Poland is bordering with Ukraine, as is Hungary. But we know these things. You are a lying, dishonest, thieving, propaganda government! But let the Dialogue help you now get out of the crisis a little bit with a proposal, because it doesn't seem to be working for you. This proposal is the introduction of a four-day working week. With the four-day working week, companies have proven that productivity is also increasing, the performance of eviscerated, exhausted workers is increasing, employment is increasing, and, not least, a country is much better off in terms of emissions and the environment. They were skeptical and still many of them, despite the fact that from Japan to Germany, from New Zealand to Great Britain, many people are already dealing with this issue. What does a four-day work week really mean? It means that employees work four days instead of five days a week for the same amount of money, so they pay the same amount of monthly wages. Two weeks ago, Telekom announced that Telekom was not only a Himihumi flower-eating hippie company in Hungary, but Telekom was experimenting and introducing a four-day working week within its own company among its employees. This experiment lasted for four months, and it was so successful that they decided to continue to do so until the end of August 2023. What happened inside Telekom? They gave the workers three consecutive days off, and despite working not five days but four days a week, Telekom's productivity increased by 10 percent. This is very important because today, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, György Matolcsy spoke about how the Hungarian economy is under the bottom of the frog and that once again in the European Union: György Matolcsy said Hungary from the fourth worst point of view of productivity. So maybe it's time to think about maybe increasing productivity this way. 92 percent of Telekom employees said they had more time for their families and more time to rest. We know that a rested worker is more productive, able to work more. [[13.30]] In addition, Telekom did a representative research in Hungary, not on a sample of 12,000 people, but on a sample of 12,000 people, where 84 percent of Hungarian people said that they supported the introduction of a four-day week. Why does the Dialogue support this? First of all, let us not forget that Mihály Varga himself said at the conference of the Hungarian engineering association in October 2016 that 300-350 000 jobs could disappear from Hungary due to digitalisation. You don't have to think about very complicated things anyway, it's enough to go into a fast food restaurant or a supermarket self-service cashier, and we see that there are no cashiers, but machines do the work for people, instead of eight people, that's just what digitalization means, which is why jobs are disappearing. The introduction of a four-day working week will also help, because foreign examples show that it has an employment-enhancing and expanding effect. Of course, this state must help with support and retraining. Another very important aspect is that it reduces stress levels, overworkedness from the point of view of the labour force, so people work less, have more time to rest, have more time for their families. Hungary is leading cancerous deaths, cardiovascular deaths, precisely because Hungarian society is extremely stressful. It would also help to introduce a four-day working week. Last but not least, it is not last from a sustainability point of view. In 2021, a study was carried out in the United Kingdom showing that the gradual introduction of a four-day working week would reduce CO2 emissions by 127 million tonnes by 2027; this would mean a reduction of 20 per cent. Now, when there is an energy crisis, there is no need to describe how important this is. We ask the government to at least in crisis management [[The president's ringing the bell.]] take into account and introduce the four-day working week. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, DK, Dialogue, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-12-05-14	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-12-05-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. How much the government needs the expertise of the Dialogue is the guiding principle in this respect is how they can and cannot solve the Budapest city leadership. If I had to write it down in one word, I'd use the word "chaos." Now you're telling me again that Hungary is the only one facing economic challenges. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Compared to this, in recent weeks, many people have gone on the streets in Berlin, Vienna, Brussels, Paris, Madrid and Italian cities. This fact in itself contradicts the fact that only Hungary should deal with economic difficulties. (Szabó Timea interrupts.) As far as employment is concerned, this government has been supporting employment since its founding, so that everyone who wants to work in Hungary can have a job. We note that the left was pursuing a different policy, which was also evident in the fact that when we took over governance, unemployment was 12 percent, employment was taxed to death, and aid was put first rather than job creation. I'll be happy to take a look at your proposal if you have the opportunity to work it out in detail. Let me ask you not only to refer to multinationals, but to engage in dialogue on what Hungarians want most, because I would also like to add, honourable Member... [[Szabó Timea: Surveys were carried out on a sample of 12,000 people!]] I have listened to you, please give respect to the majority of this House. I would also point out in this situation that in the current economic crisis, in the energy crisis and in the crisis of sanctions, the main issue will be to keep jobs. Do you understand, Congresswoman? That's the main question. [[Szabó Timea: I understand. The problem is, you don't understand.]] And if it were up to you, that wouldn't be the case. You were just referring briefly to the petrol situation. I'd like to respond to that, no matter how much you try to avoid it. That's what we talked about. [[Szabó Timea: I brought it up!]] The oil embargo, which was decided in Brussels in June, is now in effect and has caused great damage before it came into force, not primarily to Russia, but to the European economy. And for the most part, honourable Member, it is coming now, because we are exempt from the transport ban, but if oil prices are rising all over Europe, we cannot exclude ourselves from the price effect. [[Szabó Timea: Why is gas in Slovakia?!]] As much as we'd like to. So now every day...
u2022-12-05-16	[[Without sound:]] Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. [[Continues with a loudspeaker to Szabó Timea:]] Please listen to what the Secretary of State has to say, okay? [[Szabó Timea: Is that clear?!]] Yes, did I make myself clear? Because you don't seem to understand. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] And two, two, four, that's as simple as that. (Szabó Timea interrupts.) You don't have the right to yell at other people. Please listen to what the Secretary of State has to say. [[Mr. Szabó Timea: Don't talk like that.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] And two, two, four, that's as simple as that. (Szabó Timea interrupts.) You don't have the right to yell at other people. Please listen to what the Secretary of State has to say. (Szabó Timea: Mr President should not speak so clearly!) If you'll just hear me out, 'cause you're gonna have consistency, I'll give you a signal. (Szabó Timea interrupts.) He constantly, constantly provocatively disturbs those who answer to you. You did not have a speech that, when the Secretary of State or the Minister replied, you would not have kept yelling at me. This is parliament, not a pub! [[Szabó Timea: Well, we agree on that, Mr President.]] It's not a ruin tavern. Circuit! Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-17	Mr President, I would like to ask for the restoration of time, because I would like to respond to as many things as possible.
u2022-12-05-18	I'll take that into account.
u2022-12-05-19	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the thing, Congresswoman, is that every day... [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] "Every day, we pay the price of the policy that is being imposed on us in Brussels, it's in the accounts, it's on the shelves of the shops and it's in the gas stations, and we can't let it continue. And the reason I am bringing this up specifically, honourable Member, is because you have been supporting these sanctions all along. They would have shut off gas taps, extended them to nuclear energy, and the oil embargo was also delighted. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Where do you live?!]] And the question arises as to why they pursued such a policy. Well, for the tinkering dollars, those. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] They could have gotten $3 billion in their campaign. A left-wing analyst recently spoke with surprising openness that the entire foreign funding system was designed for Christmas Gergely. After that, we are not surprised that Gergely Christmas clearly said that Brussels has the means to put pressure on our country if we do not support these sanctions. Thank you very much, we have felt the pressure ever since, and we have felt the concern ever since. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The $3 billion is a multiple of what the state, the Hungarian state, gives to parties in a transparent way, and on the basis of a public voice recording, money may have come to your campaign from foreign sponsors. If that is not the case, Congresswoman, I would ask you to stand up and declare that you have not received any money from abroad. Will you do that, Congresswoman? A lot of people say this phenomenon is a dollar-left. I've got a problem with that, and I'm gonna have to argue that there's nothing left about it. All you can see here is the dollars. Dear House, I'd like to say that St. Nicholas' day is coming, Santa Claus is coming, and on the left, I'm sure a lot of people have popped out their boots to get another set of dollars. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] I'm sure they'll arrive, and in return, they'll ask you to do something again, mostly to behave, to behave as you'd expect. There's one thing you need to know: this kind of behavior may cost you extra-sea-dollar candy, but it's back home. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] The first high dose was already given in April [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]] And if they don't change, if they don't change, they'll still get it. Government policy remains unchanged [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the Hungarian coat of arms on our jersey [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] and stays there. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea intervenes. Bence Tordai and Zoltán Vajda applaud.]]
u2022-12-05-20	I give the floor to the representative of Jobbik, Z. Carpathian, Daniel.
u2022-12-05-21	Mr President, Dear House, I guarantee that there will not be a clapping storm after what I am about to say, certainly not on the government side, because what happened today in the Committee on Economics, President Matolcsy's economic truth speech comparable to the autumn speech has given this government such an incredibly brutal insight that if this programme had applied to any opposition force, we would have agreed with 80 percent of what he said. The fact is, my fellow Members, that you must now respond to the words of György Matolcsy. It was the slightest indication that it was not worth going back to socialism about your economic policy instruments this morning that the man who was essentially put in the chair of the Hungarian National Bank said. He gave an amazing insight into the Hungarian processes, the President of the Central Bank said that our country is one of the five most financially vulnerable countries in the world. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] This is your performance! Now you could yell, clap, clap, but the thing is, these are facts, numbers; one of the five most vulnerable countries in the world, they sent Hungary here. We must also say that when the President of the Central Bank says once again that the government's crisis management strategy is wrong: your strategy is wrong, the Hungarian citizen may be scared because it would be the cooperation of the government and the central bank that could lead Hungary out of a brutal crisis. To give an example: the Matolcsys, did they not call on you to move at least half of the public investment a little later to deal with the effects of the crisis. But you have said no in your usual stubborn way, and therefore the vortexes of the crisis are much harsher in Hungary than in other neighbouring countries. We also need to see that when the president of the MNB calls the budget 2021 a malpractice [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Do you understand? György Matolcsy calls your budget a budget malpractice, so it would be appropriate to consider, for example, that the budget you have just adopted was designed with a rate of HUF 370 per euro and with some inflation of 5%. Right? [[13.40]] This is your plan for the Hungarian people, based on which they calculate social benefits, based on which the subsidies for families are calculated, based on false plans, not on facts, but on non-existent statistics cooked in some witch's kitchen. And when György Matolcsy says that next year inflation can be 15-18 percent, but if you remain on the wrong path, then the highest inflation figure in all Europe will be measured here in Hungary, you should think again. When the President of the Hungarian Central Bank says that what is happening in food prices and in the food economy is a major contribution to inflation, and he concludes that the second worst productivity in all Europe is the Hungarian food economy, I say that someone should stand up here and at least try to disprove the words of the President of the Central Bank. I am not one of those who would applaud György Matolcsy now, or lay it out before the carpet, because I do not, because I will not forget the conscious destruction of the forint, I will not forget that our inflation data was one of the worst in Europe even before the penalty and the war situation, and I will not forget that you have done everything you can to please the multinationals, and I will not forget the betrayal of foreign exchange crediers. But regardless of this, I say that in the Hungarian political history, you have never heard such an accusation from any opposition representative, whether it be the activist or the professor, from anyone. How is it that György Matolcsy stands out, I accept, he may just run forward, because he actually sees how much trouble is coming, and he tries to spread his responsibility, but how can it really be that one of your people or ex-boyfriends doesn't have the honor to follow that, and I don't even want to know what he's saying about the situation of the Hungarian economy? And you may have noticed that in my speech, I didn't put political adjectives on anything. I was talking about facts, figures, the situation of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian financial policy. I therefore call on you to make an opinion on this, to defend the Hungarian forint, if necessary, also to defend it at a fundamental level, and to stand next to Hungarian small entrepreneurs, Hungarian families and those who carry this national economy on their backs, not because of your failed crisis management, despite that! [[Applause in opposition lines.]]
u2022-12-05-22	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2022-12-05-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond in one sentence to your speech on the President of the MNB. The Hungarian National Bank does not have a government role in economic policy. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Even if he was an economic minister?]] The Magyar Nemzeti Bank is independent, independently carrying out its statutory task, so you can express your opinion completely independently and freely [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: As usual in Hungary!]] either on economic policy or other economic matters affecting the world. Therefore, if you'll allow me, I'd rather talk about the government's economic policy. I would like to talk about what the government has done in the last 12 years in order to ensure that, even in such a difficult situation, economic growth exceeds 4 per cent, that the number of jobs exceeds 4.7 million, and today the economic players in Hungary are not talking about how their business will be terminated, but are planning how they will sustain their business in this difficult economic recession, which is emerging. The Hungarian government has already passed the exam twice and led the country through two crises; first, when the change of government took over the country in crisis, as the public finances were in a state of bankruptcy, in 2009 the Hungarian economy dropped 6,6 percent. As a result of the government's decisions, good economic policy and the rescue of foreign exchange loans, the Hungarian economy was able to move to a steady-state growth path in 2012-13. However, this also meant that this country had to be removed from the world of loans, aid and unemployment, that this economy had to be converted to a performance-oriented economy, that the tax system had to be converted by tax reductions to performance-oriented individual performance, to employee performance, the more I earn, the better I get. This thought had to be reflected in people's minds that it is not good for me to earn a minimum wage, and it is tax-free, but it is good for me to earn more income with a single-key tax, because then there will be more for my family. Honourable Congressman, We have barely passed the crisis, we have put the economy to steady growth, we are among the first countries in the European Union, we have been in terms of economic growth, and then unfortunately, the Russian-Ukrainian conflict has come, which brings the country to another challenge in all respects. An unprecedented energy crisis has emerged, which has been developed by the European Union's bad sanctions policy, resulting in economic factors affecting Europe and Hungary as a whole, which are very difficult to deal with. Nevertheless, our performance is also among the best in the European Union in the third quarter, with a 4.1 percent increase, but in the first nine months the economy was able to grow by 6.1 percent and unemployment was not reduced. We remain the first in the Eurostat list in the EU tax reduction ranking, and Hungary has also made a very good ranking in the OECD tax competitiveness list. In particular, the 9 percent corporate tax is a great achievement. Our country continues to be classified as all three large credit rating agencies, and this is in line with the economic policy measures planned in Hungary. The investment rate is 28 per cent, and the biggest investments are still coming to Hungary, such as Debrecen. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We believe that this economic policy is the right way for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-24	Now, Ferenc Gelencsér, representative of Momentum.
u2022-12-05-25	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, [[Bence Rétvári: Stateman!]] This is the end of the year, I think it's time to account for the year 2022. During the first half of the year, the Prime Minister led the Hungarian voters to believe that everything would be better, better, and greater if he was once again assigned to form a government. But the Prime Minister deceived and deceived the Hungarians, and has been trying to pin the problems that you have caused with bad governance on everyone else ever since. The Prime Minister, who is the head of the Prime Minister's Office, was able to say at the latest Government Info, that the opposition has a responsibility significantly above 50 percent in the current situation in Hungary. After all, you're slowly 13 I repeat, thirteen! I've been in government for the last year. Who else do you think is to blame, Svatopluk, Koppany or Genghis Khan? It's time to tell the truth about 2022. Where do I start the line? Let's see what my fellow members of the Government can be proud of this year, what they can put under the tree. You have raised taxes and made cuts in the middle of an economic and livelihood crisis. During the tax year, you amended the tax law and ended the Kata, putting nearly 400 thousand Hungarians' livelihoods in jeopardy. You have amended the granite-solid Fundamental Law twice this year. You get teachers kicked out of schools after you undermine your rights to strike and other rights. During your nearly 13 years, the wages of our children's educators have been devalued, which is why they're protesting, which is why they're telling us clearly that there's a big problem. The responsibility for this situation lies solely with you, and nothing else. [[13.50]] Meanwhile, Brussels was so successfully stopped that the Hungarians lost HUF 3000 billion. Congratulations on your productive work. They've planted bombs all over the country while the country is at war. With the constant incitement, they have achieved that the relationship between the Ukrainian people and the Hungarian people is in ruins. I'll continue the line. Due to the Hungarian inflation figures, the population is already afraid to enter the shops, because most basic food prices are skyrocketing, and unfortunately the numbers are rising from week to week. We're paying a Fidesz premium for everything because of your bad governance. This weak forint also has a huge role to play, which you managed to push to the bottom in 2022. The markets no longer believe in your performance; inflation in our country is twice as high as the EU average is yet another commendable achievement. A shopping list couldn't be left to you, let alone a country. And it's not nearly over here. At the end of the week, I wanted to go to the country. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among them: Finally! Bravo!]] and there was no fuel at one of the largest service stations in downtown Budapest. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Take the train!]] Every company providing services is shocked to see your new ideas, the consequences of which will, of course, be borne by the Hungarians at the end of the day. Congratulations, fellow Members, you have virtually nullified this country. And then I didn't even mention the bills. Even the Prime Minister pays 300,000 forints of rent. The difference between him and the vast majority of Hungarians is that Prime Minister can pay for this, but the Hungarians can't, because many of them don't even make that much in a month. What can the most disadvantaged expect? What can those who keep running out of savings expect? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You released the reins and threw them into the horses. Well, they don't even know what Tuesday brings on Monday. They're closing the mail, too. At first, they say that it is only temporary, but more and more it seems that there will be no going back on this issue either. It's a perfect example of them not knowing what's gonna happen next week. I beg you, they'll send out the fake consultaries, and then they'll close the mail. Well, that's very logical. And then there are the practices of the GP's, for which a great deal of it can also be a sad fate. We also see that a branch closing wave was launched in the countryside at Takarékbank Zrt., which is only Mészáros Lőrinc's Magyar Bankholding Zrt. serve its purpose. But what about the Hungarian population left without an ATM? Next, tell us what we can expect in 2023. A floor sweep? Huxitra? Forint instead of pengő? [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Forint!]] It's hard to guess. We can assure you that Hungary is the most important for us as responsible opposition politicians. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] and we will continue to support the proposals that are indeed in Hungary's interest next year. We all hope that next year there will be more proposals like this than there was this year. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-12-05-26	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Fürjes.
u2022-12-05-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Once again, we can joke that Peter Ungár has not become smarter today. He said, "I don't understand what's around the Momentum." They're surrounded by a complete mistake. Their support is down, their internal conflicts are down. Here, I think you may be involved, because you continued, Mr President, that you cannot decide whether the president who was elected or the one who resigned. They have no transparent message; I don't know what they want from the world; I don't know what they're saying; I don't know what the Momentum wants. Well, you're not smarter today, Mr. President. [[Peter Ungár intervenes. Ferenc Gelencsér: Answering the question...]] There is no doubt, and it is not surprising that we see this year differently, we hold other events for the decisive events of the year. We also value the causes and effects differently, but this may be natural in the case of a government enemy. In our view, the most important issues of 2022 are war and peace, a Brussels sanctions policy threatening livelihoods and jobs, sanctions and the resulting energy crisis and the left-wing dollar scandal, even if you do not like to talk about it. We're past a countrywalk. It was a great pleasure to have many people on our forums who once claimed to be left-wing. A lot of questions have actually been addressed to you. Allow me to translate three questions that the Hungarians would like to hear from you. [[György Arató intervenes.]] [[György Arató intervenes.]] This year, the first question for many is closer to Christmas, when the left will finally take the side of peace. When will the first pro-peace on the left be heard in Parliament? When will the Hungarian left finally say that Hungary's interest is peace, immediate truce and the immediate start of peace negotiations? (György Arató intervenes.) Or are you still on the side of war? You can answer these questions. The second question that many people would like to hear is: do you agree with the left that Hungary is preventing the European Union's energy sanctions proposals that are harmful to us? The government has not accepted and will not accept the EU energy sanctions proposals that are harmful to us, but it is fighting exceptions, derogations and exemptions for Hungary in Brussels. Would you agree with that, or wouldn't you? Does the left think that the Hungarian government should accept all Brussels sanction proposals, whatever their impact on the Hungarians, with no servitude and no change? And the Hungarians would also like to know how it is with the dollar left, because the third big question is the dollar scandal. The left-wing campaign received billions of HUF support from abroad. Your mayor, Gergely Christmas, is employed by you, and Gergely Christmas is the boss of the town hall consultant who arranged the alleged illegal American support for the left-wing campaign, namely, the cashier, the currency banker or dollar banker, Gergely Christmas sent, gave and instructed. A statement by Agnes Kunhalmi, co-president of the Socialist Party, is an interesting addition to the dollar scandal on the left, even if you are silent about it. After losing the elections, Ágnes Kunhalmi said that, a literal quote follows, and we have been waiting several weeks for the reaction to this:. The whole opposition is misunderstood. He's been trying to live up to a very narrow set of expectations for a very long time, which if someone tries to quit or talks or tries to speak in a different voice, he'll be killed. How should we understand the words of Agnes Kunhalmi? What is a narrow system of expectations? Who's gonna put that in front of you? What does it mean to kill someone different from you? Who kills you and how? Why can they do this, and what do you do about it? And what did your sponsors ask for in exchange for your support? The Hungarians are waiting for answers to these questions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-05-28	Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP is also given the opportunity to comment before the agenda. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-12-05-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hope we can have a few honest words about forint labor now, too. Do you remember the sentence that was said ten years ago that you could live on 47,000 forints? This was said by György Matolcsy, Minister Pintér and an ex-member of the public workers who made so much money at the time. So I was still working as a factory worker, and I'm shocked that my colleagues and I had this conversation that they were serious, normal? To make a living on 47,000 forints? ! Do the Fidesz congressmen go to the store, pay rent, rent, anything else? Ten years have passed, and I think you still don't know how much a kilo of bread costs, although I would add that the average Hungarian people also need to update this data regularly enough because they are shocked and desperate to see the prices that have been released. And if you know how expensive life is in Hungary today, why not increase the wages of public workers and minimum wage workers to a greater extent? I'd like to talk about the latter today, and I'd like to start with the grammar part. The fact that it's a minimum wage doesn't mean that you can't earn any more; it doesn't mean that it's enough or that it's just right. It's not a life's goal. No one's dreaming about earning a minimum wage. The minimum wage should be the least I can do. [[14.00]] Today, according to the most optimistic scenario, there is a 17 percent increase in the minimum wage. If so, a worker can be paid in 2023 with a net value of HUF 155 610. Dear fellow Members, So I'm gonna ask you again, after ten years, do you think you can make a living out of that? Do you know that, by the way, this money is given to the person who works eight hours a day? I hear here, by the way, about making-up rooms made of taxpayers' money, renovated castles, fabulous enrichment. Of course, I don't want you to account for some apostolic poverty, abstinence, because that's what it is or isn't; but humanity and insight, that's what it is. Don't tell me you can make a living. Don't tell me that's enough, because it's not. Not far from us, the leaders of some countries recognized this, and they know it: what is best for us can be HUF 155 610 next year, in the Czech Republic it means a minimum wage of HUF 247 005. The Poles calculate 240 043 HUF and the Slovaks calculate the minimum wage of 232 701 HUF. But due to the tax exemption, the Romanian net will be 158 421 HUF, so it exceeds the Hungarian plans with the largest arc. I would like to ask you three things in order for the fairer world to come to the workers. First of all, make the minimum wage tax-free. Where's the truth in that we're pulling taxes from top managers with a million dollars' salary the same way we're pulling taxes from minimum wagers? ! The terrible injustice of this system was also recognised by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári when his hands trembled and voted in favour of the MSZP's proposal in this respect. Thank you from here too, Mr. Secretary. It was worth it to be able to argue with a social democratic party politician from time to time. Looks like a message came through. As a second step, I ask that the establishment of the minimum wage be part of a genuine trialogue, where the state, employers and employees' representatives decide jointly. I mean, the government should get back to the negotiating table, be pro-peace, bring work peace. And my third request is: do not raise your own wages while the people are suffering. Freeze the salary of the Prime Minister, Members of Parliament, State Secretarys and all political actors as of 3 April. As long as the people suffer, don't raise the salaries. This is true of György Matolcsy. I know this is a very difficult year ahead of us. Some of the trouble was caused by you, and some of it fell on us in the form of an epidemic and a war. But none of it is because of minimum wage earners, nor should they be burdened with disproportionate weight, since even a tax-free minimum wage, 234 thousand, can be very difficult to make a living. And if we've got it all sorted out, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I promise, as president of the Hungarian Socialist Party, that we will be partners in the damages, but the least you can do now is to stop burdening the minimum wage. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-12-05-30	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-12-05-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your concern for minimum wage earners would be at the very least credible, honourable Member, if you had given one: when you were governed, you would have laid the foundations for this credibility; give two: when you were campaigning, you would have spoken up for up to half a Facebook post when the prime minister you supported said that I was very liberal in economic matters, and I do not necessarily consider the minimum wage to be necessary. So you've spoken? [[Uproar, interrogations in the benches of the MSZP, among them: He spoke! Meg, meg! László Varju: Just don't say anything.]] Did he also say a line in which he would object to his own prime minister and ask for this sentence to be withdrawn? [[Moore in the benches of MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] And what have you done about it? Their own Prime Minister candidate's programme was that there was no need for a minimum wage, and in fact, their own government proved this, because it was barely raised under their own governance. It was raised by 23,500 forints, which is almost as if they hadn't really touched it, honourable Member. [[Kálmán Olga: What now?]] Even if the minimum wage doesn't rise, the rest won't pay. Then you didn't... You, in whose election campaign this sentence may say that there is no need for a minimum wage and that the minimum wage would be abolished, and you, who have raised the minimum wage by HUF 23 500 during your two cycles, are attacking those who raised the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 200,000. A year ago, you were all yelling here that the minimum wage was too high to increase to HUF 200,000, that it would bring down the Hungarian economy. Even then, the Hungarian economy was said to be only six months away from collapse, because it is such a burden for employers that they will send people away in bulk and result in mass unemployment. Despite the extremely difficult economic situation throughout the world, especially here in Europe, even more so in the middle of Europe, yet, thank God, there are about four countries in Europe where unemployment is even lower than ours, even though you have had this visit a year ago when the minimum wage was radically raised, that there will be mass unemployment here, honourable Member. So I don't think you, who have managed to raise the minimum wage to a noticeable extent, are credible when you speak like this. However, we said that public employment should indeed be a tangible step in the world of aid and that public employment should be a tangible step forward when a person has a market-based job. We're spending more on helping people in need. And we were here together, for one night, and even for days, we were arguing about this, when we told you several times that our social costs are more than three times higher than in 2010. Social spending lines were raised by HUF 1001 billion compared to 2010 in the adopted budget. So we also help those in need of help in life because they are not able to work, or they are involved in a life situation when the state needs help. All you've been saying for a month is that the state is now eliminating this kind of obligation by means of a law amendment, which is not effective! To a law amendment in which we stated that if no one can help a person, not himself, not his family, not his settlement, not a charitable organization, not the church, not anyone, the Hungarian state will always be there to stand up for the Hungarian people. That's what we've accepted in a bill, and you've been saying the exact opposite here for weeks and months. But it will turn out that life will be exactly the opposite of what you say. So we help everyone who needs help, and compared to that, we brought in public employment, which was also attacked by the left, even though when it was a really difficult situation, he gave 200,000 people a living for 200,000 people! You also told the media in the summer and autumn that next year public employment would cease, while the budget adopted included HUF 110 billion. They came into the Parliament, pressed the "no" button on the budget of HUF 110 billion for public employment, and then held a press conference to end public employment in Hungary next year, because there is no budget coverage; while the government added an additional HUF 7 billion to allow what is being passed from this autumn to next spring to continue without delay, honourable Member. Your credibility in this matter is as much as in the hunger process. Maybe you were there. There was Gábor Simon before you. He was marching in his thick jacket and pockets with a bank statement of HUF 200 million. And you say that the minimum wage must be increased more strongly when no one has raised the minimum wage thinner than you. The statement on the minimum wage has not been said for 30 years, because none of the leading politicians in Hungary has said in 30 years that the minimum wage has to be abolished [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's just a candidate for the US Dollar Left Prime Minister. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-32	I now give the floor to the DK representative, László Varju.
u2022-12-05-33	Thank you very much. Dear House, On a quiet morning before the last day of the House, György Matolcsy appeared at the meeting of the Economic Committee and spoke about the accounts of the Hungarian National Bank. We could have expected calm moments, compared with this, he began by counseling you to surprise the markets from time to time. Well, today we did it! Just because I quote further sentences from him, after my fellow Member on the right: the Hungarian National Bank asks the Hungarian Government to return to its balance policy! After 2021 Hungary was among the five most vulnerable countries in the world in financial terms. In 2023, we will be Europe's worst-case financial country, at best we can expect 14-15 percent inflation, at worst 18 percent. The balance of economic policy between the Hungarian National Bank and the government has been disrupted, an excessive deficit has been created. [[14.10]] The government did not respond to the proposals of the Hungarian National Bank. We made bad decisions; we condemned everything we did when we were in opposition. The state investments should have been stopped. If we had done this, this is not how the inflation situation would have turned out. The main cause of the components of inflation is the increase in food prices, which is because productivity is low, we are exposed to expensive, monopoly firms. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Gentlemen, It has even been said that before the country is in debt, the state is preparing for another bond issue. So, before you make it into debt, you have to take responsibility for what happened. György Matolcsy, Mihály Varga and Viktor Orbán are responsible for Hungary's situation. These decisive steps have led to a 48 percent increase in food prices and a general shortage of fuel in this country. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] György Matolcsy's speech, the actions of the right hand, contributed to what they did, but I can say one thing in peace: the one thing that Viktor Orbán created, he cannot fix. That is why I am taking the initiative to reinstate Parliament's right to control and to submit an amendment to the budget for 2023 before the country falls into the ravine. Today's livelihood crisis is caused by the selfishness, willfulness and mission consciousness of Viktor Orbán for 12 years. He ruined the forints, the economy, our allies, he lied through the election, and all this brought a brutal raise to the Christmas tree instead of bacon sugar. By the way, you could have helped, 27 percent VAT gave you the opportunity to help families out of thousands of billions of forints. So what happened? In the words of György Matolcsy, and knowing that there is no post office, there is no convenience store, there is no doctor in the clinics, there is no doctor [[Sic!]] in the schools, and there's no gas in the wells. They can no longer hide it, because, as György Matolcsy said, the problem must be solved from the inside. [[Noise on the right. The president's ringing the bell.]] You created this situation, and you have to fix it. They can't hide it anymore! After the expropriation of the power of the Hungarian nation in Orbán and the abolition of the rule of law, the tyrannical decisions made it possible for the Hungarian budget and the sixty-bust money of European taxpayers to continue to steal friends without consequences. [[Bence Rétvári: DK TV!]] This resulted in record government debt, record balance of payments deficit, record weak forints and record price increases. But I can tell you more clearly, after the record villainy and stupidity, we're in the game. Therefore, it is time to do it differently, to change, and that is why Klára Dobrev's shadow government says: as a first step, help families, so by spring, reduce the tax on basic food and bills to zero. They have the opportunity, they can do it this year. Then I have no choice but to ask the pro-government representatives: how much do you turn your heads for? Or do they really not see the king naked? [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-05-34	Mr. Balázs Fürjes has the floor again.
u2022-12-05-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If he's wearing a hat, the problem is, if he's not wearing a hat, the problem is, if he's wearing a hat, if he's not wearing a hat, that's the problem. [[A statement from the opposition: Arsapka! Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] So I think the debate you have accused György Matolcsy for years is that he is the Fidesz government's handler, the ally of Fidesz. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: To this day!]] This is obviously a day that I've been disproved. In a sense, it is the day of independence of the National Bank. [[Delightfulness and applause in the ranks of the opposition. László Varju: 12 years!]] So the rule of law, thank you very much, is well, and apparently, the Hungarian National Bank really operates independently of the Hungarian government. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: For the sake of the forint.]] We are in a bit of a difficult situation in this debate; in full understanding and in accordance with the rule of law, Mr President, I mean the President of the Hungarian National Bank, has more freedom than the representatives of the government. [[László Varju: That has made a lot of money!]] In particular, the MNB's independence from the government and not the government's independence from the MNB must be ensured. We humbly acknowledge this asymmetrical situation. At the same time, that's why we take up debates. And let us not forget that the person of the client and the mandate of the Hungarian National Bank, the President of the Hungarian National Bank, are different from that of the government of the country. We have the authority from the Hungarian people, and we have the authority to preserve Hungary's peace and security. [[László Varju: The exchange rate of the forint, right? Kálmán Olga: And the rent!]] Who will overcome the challenges facing this country right now, and you said that it is not our job to solve it, honourable Member. With your permission, the Hungarian voters will decide, they made a decision, a clear decision in April [[László Varju: After lies!]] For the fourth time, they made the same decision in a series. And we, of course, use the authority and strive to comply with the mandate that Hungarian people have given us to truly protect their peace and security, including financial security. That's why we're maintaining the allowance you've been calling stupid over the years, which your shadow government doesn't support, as well as the price stops. [[László Varju: György Matolcsy neither!]] I would like to point out that, according to preliminary data, between 50 and 70 percent of households where average consumption will not exceed gas consumption, and every Hungarian household, every Hungarian family, will receive HUF 181 thousand as a result of the government's decision. We stick to this decision. [[László Varju: Where is that? Transfer it to me. That's what everyone wants!]]
u2022-12-05-36	[[Without sound:]] Congressman! For the second time, please be quiet.
u2022-12-05-37	I realize that the truth can be painful, but I respectfully ask you to listen to me for about two minutes. We increase domestic extraction and strengthen the firewood program; we also use the brown coal program to help the heating of many households. We do maintain the food stop, even if the representatives of the shadow government did not support it and attacked the pricestops. We're maintaining the gas stop, even in a very difficult situation. Find out abroad, see what has been going on in recent months in France, French gas stations, Austria, Germany, Poland, what lines, what tensions, what shortages! We always have to be careful, but we are not likely to experience these situations in Hungary, at least we are doing so with all our strength. Gas is still the cheapest in Hungary. Since the gas stop was introduced, an average Hungarian family has saved half a million forints compared to not having this price control. Many families could go on vacation with children this summer. We provide energy support for small businesses. We also help the tourism sector. And of course, no matter how hard the budget is, we will not withdraw the decisions that we made in the interests of Hungarian families at the beginning of the year. We've got the kids under the age of 25, we've made the payback to the families for the Covid year, we've introduced what you took, the 13th month pension, and we've kept our word, we've given you the promised pension increase and the pension premium. The National Bank is responsible for price stability and our task is to protect the safety and well-being of the Hungarian people. They gave us the assignment, we are accountable to them, and we are facing such a settlement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-38	It is now up to the leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr István Simicskó.
u2022-12-05-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is nearing the end of the autumn session, and it is always worth a brief reflection, a summary or an assessment of the situation. In his letter to the Thessalonians, the apostle Paul states: Reexamine all things and keep the good. I think it's always right and relevant, especially with regard to a flashback. Let us perhaps start from how the international environment has evolved, how it has changed over the past period. We see that there are some growing globalisation processes behind us, accelerating technical, technological development, change; war, with the danger of escalating, with the danger that we are exposed every day to a possible provocation that can really bring about escalation, which we do not want to do at all. [[14.20]] We can see a local war between Donetsk and Luhansk County, Ukraine and Russia, but this can be seen and perceived by its global effects and harmful processes. There is an energy crisis in Europe. We can also see that many things are happening today in Hungary and in many countries of Europe because of faulty sanctions. There is inflatation to an unprecedented extent, and this results in increasing migratory processes, and a very, very unpredictable future is perceived by many. International circumstances are certainly not favourable. What answers do the Member States of the European Union, Brussels, give, and what answers have the Hungarian Government given to these challenges in recent years? The Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has consistently and clearly stood up for peace today. He voted in favour of pressuring the peace talks and makes a statement every day. Humanitarian aid to those in distress and those fleeing the war. It guarantees the protection of the Hungarian families. It supports and protects businesses and families through various programmes. A factory rescue programme has been launched to help large employers and workers. It has set up an action package of 11 measures aimed at reducing inflation and obviously protecting families. At the same time, it has acted strongly and decisively over the past period and is still taking action against the failed sanctions policy in Brussels. If we can look back at the apostle Paul, then, yes, these are the right and good decisions, which must be kept in difficult circumstances. Dear Parliament, It is clear that the sanctions in Brussels have not yet fulfilled their expectations, and I think that everyone can see that. They did not end the war; it is clear that sanctions already threaten the possibility of keeping the fuel price ceiling. The Hungarians clearly see that this sanctions policy is a failure, a clear failure, my fellow Members. In the course of the national consultation, which is a particular Hungaricum, we could call it that, since nowhere else in Europe and in the world, the Hungarian government is not using it for many times now asking people's views and views on important issues, including the Brussels sanctions policy. Over a million people signed it. We also thank the Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families who have filled it out, and we encourage more people to fill out the consultation sheets and send them back. Dear Parliament, We have entered the period of real waiting, since we are living in the Advent period, as János Pilinszky said, this is particularly important today. We have seen that during difficult times, people may turn to God more, for they also look to him for help. CHAPTER XVI Benedek said that the wonderful task of advent is to revive the memories of goodness and open the gates of hope. Ladies and gentlemen, Hope sustains the flames of the candle of faith, love, and joy. I wish everyone, all Hungarian families and all my fellow Members a blessed advent. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-40	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes.
u2022-12-05-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I have agreed with many things, but I am particularly happy to join in with what you have finished, Mr Member: I wish, of course, both the Government and myself, blessed holidays and preparations for all Members, members of all political groups. His comment focused on the issue of sanctions. Let's talk a little bit about sanctions. First of all, the concept of sanctions: it is commonly referred to as sanctions when a person puts a negative consequence on the table in order to influence someone else's behaviour, get them to do something, or just stop them from doing something, make them do something or not do something. It may also be easy to see with regard to sanctions that at least two conditions should be met reasonably so that the imposition of a sanction is meaningful, whether between persons or between institutions. These are the two conditions: suitability and proportionality. Therefore, the sanction should be able to persuade the person to be influenced to act and be proportionate in addition to being able to do so: it should not cause more harm to those who impose the sanction than to those who are targeted at it, otherwise it does not make sense. What we now see in the EU's energy sanctions is that they are neither fit nor proportionate. First, when the war broke out, the leaders in Brussels said that there would be no energy sanctions, and then, when they did come forward this summer, well after the election, they said that the sanctions would stop Putin. Well, we can see how the sanctions have stopped the aggressor: Russia thanks you very much, compared to the situation, its revenues from the supply of raw materials are making a record, but there is an energy crisis in Europe. So we see that the sanctions were not suitable to stop the aggressor. We also see that sanctions do not stand the test of proportionality, as they do more harm to Europe than they do to Russia. Why is that? The explanation is a relatively simple economic phenomenon: it does not work if the weaker position, the vulnerable buyer, wants to repel the dominant seller. Russia is happy to sell oil and gas to the East, mainly to China and India, and we, I mean Europe, cannot or can only buy gas and oil more expensively from elsewhere. It's obvious that it doesn't work economically. That is why we are against energy sanctions, but this was the other issue in Europe alone, which we are asking the citizens of our own country. Sanctions were introduced in Europe without asking the people of Europe. We have decided to ask the citizens of Hungary what they think about this non-important issue for the second time in the framework of the national consultation, which has become part of the Hungarian democratic discourse. We believe that national unity is not only an elevated thing, but also useful. We have seen or experienced many times that being in unity means authorization, strength, unity is easier to accomplish and prevent things. Of course, there is a question of how we can talk about national unity if there is a sharp debate between the left and the right. We think that we can talk about national unity because the real national unity is not the unity of the parties, but the consent of the citizens of Hungary, the will agreement of the citizens of Hungary. Therefore, it would be better if the left did not withdraw from the national agreement for many times, but the fact is that, since the word of the people and the consent of the people matter, the left can stand for money, US dollars or even for pleasure, it is not a matter of what they do in the matter of sanctions, although they can no doubt make it easier, I could help Hungary. Maybe it'll be different. We must keep the door open, because only the stronger can be generous, and reconciliation can bear fruit in politics. I encourage you to review your own policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-42	Now comes the representative of Fidesz, Zsigmond Barna Paul. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2022-12-05-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We often feel that it would be good to forget once and for all, to end what happened on 5 December 2004 within ourselves, and all because it is not good to remember the bad, the hurt, the shameful. Every time we think of this sad symbolized date, we relive the horror over and over again, and ask ourselves what makes someone do to their nation what it did to Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left behind. What they were able to do at the time, if not in its effects, but in its symbolism, was certainly equal to a spiritual Trianon. His shadow stretches far, his contours fade slowly, and those who are directly involved in their existence and faith do not forget at all. They turned Magyar against Hungarian, turned brother against brother, instigated him, and did not shy away from the most primitive social demagogy, they encouraged the sexes instead of the yeses. [[14.30]] The left has not changed since then: they are not interested in strengthening Hungary, the Hungarian nation and our self-esteem, but in being small! They claim their policies, and they would even sacrifice the independence of the country. Dear House, In 2004, the left betrayed the nation, but unfortunately there is nothing surprising about it. This has been the case before, during the years of communism, and so is the case today, when it was once again revealed that the left was financed from abroad and controlled from abroad. We remember that at the end of the summer, the joint candidate for Prime Minister of the Left spoke out, and it turned out that American money was used in the Hungarian election campaign. At first, Péter Márki-Zay talked about hundreds of millions of items, and then as the story kept changing, the amount crawled up. Later, we learned that the amount of dollars rolling to the left from America exceeded HUF 3 billion. There is a common feature in every version that the parties on the left pretend to have no knowledge of anything, but the fact that according to Márki-Zay, the everyday operation of the campaign was supervised by the delegates of the six parties. The dollar left started in the election together, they had joint candidates, they used foreign money for common purposes, so they shared their responsibilities. In recent days, the argument system of the former Prime Minister's candidate for vague, many, many micro-donors collapsed. It turns out that only 11 donors have combined the 3 billion grant to the left, and not many thousands, as previously stated. And since then, it has been revealed that the key figure of the scandal is Gergely Christmas and his chief advisor, Dávid Korányi, a representative of Action for Democracy, and who admitted that they had received institutional, large amounts of support. Dear Parliament, These are serious violations of the sovereignty of the country, illegal and immoral interference, which the entire Hungarian public has the right to know about. This is the worst scandal of the three decades since the change of regime. The published intelligence sub-report made it clear that foreign powers had bought the left. We must ask again: Gergely Christmas, Gordon Bajnai, Péter Márki-Zay, Ferenc Gyurcsány, what did left-wing parties promise in exchange for support, what Hungarian interests were sold? For example, we can see now that, in contrast to the interests of the Hungarian people, the left consistently supports the sanctions in Brussels that cause great damage to the whole of Europe and does everything to ensure that our country does not receive the funds that are due to us from Brussels. Dear House, There are things that we have been able to change, and some things that don't change. We have washed away the shame of December 5th, and national policy was put on a new footing by the national government in 2010. We are on the side of peace and life. Think of how many of our Transcarpathians would be victims of war if we listened to the left and did not fight out dual citizenship. From 2010 there was a common circulation throughout the Carpathian Basin, for which the Hungarians stood together again on 3 April. In recent years, there has been a spiritual unity that we will forever preserve. But there are things that don't change: the tradition of the left is that it will deliver the interests of the country and the nation to one of the great power centers in the process. As previously expected from Moscow and fulfilled without a word, they look at Brussels' instructions today and carry them out if they could. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's not risk getting results, because the nation's future is at stake. As the saying goes, only what we voluntarily give up is lost. We never, ever give up on Hungarian interests! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-44	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2022-12-05-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, December 5, 2004 is one of the heavy burdens of Hungarian politics, and it took many years to overcome this trauma, but we still remember clearly what happened. We remember how the Left published paid advertisements against our foreign national brothers. We remember how they testified that, where we see national cohesion, they saw crude budget lines. We remember how Hungarians were turned against Hungarians, how they said no to those who had been trapped outside our borders for more than a hundred years. The creators and executives of the anti-Hungarian campaign at that time sit here and are active in Hungarian public life. They haven't changed a bit, and they're gonna cut the funding right now. Whether it is protective equipment during the epidemic, or whether the Transcarpathian Hungarians in the shadow of the war, or targeted subsidies, cultural support, continue to pursue a policy of insensitiveness over and over again. I would therefore like to make it clear that while this government is in office, our fellow nations across the border can count on a helping hand. I would like to take a special look at the latest developments in the dollar scandal. What is going on in front of us is the worst influence scandal in recent decades, the attempt to exert foreign pressure and also the gross big on the left, because what Péter Márki-Zay said to a few hundred million foreign sponsorship turned out to be at least $3 billion in funding. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They say over there, on the left, that they got these billions to change culture. If they were given it, let us ask why this left-wing movement's electoral logo was on the electoral posters. Why do Hungarians have to be seen as birds? They said there were micro donations, but, well, they left the counter out, and it turns out there were no more than 11 donors. The average donation of over 200 million forints each may not be a micro donation. Then they also said that only American Hungarians sent such support, when we knew since then that there had been no control over who donated these instruments. And what looks like an attempt to intervene is also happening as an attempt to intervene, it is certainly an attempt to intervene, and it is a qualifying circumstance that they have done so in an extremely sensitive economic situation, in the shadow of war, in the midst of economic difficulties, contrary to the interests of the country. Because, honourable Members, the problem here is not only that they have tried to influence the elections. We've gotten used to this with a little exaggeration, and the results of April 3rd are clear anyway. The biggest problem is that Hungary's policy on war and economic response was to change, and the last thing that mattered was what was in Hungary's interest. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the nerve-flowing dollars have not disappeared or have not all disappeared, because they are still in the left-wing policy: that they would have closed the gas taps; that they wanted to prevent the Paks expansion and to extend the sanctions to nuclear energy; that they are campaigning for a drastic tax increase in Hungary in support of the global minimum tax; that they continue to impose sanctions policy in the shadow of the economic recession; that they campaigned scandalously so that Hungary did not receive the EU funds that were due to it; and when it was necessary to vote here in the House, they did not vote for the necessary amendments. Dear House, For left-wing parties here one by one [[Continued noise, move. The president's ringing the bell.]] They have different logos: whose carnations are, whose tarkabarka font combinations. I would like to suggest to you that you can unify these. They can have a uniform logo, a big, glowing dollar sign, and if anyone doesn't like it, I suggest another one: it could be a marionette pulled from abroad. If they don't do what there's a chance, everyone will know that everyone can see that their policies have been sold, and all this, contrary to the interests of the country. Trust me, you'll get the consequences. I had it on April 3rd, and I'll still have it! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-46	I would very much appreciate it if my fellow Members took their seats and listened silently to the speaker who is at the moment, because it is not much better to respond to the speech in a loud voice than to be constantly yelled at. There is no meaningful difference between the two. Thank you very much. Erika Kissné Köles will now take the floor before the Slovenian minority spokesperson. She is starting her speech in her mother tongue. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2022-12-05-47	[[???Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, cenjeni Zbor! Hvala za besedo, gospod predsednik.???]] Mr President, Congressman and Speaker Ladies and Gentlemen! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for allowing me to discuss Slovenian-Hungarian relations today in the light of the anniversary. Slovenia celebrated its 30th anniversary last year, and this year is the 30th anniversary of many cooperation agreements concluded between our countries. The good neighbourly relationship between Hungary and Slovenia, and its especially valuable friendship, is based on mutual respect, which is exemplary in treating the Slovenian and Slovenian Hungarian communities and in the development of our regions, in addition to the growing political, economic and cultural relations between the two countries, which produce more and more results. At the beginning of my work as Parliament's spokesperson, I stressed that nationalities play the role of the bridge between the two countries; in this case, this is even more pronounced. The mutual appreciation and the recognition, support and development of the Hungarian communities in Slovenia and Slovenia, which belong to the other nation, are also a measure of the appreciation of other peoples and an element of respect for the politics of our countries. Hungary entered into diplomatic relations with the Republic of Slovenia on 16 January 1992. Embassies were opened in Budapest and Ljubljana, then in Szentgotthárd, and later in Lendván Consulates General. On 2 September 1992, it was also 30 years ago in Budapest that the Hungarian national community living in the Republic of Slovenia and the first Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Slovenian National Minority in the Republic of Hungary were signed by ministers of the two countries, which collects concrete elements of the educational, cultural and scientific cooperation programme between the two countries. Its renewed version was signed on 21 February 2022, when the two prime ministers, Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary and Janez Janša, then Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, signed an agreement on a common fund for the development of Muravidék and Rábavidék. Foreign ministers of Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia concluded and signed the bilateral framework agreement on the protection of minorities 30 years ago, on 6 November 1992. The time since then, especially the past decade, has made significant progress for our Slovenian community: our institutions have been established, most of the existing ones have been renewed. The development of our nationality can also produce encouraging results in language care and culture. The work of the National Slovenian Municipality, our local minority self-governments is colorful and increasingly meaningful. The Association of Slovenians of Hungary operates 11 cultural groups, has an independent development agency, a Slovenian Cultural and Information Centre and a sample economy. Our Slovenian broadcast has been on the screens of the Hungarian Television every two weeks for 30 years. We've had our own weekly and Slovenian radio for over 30 years. For five years we have established the European territorial association of MURABA with the National Government of Slovenia, the National Community of the Hungarian Municipalities of Muravidék, the cities of Szentgotthárd and Lendva. We have a growing political, cultural and friendly relationship with the Hungarian community in Muravidék, and the number of cross-border projects is encouraging. It opened 30 years ago on the first border crossing Felsőszölnok, which provides direct access to our family members and friends to the neighbouring areas of Slovenia. The bitter memories of the 40 - year - long strict isolation from the border are slowly fading. Today we are celebrating anniversaries related to our development, and we are waiting for our country and mother country to stand by us in our efforts to preserve our language, culture and Slovenian, in the economic development of our region, in our measures to preserve the population of our region. I wish you all hopeful, intimate waiting. Peace in the hearts, peace in the whole world! Hvala za vašo vljudno posornost. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-12-05-48	On behalf of the government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker Woman, Dear Parliament, Indeed, Hungarian-Slovenian relations, whether we look at the highest political level, and regardless of governments, at least they have worked well over the past 12 years, as well as relations between individuals and communities. This can also be said for the Slovenians in Rabavid and Hungarians in Muravidék. Thank you very much. What does this cover, what does it involve? If we look at the lives of the Slovenians in Rabavid, there has been a huge change in the last 12 years, as in addition to the free self-government, the parliamentary presence has also been established as a spokeswoman, kindergartens and schools have been renovated and built, cultural events have been supported, sites have been built and fixed. From a religious point of view, churches, road crosses could be renewed, and full support for education and education was achieved. The list is obviously incomplete, just as it is not complete in relation to the support of Hungarians in the Muravidék region, as their parliamentary presence in Muravidék, Slovenia, in the person of Ferenc Horváth, is very important, such as the many, many joint developments, construction, which even aimed at the bilingual secondary school in Lendván, and the construction, expansion and early development of a new kindergarten in Chenten and Gyertyános, in Radamos, and the renovation of churches. And what is very important is the years-long economic cooperation between the two governments, which brings together the two territorial units, precisely to serve the survival, to help locally, and to remain Hungarians and Slovenians in their homeland. So we can say that Slovenians and Hungarians are important, loyal and respected citizens of both their mother country and the nations where they live. That's why we've had to do it over the past 12 years, they don't give it for free, it's not self-evident. It wasn't always like that. You, too, Madam Speaker, have mentioned how 40 years of isolation caused communism to break up relatives and friendly threads. Unfortunately, not only did communism tear a nation apart with a nation, a family, but we were also a decision a hundred years ago, and that Trianon decision certainly brought about a situation where the Hungarians who live outside the border have been in a very difficult situation in the last nearly a century, and we have had to heal these wounds over the past decade. The big problem and the big problem is that everyone didn't take this seriously, because we thought that even the recognition of Hungarians living outside the border should be at least as high as the recognition of nationalities within the borders. Today, on 5 December, we also remember the shameful decision of the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány on 5 December 2004, and I have to say that, unfortunately, they have not apologized to Hungarians in the highlands, Hungarians in Transcarpathia, Hungarians in Transylvania and Partium, Hungarians in the south, Mura-rural or guardland since then, however, they continue to act against them. We must remember this day, as they do in Szeklerland. For example, a Szekler peasant nursed one of his cows, caring for him, but in order to remember this shameful day, he called him Gyurcsány. [[Gergely Harvester laughs. Noise, comments from DK.]] There is such a way to commemorate. But there is also a memorial... I have heard that the truth hurts, the fact that they did, because three of them are here in Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Lajos Oláh and Timea Szabó, who did not support dual citizenship. Here are those who have always voted against and acted every step of the way, either against the Transcarpathian Hungarians or against any Hungarian beyond the border. If we summarize all this and look at who's politics, we, as I said, are particularly interested in Hungarians across the border. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] but also the Hungarian nationalities, including the Slovenians. God bless you. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[14.50]]
u2022-12-05-50	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-12-05-51	Dear Parliament, János Bencze, Jobbik; Gyula Földesi, Fidesz; Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz; Győző Vinnai, Fidesz; Gergely Arató, DK; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Péter Jakab, independent; Dávid Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP. Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; András Jámbor, Imre, Dialogue; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Szabolcs Szabó, Momentum; Zoltán Vajda, MSZP; Gy. Erzsébet Németh, DK; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik. Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, Mi Hazank; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz; Mária Kállai, Fidesz; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Péter Balassa, Jobbik.
u2022-12-05-52	Dear Parliament, I'm announcing Gy. Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, informed me that on 8 November 2022 the Budapest Group of Representatives was established. According to the provisions of the decision-making rules, the formation of the group does not affect their membership of the faction. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that István Apáti, a Member of the Hungarian Parliament, received a motion to suspend his immunity on 28 November 2022, 418. Bpk. 61.910/2022/12-I. on a private charge of defamation by the Central District Court of Pesti. To examine this, I gave it to the immunity committee in presidential power. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted a proposal for a decision on this matter, so that the agenda proposes that immunity be suspended on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Katalin Novák, President of the Republic, sent the Parliament a transcript of the termination of the term of State Secretary, the appointment of a new State Secretary and the appointment of a new Minister. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szűcs and Lajos Szűcs to make them known.
u2022-12-05-53	László Fat for the president of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 203. Paragraph 1 (b) and Article 204 On the basis of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that Dávid Vitézy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, had resigned with effect from 21 November 2022. Budapest, 22 November 2022 Yours sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2022-12-05-54	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, pursuant to Article 9 (four) (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, I have appointed Csaba Lajos Lantos as Minister of Energy with effect from 1 December 2022. I would also like to inform the National Assembly that, on the basis of the basic legislative provision referred to above, taking into account the list of the ministries of Hungary of 2022, Annex II. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, which will enter into force on 1 December 2022, I have stated that Mr János Lázár, on the appointment of ministers, is subject to resolution 186/2022. [[V. 24.]] With effect from 1 December 2022, the term of office of Minister for Construction and Investment under the Presidential Decision of the Republic of Hungary shall be changed to the term of office of Minister for Construction and Transport. Finally, I will inform the Parliament of my decision concerning the State Secretarys. With effect from 1 December 2022, Péter Ágh was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, Dr. Sándor Czomba as State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, Zoltán Hankó Balázs as well as Gergely Fábián as State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with effect from 7 December 2022. I have concluded that Dr. László György, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and Innovation, will be terminated with effect from 30 November 2022. Dr. Zsolt Krisztián Kutnyánszky, State Secretary of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 30 November 2022. Budapest, 29 November 2022 Yours sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2022-12-05-55	Dear House, Now it is the minister's solemn oath and the signature of the oath papers. I would like to inform you that Minister-designate Lajos Csaba Lantos has been heard and promoted by the Economic Committee and the Committee on Sustainable Development. I ask Minister Csaba Lantos to come to the middle of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to listen to it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Lajos Csaba Lantos steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2022-12-05-56	I, Csaba Lantos, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-57	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr. Victor Vinnai to prepare the oath papers for signature and Minister to sign them. [[It's happening. The Dr. Winner Vinnai, who signed the oath document, congratulates Csaba Lajos Lantos and gives a copy of the signed oath document. For Csaba Lantos Lajos, first Viktor Orbán, then Máté Kocsis, dr. István Simicskó, dr. Balázs Fürjes, Péter Ungár, dr. Judit Varga, dr. Brenner, Zita Gurmai, Imre Ritter, Bence Tordai, László Toroczkai, dr. Sándor Pintér, Antal Rogán, János Csák, János Lázár, István Nagy, István Szalay-Bobrovniczky, Kristóf Magyar Levente, András Tállai, dr. István Nagy and Csaba Latorcai.]] Dear House, Allow me to congratulate Minister Lajos Csaba Lantos on behalf of Parliament and myself, and wish him every success and good health in carrying out his work. [[15.00]] The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the National Assembly's H/2227 on the Day of Hungarian Culture. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on Wednesday. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/2227/4. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that, in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has contributed by 159 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions, to a derogation from the house rules. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 6:1 p.m. today. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on 7 December 2022 as item 1 of the agenda, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote on 7 December 2022. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on an exceptional proposal. The author initiated the Parliament to discuss in exceptional proceedings the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion in respect of the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a common framework for media services in the internal market, amending the law on the freedom of the European media and amending Directive 2010/13/EU. 1st report and H/2169 on its adoption A proposal for a decision. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting a proposal amending the proposal for a decision within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate taking place on 6 December 2022, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on 7 December 2022. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. In order to provide for an exceptional procedure, more than half of the Members, i.e. 100 Members, must vote in favour. Dear House, So now it's time for decision-making. I ask you to accept B/2168 and H/2169. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal to proceed with the exceptional procedure by 120 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 11 abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 6 p.m. to 3 p.m. today. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the agenda of the Parliament meeting on 5-6-7 December 2022 be added to the agenda of the H/2227 on the Day of Hungarian Culture. by negotiating and adopting a proposal for a decision. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted a proposal to supplement the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that the Parliament's proposal for a meeting on 5-6-7 December 2022 be added to the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the establishment of a common framework for media services in the internal market, amending the law on the freedom of European media and amending Directive 2010/13/EU. Report No 7 and H/2169 on the adoption of the report By discussing and adopting the joint debate on Tuesday 6 December 2022, the decision on the draft amending proposal and the final vote shall take place on Wednesday 7 December 2022 as item 1 of the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that our agenda be added to the P/2254 rejecting political pressure against Hungary's interests. With the negotiation and adoption of Policy Declaration No 2 as a second item on Wednesday, 7 December 2022, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Wednesday, 7 December 2022. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands as well. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposes that the item on the agenda of the Parliament meeting on 5-6-7 December 2022 be amended to allow the beginning of the Wednesday, 7 December 2022, to take place at 8 a.m. instead of 16.15. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/2014 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the organisation and functioning of the State Audit Office and the rights of nationalities. T/1618 amending certain laws necessary for active consumer protection T/2032 amending, at the request of the European Commission, certain laws necessary for the effective conclusion of the conditioning procedure T/1790 on the publication of the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, of 21 March 1983, in Strasbourg, on 18 December 1997 T/1837 and T/1837 concerning the amendment of certain laws on criminal matters and related matters T/2031 on Tuesday, 6 December 2022, to discuss the Commission's reports and summary amendments to the legislative proposals on the amendment of certain health legislation. Following the discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. I declare that the DK Group has proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which is proposed in the House Rule 15 of the Decision. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision. The Parliament decides on this without debate, with a raise of hands. I would also like to announce that Group Leader Ferenc Gyurcsány has initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In view of this, the raise-up vote will be held by using a machine counting the vote. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/606-1/2022. President's decision. So I'm asking you to vote using the machine. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has maintained the presidential decision by 118 votes in favour, 41 sexes [footnoteRef:1] against and without abstention. [ 1: Ander Balázs, Dr. Brenner Koloman, Zoltán Sas, Dániel Z. Carpathian [[Better.]] wanted to vote against] I declare that the MSZP Group has also proposed to supplement the agenda proposal, which was proposed in the House Rule 15. I refused pursuant to paragraph 4a of Section 4a, given that it is not subject to Article 15. It has been submitted in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4. The proposer of the rejected proposal initiated the repeal of the President's decision and the use of a ballot counting machine. In view of this, instead of raising your hands, we vote by using the ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the scope of the OE-42/605-1/202. President's decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has maintained the Speaker's decision by 115 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions, so we will not vote on the proposal to supplement the agenda either in this case or in one case before. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. [[15.10]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, as we have just decided, P/2254. A proposal for a amendment to the political statement No 6 can be submitted within three hours of the adoption of the agenda, so that it is possible to do so for 18 hours to 10 minutes. In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the Committee on National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary to ask the B/2197 submitted on the activity and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2021. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:11 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations after a half-minute technical break. (Sunning: 15.11 15.14) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-12-05-58	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Why is the government not willing to take any real steps to stop the amazing increase in food prices? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Hang on, you know, your basic public tasks would include, among other things, being informed in the world and, indeed, being aware of everyday reality here in Hungary. You should not only read in the morning what Antal Rogán invents and e-mails you that day, you could not only go to the luxury restaurants, but sometimes you have to go down to a convenience store among people, you know, look at the prices, maybe at the checkout for the receipt, and then into people's eyes. But you do not, because you, we know very well, have lost touch with reality. I therefore suggest that you not only look at the desperate eyes of the customers, but then, if you believe the lie of the government that you are saying, that only nine products have been stopped by the official pricing of the food, then you are either cynical to the extreme, and you are constantly telling the lie of the Orbán government, or simply unsuitable for your task. If you really wanted to govern, not just by holding on to your velvet chair, waiting for prefabricated lies from Antal Rogán's sorcerer's kitchen, and not just the sanctions voted by Orbán on a continuous basis, then I would venture to say that you have several opportunities to reduce the VAT on food or food prices, because not only the shadow government knows the solution, you know that, and you must not allow your government to profit from inflation in Orbán. And you are aware that the Orbán government is earning hundreds of billions of HUF extra income on the VAT of ever-expanding products. While, of course, lying about stopping the price increase, they continue to make profits on the VAT paid for bread, eggs, meat, and all other foods. And this face, we know very well, is being paid by the Hungarian people, by those you could meet in the nearby convenience stores, but you don't meet because you don't dare come between them. According to the shadow government, action must be taken immediately. The VAT on basic foods should be reduced to zero per cent, the VAT rate should be applied until 31 March and from 1 April to the same product scope a VAT rate of 5 per cent should be reduced to 5 per cent, because the increase in prices directly increases the costs of producers and traders, which will lead to further price explosions. According to the shadow government, it is also necessary to withdraw the extension of the public health product fee. It is not on the taxes of cereal or pasta that we must profit from, but at last ensure that people are provided with affordable food. Tell me, Secretary of State, why is the government not willing to take any real steps to stop the amazing price of food? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why do they profit from inflation in Orbán, the increase in tax revenues in the middle of a livelihood crisis? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You know that inflation is now affecting the whole world, not just Europe, not only Hungary, but the whole world, as inflation is approaching 10 percent in the United States, even though there is no war, no energy crisis, and they are also the winners of this situation; or there is record inflation in Germany, with inflation above 10 percent. That is why not only the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people, but the whole world are struggling with this, unfortunately this is what characterizes today's world. It is, of course, a popular proposal on the opposition side to reduce VAT. Saying a tax reduction in Parliament, such a proposal is always popular, surely many people like it. However, if we look at how you feel about reducing VAT, this will get a little different light. Let's see. [[15.20]] Firstly, when Fidesz has proposed to reduce the VAT on basic foods over the past 12 years to reduce the VAT on eggs and pigmeat, you have not voted for it, for example, at any time, or from the opposition. But at a time when they were on the government, they did not trust that the VAT reduction would be a real price reduction for the population, it would be beneficial, it would be less issued, so they created a VAT control unit, which otherwise went bankrupt, and eventually they had to raise the reduced VAT later. This was in your administration. For we are politicians, let us compare what you have done in crisis, what we do in a difficult situation. But I could say from today's world the Polish example. In Poland, the VAT on certain foods has been temporarily reduced to zero, and the Polish statistical office says that no more products have been consumed from vegetables or fruits. Moreover, the other side of this popular VAT reduction proposal is what this actually means for the budget. After all, in opposition, you are not responsible for the balance of the budget, the efficiency of the budget, the maintenance of the deficit, so you can certainly make any proposals. Your proposal is that a parliamentary resolution proposal has also been prepared for the budget to lose some HUF 600 billion. This has to come from somewhere. This proposal is close to a percentage of GDP. Obviously, on the other side, it is also necessary to take action as to who this expenditure does not reach. Of course, your proposal is no longer about that. It does not say, for example, that, where appropriate, the reduction in the average consumption would be abolished and would create the source of this VAT reduction, and then we would be around the same budget as we are now. But it doesn't say that if this reduced VAT ceases on March 31, then you will raise your VAT back to 5%, in Hungarian it means a tax increase and a price increase, an inflation increase; but you did the same during your governance. Honourable Congressman, We believe that the government, with its current decisions, uses price caps to protect the population properly.
u2022-12-05-62	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-63	I don't accept it. I can't accept it. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Now look at yourself for a second. Your answer was pathetic. You're hopelessly lying, but you don't believe what you're saying. Note today's date: December 5th. György Matolcsy, is that a familiar name? György Matolcsy said that Hungary, the world of Orbán, is the fourth to fifth most vulnerable country in the world. György Matolcsy said that inflation is neither sanctioned nor war. But you prefer to continue to profit from taxes on food and continue to lie to people that there really is no such thing as 70 years of food in Hungary, but it is also completely unique in Europe. You and you personally refuse to face reality. It is now clear that it is only and only the shadow government that can lead this country out of the crazy crisis caused by your past 12 years of free robbery and destruction. Once again, I will not accept your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-64	Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Reliable Dezső and Sándor Szabó, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Execute the solar systems of families with millions of HUF investment? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Lajos Csaba Lantos, Minister of Energy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since the elections, the government has actually discouraged those who wanted to increase or strengthen the energy supply of their homes by means of a green and renewable solution. Yeah, solar power plants the size of a household, their everyday name, they're about solar panels. Prior to the elections, households were promised non-refundable support in all areas of the country, with which, of course, there is nothing wrong in itself, this is a goal to support, but before the election, everyone was informed that they won the tender, but otherwise they were not given a single penny. It's been eight months since then. After eight months, we can say that 17 thousand winners have been waiting for the support to arrive in their account, and they are obviously panicked that, obviously, the costs will increase by 45% on the rise in inflation and the rise in building material prices, which they will not be able to produce. This difference will be a significant burden on households' budgets. You might say that it was better for those who did not receive state aid, but, of course, they did not. First, they broke their most important election promise by eliminating the previously known regime for the reduction of debts. After the release of the overhead, tens of thousands of stunned families were looking for a solution to reduce spending: tens of thousands of people decided to invest in solar energy using the salvo settlement. What did the government do? Did it help with the green transition? Did you pay the contestants? No. Instead, with effect from 31 October, it closed the possibility for families to feed unused green energy into the electricity grid. Again, this has put tens of thousands of families in an almost impossible situation, since millions of investments had to be decided quickly before the deadline, or who knows how long the possibility of joining will be lost. It's funny to say what your government has done. Then there is the sluss joke, which is also not funny, because there is a government measure, a Prime Minister's decree, which, according to industry operators, will generally end the annual salvo system as of January 1, 2024 and prescribes monthly settlements for customers instead. If that is the case, then summer surplus production cannot be accounted for in winter, then all family solar investments will immediately become loss-making, as the time of return on investment may increase beyond life, up to 20-25 years. Dear Secretary of State, I think we've had enough of this new government gangbang, and we need to clear the air. Answer the question: will the annual salvo settlement system for family solar systems end on 1 January 2024? Do most clients really have to switch to monthly accounts? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-12-05-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to renewable energy production, which is why we have done a great deal in the last 12 years. A very good example of this is that in five years we have practically tenfold solar power, now we have 3.8 gigawatts in operation, and up to 2026 we have an additional 5000 megawatts. It is the government's responsibility to maintain the stability of the electricity grid and security of supply. The energy crisis caused by sanctions has led to a sharp increase in demand for solar energy. This requires speeding up network development. Therefore, we have already started this process, and the government is spending HUF 103 billion on the development of the electricity grid, which means a 50 percent aid intensity for companies. As long as the development is ongoing, in order to reduce the load on the network, the possibility of entry for newly connected residential solar systems will be temporarily suspended. In relation to the solar applications, we have already said several times that a record number of applications have been submitted. They are considered to be ongoing. Since most of the applications needed to be replaced, the processing of them is ongoing. The Ministry of Energy stood up four days ago on 1 December, and Minister would like to take a full look at the retail solar system, including the MEKH Regulation cited. However, allow me to draw attention to the fact that you say that in the case of solar applications, even those who did not receive such State aid were better off. [[15.30]] I think that this is a very sad approach, because funding for this programme with a budget of HUF 200 billion can help tens of thousands of families below the average income to further reduce the costs. The installation of solar systems will be supported by HUF 2.9 million per apartment, HUF 11,3 million for the construction of a complex energy-saving heating system. With the aid, the State will take over a significant proportion of the investment costs, thus providing the parties concerned with the most favourable conditions for the installation of a solar system. I think that to say that the person who has not received such support has been better off, but assumes some malice. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Parliament and the Council have a Directive 2019/944, which states: "Member States which apply existing systems which do not separately account for the electricity supplied to the network and removed from the network cannot grant new rights under these systems after 31 December 2023. Users subject to existing systems should in any case be able to choose at any time a new system which separates the electricity supplied to the network and consumed from the network as the basis for calculating network charges. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I would like to ask Mr President, that our efforts so far should be assessed, because since 2013, it is very important for us to reduce the costs and support families, this HUF 181 000, which we can ensure during today's energy crisis, is a very big thing. What must be remembered is that under your government, energy prices have been raised 15 times. That is why we are asking for a positive assessment of all our measures that have a positive impact on the population. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-68	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-69	Mr President, I cannot accept the reply of the Secretary of State, because she has not given a clear answer to a clear question. The question was whether the annual settlement system would remain, or whether it would be a monthly system, she did not say that. Besides, you know, Madam Secretary, if you can't help me now, at least don't hurt me. Many people have chosen to increase energy security in terms of renewable energy because you do not give electricity, for example, at 12 forints, where the Paks nuclear power plant produces it. A lot of people have chosen solar investments in terms of energy security because you have missed the insulation system in terms of energy efficiency last year, which György Matolcsy was talking about today. We should slowly decide who you actually represent outside of yourselves. Thank you.
u2022-12-05-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Éva Sebők, representative of the Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: "How long?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-12-05-71	Thank you very much, Honourable House. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In the countryside, the degradation of service infrastructure began at a significant speed. What do I mean by that? Mass postal closures, mass ATM terminations, mass bank closures, parallel criminal firewood shortage, parallel brutal goods shortage on the shelves of shops. Practically sugar, for example, is no longer available or barely available in most settlements. If these services and these products are not available in the Hungarian settlements, as they are no longer available in the Hungarian settlements, this will lead to a total bleeding out of the countryside, as they are not only services, but services without which rural life cannot be maintained. I'm asking you how much longer, when you're gonna do something about this country going down. And why haven't they done anything to keep this situation from happening? Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the last 12 years, the Hungarian government has made it clear from its actions that without the countryside there is no Hungary, and without strong agriculture there is no future. There has not been a government that has spent so much to improve the situation in the villages, according to the needs of the people in the countryside. Based on what? In recent years, in the rural development programme, we have supported some 3,000 municipal projects worth more than HUF 200 billion, which have developed infrastructure and services for small settlements. Since its departure three years ago, I am convinced that one of the most successful rural development programmes is a settlement of less than 5 thousand people. [[Sic!]] He was able to be a winner, and investments to improve the quality of life of small settlements and residents were worth about HUF 300 billion. I believe that Congresswoman also met in Békés County with renovated outskirts, clinics, renovated schools, kindergartens, cultural houses, ecclesiastical institutions, renovation of cemeteries and funeral homes, and perhaps even a list of local markets. This government introduced the village CSOK, which was requested by tens of thousands of rural Hungarian families. These programmes have halted the decline in more than half of small settlements, and even increased population numbers among most of them. In many cases, the success of the Hungarian countryside depends on the success of the Hungarian agriculture. The agricultural and rural policy before 2010 forced the entire Hungarian countryside into an unworthy role, and it had to come back from here. For the record, you're talking about sugar, the sugar industry has been destroyed by your predecessors, sugar beet processing has been liquidated all over the country. An important guarantee of the development of the economy and settlements is that Hungary's Common Agricultural Policy Strategic Plan has been adopted in Brussels. This decision provides a historical opportunity for the Hungarian agriculture and food production, which gives the backbone of the countryside, and for all related economic sectors, as well as a secure basis for further rural development. Over the next five years, more than HUF 5300 billion is available in the domestic agricultural and rural development support system. The government strives to make the Hungarian economy and the budget of the settlements crisis-resistant even in war conditions. Next year, local governments will receive HUF 95 billion more funding and the total municipal funding will be HUF 969 billion. The total management framework of the municipal system is HUF 4000 billion, from which the 3200 municipalities can operate. The misguided sanctions in Brussels have led to the release of energy prices, and the energy crisis is affecting Europe as a whole. For this reason, individual states and certain companies are introducing coercive savings measures. Hungary is no exception. Here we may have to mention Magyar Posta Zrt. Magyar Posta will not terminate anyone's work because of the interruption, the employees will not lose their opportunities, they will be transferred to other post offices. But for the record, the delivery is not affected by the measure. To sum up, the last four years have been extremely challenging even before the war, thinking about the effects of the coronal virus, the price of rising energy and input materials, the shortage of labour or the historical drought. Despite the challenges, the backbone of the rural economy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] agriculture and food, as well as rural infrastructure and urban image will have a spectacular development. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-74	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply.
u2022-12-05-75	Thank you very much. I can't accept the answer. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is currently a problem with ploughing in the county of Peace, because there is no gas oil available. [[Sándor Farkas: Come on!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have not responded to the closure of the police stations, nor have you responded to the lack of goods. Almost all the municipalities concerned are currently collecting signatures against postal closures. [[15.40]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today your man, Matolcsy, has confirmed that the Fidesz premium, which is due to Fidesz's poor economic policy, is the primary reason for the release of prices. It is your responsibility to do something at last, because the situation that is now in place and seems to continue cannot remain, otherwise the countryside will be destroyed. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-76	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development: Why is profit more important than the security of the country's fuel supply? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-77	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We recently received the news, not from a tabloid press, but from rumors that MOL exports at least 160,000 liters of diesel to Ukraine. And where did that come from? This is Gubik László, the Záhony-Port Logistics and Cargo Management Service Ltd. The CEO of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County General Assembly said it at its meeting on 14 October. And that's a minimum amount of what I said. He also reported that Záhony-Port had changed the capacity of its chemical transferors in order to send fuel back from MOL's 100halombatta refinery to Ukraine, and to this end he talked about an forced investment worth nearly 100 million HUF. It's more than interesting that we haven't seen any government reports about it, let's say they've been very quiet about it. The first question is why. On a priority issue such as fuel, which is not an exaggeration that Hungary is a vital issue, at least Parliament and the public should have reported it, especially in view of the fact that a number of billions have been spent on consulting EU sanctions. All this in the current situation, when the country's access to fuel is very limited to the population, entrepreneurs and farmers, and has already resulted in the closure of hundreds of gas stations, and let us admit that it will result in even more. We therefore rightly consider this outrageous and unacceptable. I think that I will then rightly ask the most important questions, which are very simple and I would ask for simple answers. Where exactly and to whom do you sell MOL fuel abroad, and for what reason when there is a shortage of fuel at home? At what price does MOL sell fuel to Ukraine, and what revenue does MOL expect? In this situation, why is it not the first time to provide domestic fuel? Dear Secretary of State, Before avoiding responsibility for the government's limited influence on MOL's transactions, I would remind everyone that the Hungarian State owns shares in MOL in various ways which confer voting rights. So, technically, the government had to know about this case. If he didn't know by some miracle, it's a huge problem if he found out about it, and that's even worse. It is unacceptable that, while the country suffers from a lack of fuel, MOL sells fuel abroad, and the Hungarian government is silent about everything. How long does MOL intend to export fuel abroad, and when will its existing capacity be fully spent on domestic supplies? And before they say it's not true: I couldn't refuel today either; several people from my region, Tolna County, but from all over the country that there is neither an official price-cap fuel nor another market-price fuel; simply people, farmers, carriers in Hungary can't refuel until there is such a problem in all the neighbouring countries, even in Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-12-05-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-12-05-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian State transferred the A-series A-series shares issued by MOL to MOL's New Europe Foundation on the basis of its founding assets. The Hungarian State, as you said, has a share of B-series with a nominal value of 1000 HUF, which gives the statutory rights of priority. By way of derogation from the position expressed on your question by the B-series, the share giving priority rights does not confer, under the statutes, rights on the owner of the shares which would influence the company's decisions in a separate business. The business decisions in question and referred to by you were taken by MOL in its independent business activity, which the Hungarian State has no influence on. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-80	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-12-05-81	Well, we have a problem here. Because they can put a price cap on anything. Exports of agricultural products have been prohibited and can be exported with a special licence. They forbid exports of firewood, so they knew about it, but the fuel exports that run the country that people travel with, farmers plow, transport carriers, for some interesting reason they couldn't forbid it, they simply ignored it. I feel that this was done in a depraved business interest, at the expense of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian population. This decision strikes everyone equally, whatever party sympathy you have, you can't fill up the fidesz, the betterman, the DK, the MSZP, nobody! This is a huge problem! I cannot accept the answer, and I would ask you to do everything you can to secure the country's fuel supply. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-12-05-82	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. The introduction of the four-day working week. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Dialogue has been calling for a four-day working week for six years, and certainly you have not missed the developments that have been made in this regard in recent weeks. We have very good reasons to support a four-day working week, both social, environmental and economic. Perhaps we should start with the latter, all the more so, because György Matolcsy's explosive expo this morning as a bomb made it quite clear that Hungary is in economic crisis, productivity is the fourth worst in the European Union, and the President of the Central Bank said that this is not going to allow us to enter the top five countries, but that catching up is also completely impossible. The productivity of the Hungarian economy should be increased, and this could be an excellent incentive for the four-day working week, since as a result of the ever-experimental international experiments, it has been described as a lesson, it greatly increases the productivity per working hour, and overall, all productivity gains compensate for the decline in working time. Let us be clear that when we talk about a four-day working week, we are talking about a reduction in working time where wages remain unchanged. So workers are increasing by the hour, and from then on I do not think that there is much to explain the positive social impact: they have to work less for the same money, they can spend more time with their loved ones, they can spend more time on themselves, on their health, on recreation, and they can put on their agenda a lot of useful, although time-consuming, positive, and new lifestyle elements. Therefore, the positive social impact is not questionable and the positive environmental impact is not negligible. In such an energy crisis as we are now, the fact that even a fifth of the energy used can be saved, I believe that it should come under decisive weight, which is what the studies carried out in the United Kingdom on the impact of the four-day working week have shown. We can see there's no gas, no diesel in the wells. If there were to be less than five, then obviously demand would be reduced by that, perhaps they could satisfy me to give just one very obvious example. But as a dialogueist, as a green party, we also say that because of the climate crisis, the climate disaster, it is also a matter of life to unscrew our emissions, reduce our energy consumption, and we would also have an important ally to introduce a four-day work week. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether the Government is considering introducing this or launching attempts with this. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[15.50]]
u2022-12-05-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, All jobs in Hungary count, and therefore all possible help must be given to those who can, can and want to give jobs and work despite the crisis. I don't dispute the benefit of a four-day working week, and you're absolutely right about that. At the same time, I believe that the government's employment policy has been successful over the past 12 years, and today we have one million more jobs than we did 12 years ago. Even in the face of the economic situation affected by sanctions, employment is record and unemployment is one of the lowest in the European Union. This amounted to 3.6 percent in October 22, while the number of unemployed was 176 thousand. This means that in one year the number of unemployed has decreased by 12,000, and the number of unemployed people has decreased by 300,000 compared to the change in government in 2010. At the same time, the government is constantly examining the economic and labour market situation and, if necessary, interfering. This is why we announced the 150 billion factory rescue programme, the 200 billion factory rescue guarantee and credit programme and the 200-220 billion support for energy intensive manufacturing SMEs. In the matter of the Member and his proposal in the interpellation, namely the introduction of a four-day working week, the Labour Code also allows today. The employer may allocate working time to four working days per week, unevenly in the working time frame or in the accounting period. They can therefore organise employment in accordance with their operational characteristics by applying a four-day working week. Recreation and leisure can also be allocated flexibly, making it easier to reconcile work and private life. I would like to stress that, in the case of shorter full-time working hours, the remuneration and other remuneration of the employee cannot be reduced or proportionate. The minimum mandatory wage, the minimum wage and the government decree setting the guaranteed minimum wage do not allow any difference in the monthly salary of the full-time worker in the case of shorter full-time periods or requires that the hourly rates be increased proportionately in this case. On the basis of the above, I do not believe that the issue you raised is timely, since the regulation currently allows for the introduction of a four-day working week. There's an example, the example of Telekom, I think we all know it. In answer to your question, I looked at the fact that in the vast majority of EU countries there is no specific regulation for a four-day working week, but, like Hungary, the current legislation allows unequal working time allocation for four days a week. As I mentioned in my introduction, the government is currently working to protect jobs, the livelihood of Hungarian families, during the crisis caused by sanctions in Brussels. We believe that we are creating an economy that anyone who wants and can work in Hungary can also work. Thank you for your question and your attention, Congressman. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-86	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-87	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am pleased that you acknowledge the benefits of a four-day working week, and thank you for telling me the truth that these aspects are really important. And I am telling you the truth that employment has indeed increased in Hungary, let us add that thanks to the international economic economy, and it is also true that the Labour Code does not explicitly rule out working in such a working order. Although I would like to make it clear that we would not be dividing the 40-hour working hours for less days, but reducing the working hours proportionately, I am talking about a 32-hour working week, and that is a bit tougher. In fact, on the day of surprising turns, I would be happy to accept the answer, only because the question was actually about the Hungarian government launching an experiment in this regard, encouraged by the example of large Hungarian companies and other governments in this direction, so unfortunately I do not accept the answer, but I appreciate the positive welcome, and I urge the government to start looking for roads in this new direction. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. When will the installation of wind power plants be allowed? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Csaba Lantos has appointed Minister for Energy with responsibility and competence. At the request of the Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, I think it is beyond discussion what a serious situation the energy crisis has created in Hungary today. And I also think that it is a responsibility for all of us to make less political slogans in this situation, rather than to try to be specific. I would like to ask you a very specific question, and I very much hope that, not for me, but for the public, there will be a concrete response. I think that today's Economic Committee meeting, where President György Matolcsy expressed a very harsh criticism, he said that Hungary is in such a difficult situation, partly because energy prices have been released because the government has not implemented the strategy for the use of renewable energy adopted at the time since 2010. In Hungarian, you didn't pay any attention, and obviously your predecessors didn't pay any attention to ensuring Hungary's energy independence by putting green and renewable energies first, which is why our exposure is very, very high now. President Matolcsy also stressed that virtually all external sources of energy efficiency should now be allocated to the green energy policy transition and that energy exposure should be reduced. With regard to wind energy, we have been calling for a very, very long time for our proposals to abolish the administrative restrictive measures taken by the government in 2016. By the way, this strategy, mentioned by the President of the Central Bank of Matolcsy, was adopted by the government in 2010 and did not use this option. And now we're seeing some serious chaos in government communications. Your former Minister, László Palkovics, made references earlier in the summer that the government would allow wind energy, and then Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here in Parliament said that there was a debate in the government, and he would very much like the Parliament to discuss this issue. On October 27, László Palkovics practically made an announcement that the government had taken this decision and then resigned. But on 14 November, Gergely Gulyás, at the Government Info, made it very clear and clear that the government wanted to give free access to wind energy. I obviously asked this question to Minister-designate Csaba Lantos at his hearing, where he confirmed it. The question is, if this decision has been made within the government, has it been decided? If it is born, why it will not be made public; when specific decisions, decisions, legislative proposals will be made to enable wind energy to be used. And if these were already born, and these pro-government speakers were referring to something, Gergely Gulyás also referred to it, why was it not presented to the public? So in particular, in addition to the fact that such commitments were made, when do these decisions appear on the ground of specifics? And I really hope that I can get a specific answer here. Thank you very much in advance.
u2022-12-05-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I believe that the two most important energy events of last week were the fact that the Ministry of Energy stood up on 1 December and the other on 2 December the Slovenian electricity transmission ceremony took place at which the Slovenian and Hungarian prime ministers participated. As Csaba Lantos said at the Commission hearings at that time as a candidate for minister, one of the main aspects of the work of the new Ministry is energy sovereignty. Obviously, the energy industry is a very, very resource-intensive industry, so the current situation can be changed slowly and with a lot of investment, but the government remains committed to using clean energy sources for the future. [[16.00]] If we are talking about the energy security of our country, and that is why I started with the Slovenian power lines, then it is another milestone because Hungary is practically connected in the seven directions and with the seven neighbouring countries in terms of high-voltage power grids. It's an important thing. I would also like to say, and I would like to draw your attention here, that we have not talked about this in recent years, that in 1999 the first Orbán government took the electricity pipeline to the Hungarian border and then connected it to the Croatian network. This is an important thing, and the Prime Minister also said that there is agreement that the two countries should also be connected to a gas pipeline. We know that the interconnector has already been implemented in six directions from seven countries, but Slovenia has not yet done so, but there is also agreement and the possibility of building a common pipeline. I also personally appreciate the fact that LMP considers the use of renewable energy sources to be very important. We have talked several times about solar power, and I think it is important that in the last five years, solar power has increased tenfold and now we have 3.8 gigawatts of solar power. It is therefore important to note that there has been a great deal of effort over the past period to increase renewable energy sources. In fact, in the last six months, you have been talking most about one renewable energy source, wind energy. There are currently 330 megawatts of wind power in Hungary, but in relation to wind wheels, as Minister Lantos said, sustainability and environmental aspects can be raised: what materials, what technology are they made of, and what will happen to them when their plant is finished. So these are issues that need to be dealt with absolutely. Minister also highlighted the fact that they are obviously not beautiful objects, so local communities have the right to raise a municipal, aesthetic questions and concerns; and there is noise, there is a question about birds, there are a lot of questions that need to be addressed. I think that this next period will be an important question. Of course, it was also mentioned that wind energy must be able to complement solar energy. Minister Lantos also said that first, however, network development must be implemented, that is the way forward, and then we can continue to deal with solar energy and wind power. The question of wind energy cannot be forced into any settlement. These are the things that were said at the Commission's hearing, but in this regard it has also been said that in the future this will be an issue that we will and would like to address clearly. So I ask the Member to support our efforts in this regard and to accept my reply. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-92	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary! I was very, very careful to get answers to these specific questions, but I couldn't find those answers in your speech with the best of intentions, so I can't accept your reaction, the answer. However, I would have called your attention to the fact that, as you said, these are slow processes, but your government has been in power for 12 and a half years, and in 12 and a half years the decisions should not have been prepared, because the LMP faction did, which included network modernisation, and could have done this green energy policy turn, which György Matolcsy also spoke about. This would be a huge task, but now we are very, very concerned, so we can say that if 12 and a half years were not enough for the government to make this turn, then it is worrying that now we see for six months that they are not actually able, not you, but the government is not able to say 'a' or 'b' on this issue. That is why we find it odd that our proposal was rejected at today's meeting of the Economic Committee, and the Prime Minister also looked forward to the opportunity to discuss this issue here at least. I think you need to see in this grave situation how much responsibility it is for these decisions to be made, so I urge the government to take these measures as soon as possible. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] so that Hungary can strengthen its energy independence on the basis of green energy sources. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2022-12-05-94	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. What does the Government do to help refugees from Ukraine to Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war, even due to the partial destruction of critical infrastructure, they come from an increasingly difficult situation in Ukraine, and from Transcarpathia to Hungary. As a neighbouring country, our solidarity with the attacked party is unbroken, partly in the interest of the large number of Hungarian minorities living there, and partly in the general and legitimate interest of Ukraine in sovereignty and territorial integrity. In this spirit, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán supported Ukraine's accession to the European Union in the European Council on behalf of the Hungarian Government, and urged that negotiations be launched as soon as possible to facilitate the creation of the conditions for effective accession. While the largest humanitarian action in Hungary is taking place, we are sending large quantities of food and industrial goods to help the Ukrainians, the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, both beyond our borders and within our borders. Now we are sending more generators, bandages, pharmaceutical packages, to give him as much help as possible in Ukraine and on Transcarpathia as possible, but we are consistent with the fact that we are not sending weapons to the war, we are not sending soldiers, and we are not releasing arms shipments across the Ukrainian-Hungarian border. Peace is in the interests of the Hungarians, we have always been on the side of peace. For those who are forced to leave their homes in Ukraine, we provide assistance to nearly one million refugees from the outbreak of the war: we have established several transit accommodations and points of assistance throughout the country, we continuously provide for the placement of children in school and kindergartens, we have provided camping opportunities for hundreds of children during the summer, and we are working to provide income for those who live temporarily in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, what further action is the government planning to take to ensure that this security is ensured within the borders? What are the opportunities for refugees to earn income? The last question is a rhetorical question: how do you want those fleeing Ukraine to see us as a supportive and friendly country and nation? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-12-05-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would also like to thank you personally for what you have done in the past three quarters of a year, as well as for the people living in the border region, the municipalities, the volunteers, the charities that you have done there; your work is fantastic and shocking. However, it should also be said that there are constant things in these now more than nine months, and there are variables. What's the variable? In any case, the number of refugees is changing: the number of people who have arrived in Hungary has reached one million, or they are seeking refuge in another country through Hungary. The number of people asking for a temporary residence certificate is also huge: 181,500, so nearly 200,000 have already taken advantage of this possibility. It is absolutely important how much the Hungarian nation has helped us in the spirit of solidarity. We have issued 855 thousand solidarity rail tickets over the past period, with charitable organisations offering nearly 3000 tonnes of food, medical equipment and other assistance, either beyond Transcarpathia or Transcarpathia, Internal Ukraine. Within Hungary, of these one million people who arrived in Hungary, nearly 460 thousand people were provided by charitable organizations either at the border points or in the BOK hall, whether by accommodation, food, medical care, health care, or even through the accommodation. [[16.10]] In addition, in the summer we tried to help Ukrainian families, 2500 Ukrainian children, not Hungarian children in Transcarpathia, but Ukrainian children in the last year. In addition, through the Ministry of Finance, there was a HUF 31 billion grant in Ukraine, and I do not want to list it now, from the items I have just said. All this is the result of the cooperation for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge, and this is a huge thing, in which even the municipalities... and let me list several municipalities in the region: Beregsurány and the other side of Beregsurány, also on the Beregszás side, Barabás, Lónya, Zahony and Tiszabecs are the settlements that took their part in the first place. But that doesn't mean that either the other settlements or any settlement in Hungary wouldn't have done everything they could to help. However, both the volunteers and the six large charities and the public bodies have done their work together in the framework of the Bridge Transcarpathia programme. It's a constant one, and we said we don't carry guns, we don't deliver soldiers. Thanks to this, Transcarpathia is an island of peace, thanks to which refugees from Internal Ukraine find peace and can live much more peacefully than in Internal Ukraine. What also does not change is the opposition's position and the opposition's behaviour. If we hadn't made the decision in 2010 to give them dual citizenship, as well as to Transcarpathians, many wouldn't have been able to escape, many would have been dragged into a war that wasn't their war, and many would have perished there. This is our policy, I mean, that we want peace, that we want peace, that we give humanitarian aid, but don't drag us into the war. Thank you all for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-98	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-12-05-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for mentioning at the end how many Hungarian young men could stay in Hungary living with their Hungarian citizenship, and so we almost saved their lives. I think it is very important to talk about this too, and thank you very much for highlighting the municipalities that are directly bordering with Transcarpathia, all the settlements in my constituency, and also the settlements that are neighbouring settlements, but were actively involved in helping. I am also extremely proud of the fact that here, sitting in Parliament on the pro-government side, I have personally met several fellow Members and several governmental actors, as they have also helped as volunteers and coordinated fundraising, which is very important for the difficult Transcarpathian Hungarians, the Ukrainians who are in difficulty. Thank you very much, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance: - How does the Government protect pensioners from the adverse consequences of sanctioned inflation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-101	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In the current war environment, in the context of the global energy crisis, the food crisis and the runaway inflation caused by the failed Brussels sanctions policy, we must place a particular emphasis on the protection of Hungarian families and our most needy fellow citizens. In this spirit, we must also act when it comes to the elderly, pensioners. Pension is one of the most fundamental elements of the protection provided to them. Appreciation of pensioners has been a priority for the Orbán government since the beginning. Thanks to the consistent economic policy of the last decade, the performance of the Hungarian economy has enabled the government not only to preserve but also to increase the purchasing value of pensions. The amount of pensions has thus increased by almost 70 percent since 2010, and their purchasing power has increased by about 20 percent. The government undertook and held the inflation-following pension increase, on several occasions, for the fifth time since 2017, it paid a pension premium, and even returned the 13th month pension to pensioners. On the left, however, this sin is not the only thing on the left. The Orbán government will also undertake the inflation-following pension increase in the current high penalty inflation, even as promised by Prime Minister, as every pensioner will receive the 13th month pension next year. As he said, difficult times, crisis or no crisis, Hungary gives pensioners what they deserve. The government decided on the gradual repayment of the 13th month pension taken by the left during the pandemic in 2020. As a result of last December's decision, the elderly received their first full 13th month pension in February this year, and they did not have to wait until 2024. According to the statements made by the Minister for Finance at the beginning of this week, the 13th month pension is due in February, and another pension increase is expected in January. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: how does the Government protect pensioners from the harmful consequences of sanctioned inflation? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-103	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the war in our neighbourhood and the sanctions in Brussels have caused no energy crisis and war inflation throughout Europe for decades, when the security of the Hungarian people is of paramount importance to the government. We have seen, in recent years, that the civilian government's method of crisis management, as you have said, is different from that of previous left-wing governments. The government is committed to respecting the elderly, pursuing responsible economic policies and making decisions that can be implemented safely in a given economic situation. The left raised taxes in crisis situations, took the family allowance from parents who had children, raised the rent, and took away the 13th month pension from the elderly. Since 2010, voters have seen that while Hungary has a national government, the purchasing value of pensions is guaranteed. The promise made in 2010 to protect the purchasing value of pensions has been maintained, and the purchasing value of pensions has increased by around 20% since 2010, if the 13th month pension is taken into account, and in nominal terms, as you said, by almost 70%. This was done in an economic environment where the whole world was plagued by a pandemic that put the whole world on a new task to be solved. The Hungarian government has done everything in its power to protect families so that the Hungarian economy can return to growth as soon as possible, the results of which are constantly perceived by families, including the elderly. So the elderly, including pensioners, have experienced that they have always been able to rely on the government for the past 12 years. The Social Insurance Pension Act ensures the purchasing value of pensions properly, as it must be increased to the extent of inflation. In November, an additional increase should be paid if the projected inflation is justified by the end of the year. The real value of pensions is thus guaranteed. The Pension Act also empowers the Government to take additional measures if the necessary conditions exist, in the light of actual or expected macroeconomic developments and data. With this option, an extra pension increase was made in the summers 2021 and 22 to ensure that the value of pensions was not even temporarily reduced. [[16.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, From January this year, the government increased pensions by 5 percent. After that, given that inflation is increasing by 3.9 per cent due to sanctioned inflation, and then in November, a further 4.5 per cent pension increase was made, of course, going back to January. The additional increase was granted to about 2.5 million people who received a pension increase in January, i.e. whose old-age pension was established from 1 January. Honourable Congressman, The government is therefore still committed to respecting the elderly and preserving the value of pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-05-104	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2022-12-05-105	Dear Secretary of State, Because of the war in our neighbourhood and the failed sanctions policy of the Union, we are living in a very difficult time. At this very difficult time, however, the protection of older people is of paramount importance to us, since they are more vulnerable than others by reason of their age and health. We, Christian Democrats, therefore, consider it important to help and support the daily lives of the elderly by every means possible. I thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, and I respectfully accept it. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-05-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the interpellation negotiations, and we are now continuing our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Lords or servants? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári granted the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman whether he will accept the person of the response or ask for an answer in person. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We all know that the wages of teachers are shamefully and impossiblely low. One example of this is that a high school in Budapest recently sought out afternoon cleaning workers for the same amount of net salary as a teacher who also taught his major in English. In a normal country, the trade union will enter into negotiations with the decision-makers, and then, if this does not result, it will call the workers on strike. I'm telling you, in a normal country, because you have de facto eliminated the possibility of strike for teachers, and those teachers who have used the instrument of civil disobedience to protest against this have been dismissed with extraordinary notice. This is not punishment, but retribution, in the spirit of Mr. State Secretary Stalin, that we do not show, but make, an example. Of course, I could argue with that opinion if someone took the trouble to argue with me, because after the firing of the teachers of the sorority, I contacted Mrs. Marosi Beatrix on the phone, so I couldn't reach her, so I wrote her a letter to justify the immediate firing of the teachers of the sorcerers, but she hasn't responded to this letter in 60 days. Dear Secretary of State, In the rule of law, public authorities serve the citizen, not reversed. All public bodies are obliged to respond to the citizen. Hungary is not a state of law for a long time, but perhaps there is still this possibility here, especially with the Act on Parliament giving me the right to have the public authorities give me the necessary information for my work. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State, the law applies to district leaders. If so, what will the government do to ensure that they do so? And if teachers get laid off for one hour of misconduct, then what punishment awaits the civil servant who repeatedly and continuously violates his statutory obligation? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári.
u2022-12-05-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Minister of Shadows, Dear House, You wanted to exchange ideas on the issue of public education. Mr President, Mr President, perhaps you should have been here throughout the parliamentary debate on the issue of education. You stormed in, gave your speech, and then stormed out of the room. We've been here the whole time. [[Gergely Arató: When will the school district manager respond?]] Ask a politician, a politician. Then ask us, Your Honour. There was an entire parliamentary debate day here, why didn't you take this opportunity to ask questions? You can also write letters to civil servants, you can do it as a politician, but as a politician, it may be fairer to ask a politician and not try to pressure civil servants in any way or attack politically. You're talking about being on strike in a normal country. Hungary is also a normal country, honourable Member, and it is possible to strike. The condition is that five days earlier you have to announce that you want to strike, three days earlier you have to announce how many people are taking part in the strike, and one day before that, the head of the institution can determine which classes will be held, which lessons will not be held, that the custody of children is determined. Where there is no strike, for example, Germany. Don't you think Germany is a democracy? Do you think Germany is not a rule of law, honourable Member? As for teachers' wages, you know what is common in Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Hiller, Csaba Molnár, Lajos Oláh, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju? [[Gergely Harvestó: We are all very nice people.]] In addition to sitting around you, they're surrounding you here in Parliament, you know what they have in common? They all voted in favour of the teacher's wage cuts, all of them, one by one, and you stand up from this wreath and tell the government to raise wages. We say that there should be a wage increase, there will be a 10% increase, but we want a bigger increase. We want 21 percent instead of 10 percent next year, 25 percent after next year instead of 10 percent, and then 29 percent. And when you voted here, you were already here, and you can't stand up. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The only people who were here were the others! So what did you guys vote for? It's posted on Facebook. DK is the only party that voted against in Parliament today. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Now, we have voted on the conditions that have opened the way for the resources needed to raise higher teachers' wages. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true! You're not telling the truth! Wow. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, then you voted no for teachers. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] The Shadow Minister will answer.
u2022-12-05-110	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Barkóczi, who is entitled to the right of rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, what I wanted to say here on the last point is that my fellow Member, Mr Arató, has already said. As a matter of fact, I didn't think you were going to answer me, but the smear you just cut me off was a shock. On the one hand, she proved that she did what she did, not on her own initiative, but on political hints or political impulses, and that is why teachers are now being kicked out of Karinthy Frigyes High School. If you've already referred to the shadow government, that's why Klara Dobrev has brought her shadow government to life to show that there is an alternative. That is why we say that it is necessary to give back to the municipalities, together with the costs for maintaining them, the institutions that call for this, and to show that we must choose a government in which ministers are not, in the Latin sense, masters, but servants of the nation, because you are unable to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-113	Thank you very much. Speaking of the Shadow Prime Minister, Dobrev Klára, let me also quote this year's recent quote: "Educators don't need any pre-election government business. That's what he said a year ago about the teacher's wage increase, that there's no need for this in the government. [[Gergely Harvesto: It wasn't like that! You're not telling the truth again!]] Speaking of which, Congressman Arato, I'd like to quote you as yourself. [[Gergely Harvesto: Here you go.]] Didn't you say that when you were demonstrated during your time, the demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the demonstration doesn't dissuade the wallet from its original intention? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Gergely Arató: And there was also a sequel to the need to negotiate. The president's ringing the bell.]] So you said that nothing will change.
u2022-12-05-114	Congressman Harvester, please.
u2022-12-05-115	We thought that when we were in the beginning of a cycle and long - term plans could be put on the table, we should first ask teachers about this. In the first round, 25,000 responded, and in the second round 33,000 responded. Now we are going to ask parents about important questions about education, until this morning 52,000 answered. Thank all respondents [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that these responses were sent in the consultation on education. We'll be waiting until the 15th of de-cember for answers, because we'll be listening to them. (The President indicated the expiry of the time limit.) You said you wouldn't listen to them, but we asked for the opinion of all Hungarian parents and all Hungarian teachers because we wanted to serve them. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-116	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question. It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári granted the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.30]]
u2022-12-05-117	Mr President, Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, I am not led in this debate by a fight, but by the quality of education, and I am interested in what you and the government really think. In the past, roughly one month, 13 teachers have been dismissed for disciplinary reasons, including teachers and teachers of the best high schools in the country, those who prepare students for graduation and their group and their class will graduate in a few months. What I'm trying to say is, I'd rather ask, "Who's disobeying?" Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to quote an ex-conspirator of the citations, so please honor me by listening. I resigned because I felt that we had deceived the teachers. We created a law, related regulations, we invented and announced a order, then Minister Matolcsy said at the end of 2012 that there was no money to tie the teacher's wage to the minimum wage. And it didn't seem to work to me that there's a new system on the teachers, we expect ratings, more work and administration, but we can't guarantee a higher salary. This was said by Secretary of State Gloviczki on 14 November, one of your predecessors. Thirteen great people were put on the street, fired. Who is disobedient, Mr. Secretary? [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-05-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we can agree that in Hungary, anyone who exercises his legal right to strike, who avails himself of the demonstration opportunity provided by the law, has not suffered any disadvantage. This has not always been the case in Hungary. We remember 2006, but it doesn't happen this time. Now anyone can strike. In my previous speech, I said the legal conditions for this. We can remember what the previous regulation was. They submitted the text about the strike, the claim, a long trial followed, and a court ruling, and about six months passed between the announcement and the holding of the strike. Now it's shortened to five days. You don't have to wait six months, you have to wait five days. I think five days is faster than six months. I think it's a more predictable way to stop legal work if it has to be done five days earlier. It's clear, it's objective, because what they said six months ago, compared to six months later, is something else that would be the first part of their demands, let's say. Obviously, wage increases are always one of the most important demands. This is to be said that the practice of the strike, the assembly legally, the demonstration is given to everyone, and therefore no one has suffered any disadvantage over the last few months, and you can obviously do so later. As far as Mr Gloviczki is concerned, I think you know him, I know him very well, we talked to him many times after he was Deputy Secretary of State for Education, then he led the Education Office, and now he is the head of the most important educational body of the Ministry of Interior, the Education Department of the Scientific Council, and he continues his activities among the government to this day, and Vácon also holds an important rectorship at the Vilmos Apor Catholic College, but he also helps the government in the same way as he did between 2010 and 2012. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-120	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-12-05-121	I'm glad to hear that you're thinking of the former Secretary of State to help you do your job, because I quote once again, I resigned because I felt that we had deceived the teachers. Then hear him out. But, Mr Secretary, to get to the essential part, there is a debate. This debate began when they broke their promise and after one and a half to two years the salary and basic salary of teachers were no longer tied to the minimum wage. That was the starting point. Then the teachers started protesting, and then you changed the rules during the process, changed the teachers' right to strike during the process, and now they say it's illegal. It's like when they find out at the soccer game in the 47th minute that they're allowed to play at one gate, not two. They changed the laws during the process, that's why the protest is, so the teachers and students can't agree with you, by the way. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-05-122	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that there is a rare kind of strike, a rare demonstration where, before the first protest or the first strike day, the government already states that it fully agrees with the demand for strike, the demands of demonstrators, and indeed the government wants to raise wages, and accepts a budget that includes cover for this increase with the additional HUF 80 billion in the education budget, and we say that, since after the epidemic, we have such an opportunity to turn our EU funds into wage increases, we would also use a very significant part of those who come to the human space to raise more than HUF 80 billion, and, of course, it would be good if the Hungarian opposition did not prevent it in Brussels, but perhaps to promote it. I think it's a special situation in itself that the government supports the main demands of strikers before the strike starts. And I leave it up to you which one you think is better regulation for a strike planner, the German, where you cannot strike, the old Hungarian, where you had to go to court for six months and sue in court about the still sufficient service, or the current one, which makes the possibility of strike automatic in five days, as many people have lived with it, and we have fully respected it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-124	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Gelencsér, Dávid Bedő, Kristóf Tompos, and Szabolcs Szabó, representatives of Momentum, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Please answer, Prime Minister. It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the Momentum Group said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you say, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister's absence allowed Minister Tibor Navracsics to reply. In view of the fact that the Head of the Momentum did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, this should therefore be considered as not to be a personal response by the questioning representative on the basis of the decision-making house rule. You have the floor, Congressman. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2022-12-05-125	Thank you very much, I just didn't realize that you had to answer now. Thank you very much for the floor. I was hoping the Prime Minister would visit the last meeting of the year, but it's okay. [[Bence Rétvári: He was here! You weren't in there? Dr. Robert Répássy: And there will be a meeting!]] The war has been going on in our neighborhood for nine months, a war that has taken tens of thousands of lives and will determine the fate of Europe for many decades. The government, of which you are part, plays a continuous swing policy. The foreign minister is still a guest in Russia, and lies Russian propaganda is spreading in Hungary, and Fidesz MEPs are cowardly not taking part in the vote when it comes to deciding whether Russia is a State in support of terrorism. Other European countries increasingly refer to Hungary and your government as Putin's Trojan horse in the European Union. Yet, at the level of words, they pretend to support the Ukrainian party. Minister, I have a very, very simple question for you today. Help me be clear: whose side are you on? On the side of the attacked Ukrainians or the aggressor Russians? Thank you.
u2022-12-05-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Tibor Navracsics. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-12-05-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, We're on the side of peace, that's very clear. We're helping Ukraine with our strength. More than a million Ukrainian refugees have already crossed the Ukrainian-Hungarian border, which means that we are one of the few European countries that can help Ukrainian refugees significantly, beyond their strength, as compared to the Hungarian population. [[16.40]] But we help them not only here in Hungary, but also in Ukraine. We will rebuild, rebuild schools where it is possible, help the Ukrainian people to start life again, either here in Hungary, by providing them with a place of residence, a job, or in Ukraine by helping them with humanitarian aid, by rebuilding the infrastructure. There is no question for us that peace and Ukraine's support are compatible. However, we are in contact with Russia, partly because of the energy situation, because of our vulnerability. We're not the only ones. As opposed to President Macron, for example, you are not, but others are criticizing the fact that you talk to Vladimir Putin almost weekly and are trying to find a solution. This is not the solution we choose. We choose to support, help Ukraine, and at the same time, in terms of our vulnerability, we try to alleviate it by reaching good agreements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-128	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-129	Thank you very much, but that is not what I asked, Minister, and you have not given me a clear answer to my question. We all want peace, there is a complete consensus between us, but we are not interested in you or your government wanting peace, but in whose side the Government of Hungary is on in this war. This is a binary issue; there are two options and no more. The Hungarian government is the only country in the European Union that is misrepresenting this issue. The only one! Any EU Member State, member of the government of any EU Member State, would ask this question without even thinking about taking sides with Ukraine. Don't even think about it. In nine months, you have been unable to make a clear statement on this issue and to resolve doubts in the minds of the Hungarian people and our allies. Minister, once again, whose side is the Hungarian Government on? There are two choices, two: Ukraine or Russia. Choose. Thank you.
u2022-12-05-130	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2022-12-05-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, Since I see there are problems with understanding texts, I recall my previous reply. More than a million Ukrainian refugees crossed the Ukrainian-Hungarian border. This means that, compared to a nation of less than ten million people, one of the biggest burdens we have is the provision of Ukrainian refugees. In Hungary we provide them with jobs and homes, in Ukraine we rebuild the infrastructure, and we help Ukraine as soon as we can. There is no question that we are in favour of Ukraine. That's what I just said. At the same time, we are basically on the side of peace. I hope you understand my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-132	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Z. Kárpát Dániel, László György Lukács and Brenner Koloman, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Jobbik faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: From his work to the cemetery? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics has given him the right to reply. In view of the fact that Jobbik's group leader said in advance that the Member who asked the question accepted the alternate responder, it is for the Member to ask the immediate question. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I wonder if my fellow pro-government Members know who they are: they work more than the Germans, but they earn less than the Romanians. Indeed, I am talking about Hungarian workers who have been banished to the bottom of the global production chains of multinationals. I am talking about those who are far from being paid for in value, those whom, according to the neoliberal government manual of use, are considered to be unqualifiedly eviscerated as a kind of labor animal or biorobot. According to dead OECD data, they work 30 percent more year-on-year than the Germans, and if you look at the Romanian minimum wage, then, shamefully, their net will be ahead of the domestic minimum wage next year, and then we didn't talk about Slovak or Polish values that exceed the domestic level by 200 euros. And then we also didn't talk about purchasing power, nor did we talk about how it can happen in absurdity that even though our agricultural properties are excellent, we can still encounter a brutal food price explosion of 50 percent. Well, if we compare all this, then we have to say that Hungarian workers are simply squeezed out. And all of this is reflected in our incredibly bad public health indicators and tragic mortality data, because the premature deterioration of Hungarian men's health and early death are shockingly, incredibly wrong. A lot of people from work go straight to the cemetery, they can't rest a minute. Therefore, I respectfully ask, when do you finally think it would be fair, like the Hungarian ladies, to ensure that men, after forty years of working, can finally get some rest. I'm waiting for an answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-12-05-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Tibor Navracsics. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-12-05-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, I'm not really a pension reform expert. I must say that as regards the description of the situation of Hungarian workers, if not so dramatic, but in many respects we agree. But I think it's a long journey, it's not the kind of problem we've had since the morbus hungaricus, we can say it's been like this for 150 to 180 years. We can move forward step by step. I think this is typically an area where a national consensus could be established. What we are working on, what is within our potential, is improving the health care system, improving the situation of workers through labour law legislation. But you are absolutely right, the financial circumstances do not yet reach the level that we can be content. The health status of the country is also a cause for concern. We all know we're at the top of almost all bad health statistics and all good health statistics in the back. I propose that we take action to this end in the spirit of a national consensus that has been formed over several generations. I'm sure I'm ready for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-136	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-12-05-137	Minister, thank you very much for your reply. I'll be honest, I'm very surprised by this fairness, but I can't accept it. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] That's why I can't accept your answer... [[The Benedictine of Rétvári:]] Mr. Secretary of State laughs so sarcastically, there's a reason why I can't accept that answer. For example, while a Hungarian male can expect a healthy life span of 61.5 years, a Swedish partner can calculate 11 years in health. And while we're meeting with statistics like this, while you're making laws that, for example, would allow people who are sick of work to be forced to resign without any severance pay. Then how is that? The beautiful words ring beautifully, but the reality is much, much sadder on the Hungarian Autumn. So, Minister, please adjust your actions to your words. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-12-05-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2022-12-05-139	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much. You see, you're surprised by my correctness, but I'm not surprised that you didn't accept my correctness. After all, we are here in Hungary, this is Hungarian politics. So much for the national consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-140	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: What is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics has given him the right to reply. In view of the fact that the leader of the Dialogue did not make a preliminary statement on the request for a personal reply, this should therefore be considered as not to be a personal response by the questioning representative on the basis of the decision-making house rule. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-12-05-141	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me begin by saying hello to the activists of the Teaching Movement who have appeared here. Unfortunately, there's a reason they're here in the House. [[16.50]] Minister, your former fellow minister, László Palkovics, said in 2016 that within a year or two the average salary of the teacher will reach 80% of the average salary of the diploma. Now, first of all, I would like to ask why an educator is worth only 80 percent of the other graduates, so your promise here is scandalous and vile, but this was then, right, in 16-17, when there was no teacher's wage increase at all linked to EU money, compared to this, nothing was done in this area. Now, they say it's going to be 5 percent, 10 percent, and then it's going to be 9 plus things, and it's going to come together, and you know it's possible to raise the wages of teachers by 50 percent right now, because it can be managed from 286 billion forints. We know this because the Dialogue submitted it, and now it has been re-submitted because it has been voted down once before to raise the wages of teachers immediately from 1 January. Do you know where we took it from? The Paks II. There is a large amount of HUF 286 billion in investment that has not yet existed in this case. [[Bence Rétvári: The smartest thing in an energy crisis is not to be a nuclear power plant. Very clever.]] And I think if there's 300 billion forints on the Vodafone package, I'm sure there's a price increase for teachers. [[A statement from the opposition.]] 286 billion forints, so you're lying. I would like to ask the Minister when the wages of teachers will be honoured. Look here, Minister, because you're not gonna see this good picture I brought you. [[He raises a document.]] Teachers' wages in proportion to their graduation payments, OECD data, it's...
u2022-12-05-142	Congresswoman, I'd like to ask you to put it away.
u2022-12-05-143	...the last one here...
u2022-12-05-144	Please put it away.
u2022-12-05-145	...Hungary, I'll show you this, the last...
u2022-12-05-146	I'm warning you.
u2022-12-05-147	...rubrika...
u2022-12-05-148	I'm warning you...
u2022-12-05-149	...Hungary.
u2022-12-05-150	...for the second time. [[Szabó Timea will put the document down.]]
u2022-12-05-151	Answer me, Minister, when will you raise it with honor? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Teachers' wages! Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-12-05-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister Tibor Navracsics will answer the immediate question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2022-12-05-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, I'll answer you, all you need to do is finish your lead question. According to our agreement with the European Commission, in 2023 the average salary of teachers will be 64.7 percent of the average salary of graduates, 71.8 percent in 2024 and 80 percent in 2025, which means that in 2025, if the current rates of earnings remain, the average salary of graduates will be HUF 972 901 gross in 2025 and the average salary of teachers will be HUF 777 673 on average. Why isn't 100 percent of the average graduating salary? For example, the income of the financial sector, the income of the private sector, is included in the average wage. Unfortunately, we are not as competitive in the public sector as we are in the private sector, nor are we graduates. Our agreement with the European Commission allows the European Commission to co-finance most of the co-financing in the first years, and the Hungarian Government will take over in the last two years. In this way, we can arrange for the average wage of teachers to be HUF 777 673 by 2025. Of course, we hope that as many as possible will be above it. [[László Kordás: There is no budget, what are we talking about?! Zsolt Gréczy: There is no budget!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-154	I thank the Minister for his reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-155	I'm sorry, Minister, really, it's so humiliating, scandalous and despicable, what the government represents. I understand that you have just been appointed to suffer here because Hungary did not receive the HUF 3000 billion from the European Union, so you will be punished because you have negotiated, but it is still a very mean thing. On the one hand, it's just an average, so it's 80 percent. That the financial sector may be the top, but what a humiliating thing is that they will want 80 percent by 2025, and then they will definitely change this and that, because György Matolcsy has a salary of 6 million now, while a teacher's average salary is 230,000 forints now! So amazingly, really, what you're doing is a scandal. Not to mention the firings. They just warned teachers after the Potter at Berzhenyi. They think it's a problem in Budapest. They're ruining the whole country, our future by destroying education. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The president bell rings) They're gonna take revenge and intimidate me...
u2022-12-05-156	Congresswoman...
u2022-12-05-157	...in this country...
u2022-12-05-158	...thank you.
u2022-12-05-159	I've had enough of this. Here. [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] Appreciate the teachers, the students! Thank you. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2022-12-05-160	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I understand your anger, but that's not a good counselor. If you ask us to deliver the salary of the President of the Central Bank, we will once again have the anger of the European Union. [[Szabó Timea: Jaaaj!]] and I wouldn't do that, because they see one of the most important guarantees of independence in the fact that the President of the Central Bank stands out from among the others in terms of his earnings. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I myself come from a family of educators, and I myself am a teacher, even if I work in higher education, so you can believe me that I agree with the teacher's salary. That's all we can do right now, in this time frame. I would like to note that before you finally confuse the terms, the suspension of HUF 3000 billion is not a penalty, but a suspension. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] That money won't be lost, we'll get it. [[Szabó Timea: Just transform!]] You're being very witty. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We will receive it as soon as our implementation period ends by the end of March. This was confirmed by the European Commission itself at the last press conference, in case you missed it. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] Then I suggest you take a look, find him. [[Gergely Harvestó: You would have to meet the conditions for that! Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I'm glad you've given Mr. Arató such an interest. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We will receive it as soon as our implementation period ends by the end of March. This was confirmed by the European Commission itself at the last press conference, in case you missed it (Zoltán Vajda intervenes) Then I suggest you take a look, find him. (Gergely Harvesting: The conditions would have to be met! Szabó Timea intervenes. ) I am glad that Mr. Arató had such an interest (the president bell rings) It's my comment, too. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Thank you very much for your attention. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-162	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question about what is there money for, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the leader of the Group of Mi Hungary has stated in advance that he is asking for a personal reply. [[Szabó Timea hands over two documents to Dr. Tibor Navracsics, and Rebecca Szabó takes pictures with her mobile phone.]] Therefore, the Prime Minister's absence requires him to respond at the hour of the next immediate questions. [[Szabó Timea:]] Congresswoman, if I'm not disturbing you, be so kind as to have this conversation or this photo shoot here about the private conversation... [[Szabó Timea: You have the right!]] Congresswoman, I think the meeting is taking place. If I may ask. [[Szabó Timea: What?!]] If you would be so kind as to take your place. [[Szabó Timea: Well, I'll take it! Dr. Robert Répássy: He hasn't finished the show yet!]] You don't seem to understand the previous warning. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Filmmaking, Congresswoman, filmmaking and various Facebook posts, please be kind enough to make them elsewhere, thank you, this is the Parliament. [[Gergely Arató to Timea Szabó: You are taking the time away from the other opposition representatives. Szabó Timea intervenes.]] This is Parliament, I repeat to you. [[Szabó Timea: Fortunately, the Vice President has no right to tell me where to do it!]] I'm done. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why are they not spending on Hungarian people? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics has given him the right to reply. In view of the fact that the Head of the Group of Mi Hazan did not make a preliminary statement on the personal response request, this should therefore be regarded as not asking for a personal reply by the representative who asked the question on the basis of the House Rule of Decision. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Minister, At the November meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, the Prime Minister stated that Hungary will not accept the joint borrowing of EU Member States to help Ukraine, and he explained that he would not be willing to put Ukraine's interests ahead of Hungary's interests. We would agree with that, but it seems to the Prime Minister that it would no longer appear that it would be against the interests of Hungary if we were to support Ukraine in the same way, only through a bilateral agreement, although he acknowledged that this amount would be missing from the Hungarian budget. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) To help Ukraine in any form, Hungary should contribute EUR 187 million in GDP-related terms, which at the current rate would mean a loss of approximately HUF 77 billion per year from the national budget in the middle of the livelihood crisis. The Hungarian Movement does not support the indebtedness of Hungary or the European Union, and we especially do not pay interest on a loan from which we have been helping Ukraine, which has been pursuing a chauvinist and anti-Hungarian policy for decades. We cannot accept, in the form of bilateral agreements, that Hungarian taxpayers' money will be spent around HUF 70 billion a year on the operation of one of the most corrupt countries in the world, while education, health care, low wages, pensions, businesses will go bankrupt, prices, inflation and overhead costs, as well as insufficient money to maintain foreign Hungarian institutions. In order to help Hungarians across the border, for example, the Bethlen Gábor Fund's tender resources decreased by more than half in 2021 compared to the previous year, by HUF 79 billion, which represents an annual loss of an order of magnitude as much as the amount intended to help Ukraine. [[17.00]] I ask Minister for his reply on why the money for Ukraine's support is not being used to help Hungarian families, businesses and to maintain Hungarian NGOs from abroad, including Transcarpathia. Thank you very much. [[David Dócs applauds.]]
u2022-12-05-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The answer is addressed to Minister Tibor Navracsics. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-165	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Member, Ukraine has been attacked. We may have different opinions about the war, the causes that led to it, but the fact is that Ukraine has been attacked has made millions of people who have to find homes, who have to start their lives again, and Ukraine, a major territory of the country, is now an area of operations. We have to help, I think it's humanitarian aid. And while the Hungarian government's position is that we disagree with the common EU borrowing, partly because of what you say, so as not to have to pay interest to the Hungarian people, but for humanitarian reasons we take it for granted to help Ukrainian families whose everyday lives, jobs, family and buildings have been destroyed. We believe that this is the obligation that not only as a Member State of the European Union, but also as a Central European State, as a neighbour of Ukraine, as a state whose communities live there, we must do, as a moral duty. That is why we thought that we would provide assistance to the attacked Ukraine on a bilateral basis. I'm asking you to be reasonable about this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2022-12-05-166	Thank you very much, Minister: Mr István Szabadi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I will not be able to accept your reply, given that the government supports not only Ukraine's operation, but also Ukrainian arming, by complying with the European Union's request with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. The European Union has so far spent EUR 3 billion on the arms of Ukraine outside the EU from the fund created in 2021, called the Ironically European Peace Framework, in which Hungary has also committed itself. According to government communication, Hungary does not deliver weapons to Ukraine, but this year, the government, on the basis of a government decision, has supported the purchase of weapons for Ukraine by HUF 4.7 million in the order of magnitude, and plans to pay an additional EUR 40.8 million, or almost HUF 17 billion, into the peace framework, which, according to the opinion of the Hungarian Movement, should be used to help Hungarian families, and we find these subsidies totally unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[David Dócs applauds.]]
u2022-12-05-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Sadly, though, of course I respect the position of our country on this matter. This is the case when a government stands in the middle: one opposition party attacks because it is too Russian-friendly and the other opposition party attacks because it is too Ukrainian-friendly. This best shows that we are probably in the right place and have a good policy. If the opposition is attacking from both sides, we must be in the middle. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-170	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Minister?" It's an address. I'm sorry, that's the next one. I'm sorry. [[Bence Rétvári: We'll get there!]] Yeah, here's the new card. Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. I would like to inform the House that the head of the LMP faction said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so that he will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions due to the absence of Prime Minister. The next question of the LMP Group will now be that of my fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, which I have just begun to present. [[Bence Rétvári: What's it called?]] Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The future is in crisis, the Hungarian country is in crisis and crisis, because the education system is on the verge of collapse because of the outdated NAT, due to the constant decline in the purchasing value of teachers' wages. The only thing keeping the education system working is the infinite commitment of teachers to teach and prepare our children for the life ahead. [[The guests in the gallery will stand up and turn their backs on the Chamber, and the letter on their T-shirt can be read together with the word TALKING.]]
u2022-12-05-172	My apologies, Congressman, unfortunately there has been a disturbance in the gallery, and there have been people who are holding a political demonstration, and since there are people in the gallery... [[Gergely Harvester applauds.]] Congressman, you, who were State Secretary, should not applaud, Mr Arató, because you should know that under the strict rules of this House, the gallery has never been able to give an opinion. That's why I'm forced to take a break until the disoriented ones leave the gallery. (Sunning: 17.05 p.m. 17.10 p.m.) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Dezső Believer)
u2022-12-05-173	[[With his phone to Szabó Timea, the seat room:]] I'm warning you, because there's no break now! I warn you, Congresswoman, that if I warn you again, I will be forced to send you out of here. [[Szabó Timea: Mr. President! It's online.]] And, you know, dear Congresswoman, Vice-President of the Group or Madam Party President, Madam Co-President, honor would wish that if someone arranged something, they would take responsibility for it. Thank you. [[Szabó Timea: I would be very proud to do it, but I didn't direct it, unfortunately!]] (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Minister?" It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I have asked you before, but I will ask Mr Csárdi again to accept the person of the response. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As I have already started, the future is in crisis, Hungary is in crisis, because the education system is on the verge of collapse. It's on the verge of collapse, because NAT is untimely, because teachers' wages are practically less worth every day. Unfortunately, what keeps the whole system going is the endless commitment of teachers. Unfortunately, however, the government's commitment to this issue cannot be achieved, as you know, as I do, that since 2015, teachers' wages have lost more than 40 percent of their value. It's only 20 percent inflation this year, and yet, I think my first question should be what you think, that the violence you're now committing in the pedagogical community, who you're hurting, who you're using. The abuse you show against the redundant teachers, use it for Hungary, use it for the education system, use it for students or parents? You can clearly say it's not working. We also know precisely that money is the weapon in the rule of law of Fidesz, and I think that we need to have clear questions for teachers to receive a fair wage increase in the future and not to talk about 10 and 20 percent, but to talk about a rate of at least 50 to 100 percent in real terms, to ensure that graduates have the calm conditions to prepare, and I respectfully ask, Mr Secretary of State, to plan further redundancies. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-05-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-176	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The last few minutes have also shown what the Hungarian Left, the Hungarian opposition, is capable of. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties. Ferenc Gelencsér: Oh, my God! Oh, my God.]] Selfie's good, action isn't good. You were here, too, honourable Member, a few weeks ago. [[Antal Csárdi: Did I have a phone in my hand?]] when we all voted for 10% or 21 percent of teachers to raise their wages [[Antal Csárdi: That's not enough!]] by adding EU funds to that resource. [[Gergely Arató: Don't steal it, and then there will be an EU source!]] At the time, you were not as active as you are now, honourable Member. Then you didn't press the yes button. Then you did not support this proposal. In fact, you are hoping for some kind of political benefit from these current actions, but you are not helping teachers, but here in Parliament, you are blocking them by your own vote. Some people are proud of it, some say on Facebook that although the government has put forward proposals that would obviously increase the teacher's wage, they are proud to say that you voted no to this. Yet, honourable Member, would it not be your job if we had an opportunity to increase the teacher's wage increase to not 10 per cent but 21 per cent next year, would you vote for this? Isn't that what you should have done to the Hungarian teachers? And did you, Your Honour? He didn't do it. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: We voted for it! We voted for it, they voted for it!]] When there's any demonstration, you go there and self-destruct. They're very strong in this, like they're doing something for teachers. Those who previously played a leading role in education have a very rancid past, they reduced teacher wages, closed schools, made teacher training pay, and took a month's wages from Hungarian teachers, and introduced tuition fees. [[Gergely Harvestó: We gave you 50 percent, you always forget that!]] That was the left. You have joined this left. They said there might be a different policy, but they joined the school locker, teacher's wage reduction and the 15,000 teachers who were dismissed. You joined this left of Gyurcsány of your own free will. But when you can clear up a little bit at this disadvantage and show that you are, after all, partners with the government, that's not what you do. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And when we have an educational debate day... I think my time is up, I'll tell you what they'll do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Gergely Harvestó: We look forward to it! You've told me 47 times...]]
u2022-12-05-177	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-178	Dear Secretary of State, You are mistaken if you believe that the nearly 50 percent depreciation that teachers have suffered since 2015 can compensate for a 20% or 10 percent increase in wages. This is a crazy mistake or bullshit! The fact is, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are abusing the teachers who have reached out to the instrument of civil disobedience, and believe me, Mr. Secretary, I also remember 2006, when Fidesz touched on the same instrument of civil disobedience, but that was perfectly all right then. Dear Secretary of State, My question, which I expect to answer, is to give students a modern education, to ensure that they can prepare for graduation, because by firing six teachers from one school, they have virtually made it impossible to prepare for graduation. I would also like to ask with respect that you plan to make further dismissals, to stop the continuous and pointless abusing of teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-05-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-180	Honourable Congressman, You can use a variety of words in Parliament, but we believe in negotiation. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] We've sat down with teachers' representatives over 14 times since the strike committee was formed. We just sat down five times in this cycle. We have launched a very broad consultation that no one has launched before us. 25,000 teachers returned their opinions in the first round, and, thank God, they grew up after that, and then 33,000 teachers sent their opinions in the second round. Now we're asking the parents. More than 52,000 parents have also sent their views, because we want to base our policy on what teachers really see, what parents see. Honourable Congressman, If you would support it, it would be a great honour not by 10 percent but by 21 percent next year, not by 10 percent after next year, but by 25 percent, and by 29 percent next year by teachers' wages. [[Antal Csárdi consults with Szabó Timea.]] I'd be honored if you'd listen. I will answer you, Your Honour, but if you are not interested, that is also an opportunity. About how teachers' opinions are taken into account, I suggest that you consult the shadow minister Arató, a former Secretary of State, who literally said: "The demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not dissuaded by the demonstration's original intention. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The man who just gave the demonstration the greatest applause, that's exactly what he said. Do you have any consistency, any posture? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-181	Congresswoman Boglárka Illés, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How long can the Mayor deny the existence of the Town Hall-gate? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the absence of Minister Balázs Fürjes appointed Deputy Minister, State Secretary. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you so much for accepting. Illés Boglárka, Member of Parliament, has the floor. [[Szabolcs Szabó to Dr. Balázs Fürjes: Now you will be pressed! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] We wait for order to be restored and then it can continue. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is important that we also talk about matters on which the left listens regularly. [[Eva Scars intervenes.]] or at least try to draw attention from this, despite the fact that we all experience it every day, we can now monitor it for more than three years in the city, exactly in the capital, and this is nothing more than the amok run of Gergely Christmas. I mean, it's all been here. There have been meaningless bike lanes, traffic jams, sheep eaters, stopping the shipments of waste, drastic increases in parking charges, and there are many more wrong choices, because there are things to be said. [[17.20]] Thanks to all this, the Mayor's popularity has fallen to the level of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Now the dollar left supporting him doesn't see the sequel in 2024. In addition to his failed actions and senseless decisions, he became known for his responsibility. Every time he got into an awkward situation, we remember he blamed others for it. We can now see the end of this, since in the last few days, the National Bureau of Investigation has questioned several suspects in the City Hall-gate case. The scandal broke out in early November 2021 when revealing audio materials and documents about the attempt to sell City Hall were released. Earlier, real estate transactions in the capital were also discovered; of course, Gergely Christmas claimed that he did not know anything about them, and he was not there. Dear Secretary of State, It was amusing to watch Gergely Christmas stumble for a while, but it is unacceptable for the mayor to pretend that nothing is happening, as if there were no corruption issues at City Hall. In light of this, I ask how much longer the mayor may deny the existence of City Hall-gate. [[Eva Scars intervenes.]] I asked Mr. Secretary, I expect an answer from him, not you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-05-183	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Dr. Balázs Fürjes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: You can do it!]]
u2022-12-05-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The City Hall-gate case will indeed be difficult to deny to Gergely Christmas, because his people have said very hard-pressed sentences about the operation of city hall real estate problems, and indeed, the police have also made three accusations about dealing with influence for 2-8 years. Something stinks, that's for sure. At the same time, I see a chance to find out that Gergely Christmas is also the main character in the left-wing dollar scandal, and it will be even more difficult to deny. The left-wing campaign received billions of HUF support from abroad. This was done by a man who is employed by the mayor's cabinet, whose employer is Gergely Christmas. Man of Gergely Christmas: Gergely Christmas gave instructions to Dávid Korányi [[Gergely Harvesto: Merry Christmas!]] And Christmas Korányi was obliged to tell me everything. So Gergely Christmas is the boss of the city councillor who arranged the alleged illegal American support for the left-wing campaign. For the campaign on the left, Gergely Christmas sent, gave, instructed the foreign exchange banker. Dávid Korányi, who, as a cashier, organized the transfer of American money to you, to the left, was in fact the contribution of Gergely Christmas to the left campaign, Gergely Christmas's contribution in kind, so that it would actually be an illegal financial contribution in dollars. The question arises: what is the role of Gergely Christmas, the cashier of the left-wing dollar scandal, and his real handler, in the alleged illegal foreign support of the dollar left? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-05-185	Congresswoman Elijah Boglarka has the floor, please. [[Gergely Harvester: Hard!]]
u2022-12-05-186	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-187	[[No sound, towards Gergely Arató:]] Congressman, your voice...
u2022-12-05-188	I'd go on because I can see the time going on. Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, I think that we cannot ignore, as the Secretary of State has pointed out, that not only is Gergely Christmas involved in this Town Hall-gate case, but there are many others besides him, including Gordon Bajnai, who has also been involved in suspicious transactions related to DataData, and therefore in his group of companies, it seems that he is involved, and I am not the one who claims it, but an investigation has been carried out against him because of suspicion of NAV budget fraud, and the police have ordered an investigation on suspicion of embezzlement and money laundering. It is typical of Gordon Bajnai that he also tries to defuse responsibility like Gergely Christmas. Instead of admitting it after the unveiling, he's gonna start a slanderous campaign and point it at someone else. [[Eve Scars: Is Simonka okay?]] I am very confident that the left will sooner or later take responsibility for its actions and the consequences, and instead of waiting for guidance from abroad, it will account for the voters and work for their authority. I trust that this will be the case in the future, and that the authorities will carry out the investigation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. A rare applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-12-05-189	Mr. Balázs Fürjes, Secretary of State, you may also have a rejoinder.
u2022-12-05-190	Thank you very much. Péter Márki-Zay, your candidate for Prime Minister, also said that Gergely Christmas's first round pre-election campaign cost about HUF 500 million. It is estimated that this is closer to HUF 1 billion, so one of the important issues of the dollar-left scandal is exactly how much money the Mayor of the Left, Gergely Christmas, spent on his left-wing primary campaign, and how much of it, how many dollars came from abroad. What did the foreign supporters ask Gergely Christmas in exchange for funding her campaign? [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Marine Le Pen!]] All the questions, not only the Town Hall-gate, but also the dollar scandal on the dollar left. Obviously, David Korányi's boss, his directing officer, cannot be excluded from his responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Eve Scars: Is that true of Simonka?]]
u2022-12-05-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what legal consequences can the Dollar Left have if the fact of illegal campaign funding is proved? It's an address. Fellow Members! Dear House, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[István Hollik nods.]] Thank you very much. Congressman István Hollik, please.
u2022-12-05-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The dollar left is badly exposed, this is the case, and not in itself by receiving support from abroad, but in about two or three days, their statements on this case will come to a close and find out that they are lies. So the dollar left, with his explanation, navigated itself into a forest of lies from which there is no way out, but from the statements made by Péter Márki-Zay and David Korányi, it appears that they also camped in the middle of the forest. At first, they said that their campaign funding was transparent, but it turned out to be as much as the propertyisation of Ferenc Gyurcsány. In the beginning, they were talking about a few hundred million forints, and then it turned out to be 1.8 billion forints, and now we know it's 3 billion forints. Then they also said that these billions were collected from microdonations and that only Hungarian people could donate, since they checked their identities. Now it turns out none of them are true. There are 11 donors, and they didn't ask for any data, there were no checks. When Gergely Karácsony's man, Dávid Korányi, found out that their claim was untenable, he decided that there were institutional donors here. Of course, he didn't mention the identity of these people. Of course, all of this is a consequence. The point of the case is that since the change of regime, Hungary has not had such harsh foreign influence [[Gergely Arató: György Soros!]] So it would not be exaggeration, for example, to change the name of Mr Gergely Arató's party to a dollar coalition and to combine the full dollar left. [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties. Gergely Harvester: Funny!]] But the question after all, Mr. Secretary of State, is what opportunities the current Hungarian State has to examine or prevent such foreign influence in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-05-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Minister Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I hear the dollar left had a lot of fun on your question. I'm not surprised, by the way, because 3 billion forints were amused in the parliamentary campaign. [[Gergely Arató: Comrade Virág, this is the verdict...]]
u2022-12-05-195	[[No sound, towards Gergely Arató:]] Congressman Harvester! [[Zsolt Gréczy: Prejudicál the Secretary of State!]]
u2022-12-05-196	I don't know how much fun that was. I believe that 3 billion forints were amused, this was seen in the election campaign, even because it was a very unsuccessful party, but it was very expensive for all of us. [[17 .30]] By the way, since the change of regime, all parties have observed that they have not accepted support from abroad. [[Interventions in opposition benches: Except Fidesz!]] Not only because the law says so, but because this was one of the main issues of Hungarian democracy, but because the parties do not allow themselves to be influenced from abroad. Otherwise, this is not only a question in Hungary, honourable Member, but also in 2019 the European Parliament adopted a resolution against foreign influence of elections. Of course, they didn't mean the dollar left, but we can agree with the principle, and the European Parliament also saw that there are countries, there are Member States where they influence elections from abroad, with foreign money. In fact, even in the United States of America, President Biden has declared an emergency against foreign influence. These examples show that the key issue in all democracies is that foreign instruments, campaign instruments, and money cannot influence an election. As far as the legal part is concerned, we will indeed find out later about what happened and whose responsibility it is. These cases are being investigated by the investigating authorities, and we'll see what happens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-197	Thank you very much. We have a one-minute rejoinder. Congressman István Hollik has the floor, please.
u2022-12-05-198	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The dollar left is using the instrument of bezzegpolitization: Finland, but Germany! So let us therefore make a thought experiment, honourable left-wing Members. What would happen in those countries that you always refer to as a model, if you found out in a country where foreign campaign funding is prohibited, that an election party received three times as much money from abroad as the maximum amount of state aid? And I think that's a rhetorical question, because you know what would happen in a country like this, what would happen in a country like Western Europe. That party on the right or left probably wouldn't survive the next day. So it seems that your bosses don't even allow you to cancel this money, because that's not why you paid that 3 billion forint, and it's obvious that after such a bust, it would be the right thing to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-199	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is noteworthy that every day lies are revealed in this case; how the dollar left lies in this case. [[Gergely Harvesto: Sure! Fidesz!]] They are constantly trying to reduce the importance of this entire foreign campaign funding, constantly trying to make it look like the Hungarian laws have been complied with, and constantly trying to claim that they did not actually finance the election campaign here, but only some kind of democracy activity and democracy cleansing activity. Well, this cannot happen in a normal democracy, so for once I must agree with the European Parliament's decision that it is unacceptable for them to intervene in the Hungarian elections from abroad with foreign funds. This must be blocked. We can't let that happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interventions in opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-05-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! It's 5:33 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questions. Now we move on to questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Kordás, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. How do you intend to comply with the employment guidelines of the European Council? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, instead of Minister Márton Nagy, who is competent and competent, Mr János Fónagy will answer your question. You have the floor, please.
u2022-12-05-202	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Member States are obliged to take into account the recently adopted employment guidelines of the European Council in their policies. They should promote the right to collective action and strengthen the role of the social partners through specific measures. They should support lifelong learning, ensure workers' rights and effective social protection. They should promote equal opportunities, social inclusion and the fight against poverty. This decision is a European alternative to the current livelihood crisis, which is also represented by Klára Dobrev's shadow government. The root of the livelihood crisis, in my opinion, is your illusion of a work-based society, that everyone should work, no matter what. But to make a living, you don't just need a job, you need a job that you can actually make a living with. You have made the country a assembly plant for Europe, condemning many Hungarian workers to trained work. The ten-year-old economy helped to cover up the crisis, the cheap, vulnerable workforce and the continuously weakened forints, but they did not prevent the decline of competitiveness and our downfall. This is exactly what we have had an insight into today's Economic Committee meeting from President György Matolcsy MNB about the economic policy you have been pursuing and what is the result of this. The shadow government sees a way out of improving competitiveness, training, health and high added value work for citizens. We would finally meet the accession requirements once again and invest European resources in education, health, research, innovation and the environment until the last euro. In the short term, budgeting and disciplined farming could prevent poverty. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you, Minister, how do you comply with the Council's decision and how do we get out of the damage you caused? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-05-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-204	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Your question about how we do it: in practice. In the front, knowing you, I'm sure you didn't intend to look down on the trained workers and the assemblers, because we both know that the tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people coming back to work have to walk a certain step. Please don't look down on these people or their jobs; they're needed. As for the crisis and poverty. I know we've said it many times, but that means we have to say it again, if there is already a shadow government, then to them that in 2010 there was almost 12 percent unemployment, now the minimum wage was raised to 3.5 HUF 23.5 thousand, today it is 200,000 forints. As far as technology and progress are concerned, Hungary is now at the forefront of the world's hightech. [[Deterioration in the benches of Momentum.]] Two international innovation rankings are rated among the best in Europe, even if this ranking is not appreciated by some of my fellow Members. According to the global innovation index (22), our country is fifth in the production of high-tech products; in Europe it can be compared with Germany and Denmark. We do not say that Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote that Hungary is leading by nose in front of Germany. And as for the livelihood crisis. Today, 4.7 million people are working on a significant average salary increase, and you were basically talking about unemployment and permanent poverty. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Will you make SZÉP cards available for the purchase of food? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-206	Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary of State! The brutal rise in overhead costs and food prices is putting domestic workers in an increasingly difficult position. Perhaps even worse than the damage caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we need immediate assistance. In the spring of 2021, MSZP suggested that it be possible to pass between the Széchenyi rest card, i.e. the sub-accounts of the SZÉP card, which was received as an out-of-wage allowance. [[17.40]] Our proposal was one of the few that even the government accepted. As a result, the funds that could be spent on culture and accommodation could also be used to buy hot food. The importance and necessity of this change is also indicated by the fact that there will be interoperability between sub-accounts in 2023. The MSZP proposal also included the possibility of using the card to buy cold food. This has also been accomplished, true, only for a few months. Unfortunately, a significant proportion of Hungarian workers have been re-established in the situation that, in addition to increased overhead bills, the financing of meals is already a problem; rather than cultural and holiday, people are increasingly concerned about how they produce lunch and basic food. So now is the time to take action again to alleviate the problems, for the livelihood crisis is nothing less now than during the epidemic. In fact, many people have to think about the order in which they pay for heating, meals, or medicines because of the removal of the former form of reduction. This is why it is necessary to allow for a more free use of the amounts left on SZÉP cards. In view of what has already been done, I ask you, you can also use the SZÉP cards to buy food. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-05-207	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer to your question from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-208	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The use of the SZÉP card catering subaccount for cold food was introduced to help families. This opportunity, as you mentioned, was granted by the Government for a period from 1 February to 1 July 22 by the fact that it was known from the date of introduction. The so-called tabs of the Széchenyi card, rest card, can be used without internal restrictions for accommodation, catering or other purposes. According to the data of the KSH, from 22 January to September domestic guests spent 25 percent more guest nights in accommodations, while foreigners spent 157 percent more nights in the same period of the previous year. So such a use of the card helped the Hungarian tourism sector in substance. I would remind Congresswoman that the sanctions policy in Brussels, which had failed to respond to the Russian-Ukrainian war, has unleashed energy and food prices, so we have introduced price-stops, food stop, fuel stop, interest-stops to help the population and businesses overcome the crisis caused by sanctions. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: That doesn't mean we can't do this.]] In the framework of the food price stop, we have now added eggs and table potatoes to the price of eight basic foods instead of the initial six until 31 December. This reduces inflation by about two percent, according to our calculations. Personally, I trust that you and your allies will finally stand up for the abolition of sanctions and peace, and then we will be able to split the costs further. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Endre Tóth, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: how many teachers are fired by the Minister of the Interior? It's an address. I would like to inform you that Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond. It is for Congressman Endre Tóth. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-210	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Be honest with us and tell us how many teachers are you planning to fire? Last week, eight excellent teachers were dismissed, and so a total of 13 teachers have fallen victim to the autocracy of the invisible police minister. All this in a situation where there has been a national shortage of teachers, and there is often no one applying for a job advertised. You still don't seem to understand: silence is not order. They still do not understand that it is not possible to do anything unpunished with education workers. They do not understand that a responsible minister does not fire teachers overnight simply because of their humiliating working conditions. And especially, he doesn't fire teachers at the time of advent, at the time of winter, when a livelihood crisis is unfolding. Do you think that's what your authority is about to fire teachers when they're under 16 grand? Are there that many of them? Who's gonna teach me tomorrow? In a false way, you're referring to the interests of the students. I ask you, where are the students' interests when they fire the only chemistry teacher in a school? Where are the interests of students when they fire the head of a senior class before graduation? And where are the interests of the students when they won't be able to replace the dismissed teachers for many months? With this step, the Fidesz government has once again declared that teachers, students and parents do not count on him at all, since they are not willing to spend money from national sources to raise the wages of teachers to stop leaving, even the teachers on the field are fired. This future-killing policy destroys Hungarian families. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State, how many other teachers are you going to fire? As long as there's not enough left to replace him? A total of 929 teachers from more than 93 schools are now using the instrument of civil disobedience. Will they all be fired? And the kids are gonna go home from school at 9:00 saying there's no teacher? Maybe you'll replace the fired teachers? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-05-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would ask you to once try to explain what I have quoted to you, the words of your former party president, his former candidate for Prime Minister, his former group leader, András Fekete-Győr, who said that we have an immeasurable number of schools and that they have a very poor quality. If you believe that there are enormous numbers of schools in Hungary, then how many schools does the Momentum consider to be closed? And how many of these teachers do you put on the street? You literally said that we have an immense amount of school. So how much do you think we need? Imre László was at least honest: DK would close 45% of hospitals. But what percentage of the Momentum would you close the schools? How many teachers would Momentum dismiss? Because if they shut down schools, they'll let teachers go. We know how much the left has closed during his administration and how many teachers he has dismissed, you know, 15,000. That's all the teachers on the left. You're throwing at this number that you think 16,000 teachers are missing. In 2011-12, 167 856 people worked in education, 165 787 in the 21-22 academic year. We know that in the meantime, the number of students has also decreased significantly, unfortunately, because of the declining population. There are two thousand differences between these two, and I'm telling you, the number of students has decreased. Where are you talking about 16,000? If you could help us with mathematics a little bit, honourable Member, and tell us that your sentence, your candidate for Prime Minister, your party president, is too many schools, how many school closures, how many educational gown discharges. And if you could just tell us where the 16 grand number came from for you, at least there would be a base that we could kick off, and it wouldn't be like that here on the educational debate day, when you guys were playing stadiums with Lőrinc Mészáros and vodafone, because that's all it was for you guys. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. Another proposal for a solution to save the post. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am not the man who merely criticizes, you know very well, I have offered a number of solutions and I have already done so to save the mail. [[Bence Rétvári: One was more lifelike than the other.]] At the same time, I see that it's just me or us, because the government keeps sweeping them. I asked primarily that the Gambling Company. help the mail in order to maintain it. You could, there'd be plenty of funding. They turned it down. I asked for legal protection for the mailboxes. All the pro-government representatives voted against in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I asked that if the State could no longer maintain it, it could not finance the loss-making state company, it would finance the municipalities, and then the municipalities would do so, because they would be very happy to participate in the reservation, but only a resource is needed for this. He's got deaf ears. Well, I'll make a fourth solution after the third. [[17.50]] This is nothing else, and it has already been rejected, and it has not been put on the agenda, but there is still room for us to make a budgetary amendment and to amend the budget for 2023. They say 20 billion forints that it would be so necessary to reopen and maintain the mail. I ask you, what is more important, the re-opening of propaganda or mail? The national consultation and the poster campaign covering the country cost approximately HUF 16-20 billion. It costs 20 billion, the mail costs 20 billion to decide this one question. If, by the way, this question had been included in the national consultation, I think they would have been given a clear answer as to what people would think about it. I'm not suggesting that they consult again for billions of dollars, God forbid. Simply accept, please, this proposal, put the budget amendment on the agenda and do everything together to save the mail. This is important to us and to the people, and believe me, please, Mr. Secretary of State. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If there's less propaganda, there'll be more mail. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-12-05-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-216	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It's not the first time you've brought this up. However, allow me to speak of you trying to protect a 150-something-year-old system. This post was not designed for the current population or for the current size of the country. You want to preserve a 150-year-old system. At present, Magyar Posta operates 2600 post offices, where some 1400-1500 post offices are considered desirable in European directives. You know the limits, you can't finance them, you can finance them for EUR 15 million a year as a public service provider, and you can fit this 1400-1500 post office. The public's demand for post has changed. You are right that there is a place where tradition and customs require that there is a post office in every small settlement, and it is indeed part of the old world image that you would like to preserve in the Hungarian countryside. My grandchildren, my adult grandchildren, have never been in the mail in their lives. My age still comes with the yellow check; yours is no longer yours. [[For interventions:]] But you may be, I'll allow it, but no more. [[Defiance.]] Please believe me, I do not dispute that you are motivated by an emotional line, but please believe that it is necessary to modernise, modernise and maintain that existing, very well-functioning system in the Hungarian countryside. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why is there no environmental impact assessment and social consultation on port building in Balatonföldvár? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-218	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The case of port building in Balatonföldvár has been going on for years. It is a recent development that, following the judgment of the Pécs General Court on 5 September this year, the Veszprém County Government Office has resumed the preliminary investigation procedure and concluded that the port to be established has no environmental impact and is therefore not subject to an environmental permit. I suppose you think everything is okay here, because the investor has the necessary permits, which, as usual, has been granted in accordance with the law. According to the government authorities, there is no significant environmental impact in the Natura 2000 area that thousands of cubic metres of concrete and stone are poured into the lake during the construction of a 311-metre pier and 225-metre pier. The Government Office and the Court agree that there is no need to carry out a detailed environmental impact assessment, as certainly social consultation would be. However, the population is bitterly protesting, because according to local construction regulations, changes to the function of the beach cannot be allowed. The investment supported by the municipality would cut the area of the beach straight in half. A port suitable for the reception of 175 ships would reduce access to water and make it impossible for thousands to relax on the shore. So this is another example of the unscrupulous installation of the Lake Balaton Beach near Fidesz. Meanwhile, it is estimated that within 10-15 years the water quality of Lake Balaton may deteriorate to such an extent that bathing in it will be impossible. It would be time to identify the terrible environmental damage and restore the lake's ecosystem instead of concrete. That is why I ask you why you really believe that pouring thousands of cubic meters of concrete into a lake does not have an environmental impact, and why there is no environmental impact assessment for this investment, and why there is no social consultation on port construction in Balatonföldvár. Thank you.
u2022-12-05-219	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, will answer your question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-220	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the beginning, I think it is important to point out that Hungary's Government is committed to preserving the natural values of the Lake Balaton, protecting green areas and providing natural and recreational water-related opportunities. The new Balaton Act, which entered into force on 15 March 2019, reflects the government's intention to protect the natural and built values of Lake Balaton with stricter regulations than before. I can provide you with the following information in the case at hand. The Veszprém County Government Office has conducted a preliminary investigation procedure. In the course of the investigation, the Authority concluded that the planned investment, subject to the conditions laid down in the Decision, did not constitute a significant use of the environment which would justify the implementation of the environmental impact assessment procedure. In its decision to close the procedure on 8 January 2021, the Authority pointed out that the decision to close the preliminary investigation procedure did not in itself give rise to the investment. In order to achieve the planned port, a water permit must also be obtained, and construction works should only start with the final water permit. The Smiling Association for Balatonföldvár challenged the decision and, as a second-rate defendant, the notary of the Balatonföldvár Common Municipality and, as a third-rate defendant, the Fejér County Disaster Protection Directorate also took part in legal proceedings. The Pécs General Court, as you mentioned, annulled the decision of the Government Office in its judgment of 5 September but did not find any deficiencies in the legality of the procedure and provided clear guidelines for the question to be examined in the new procedure. Done at November 11th. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In its new decision, it will take this on the basis of technical considerations, in the light of the relevant legislative environment, in a customer-friendly way that prioritises enforcement. I would be honored to have your attention and acceptance of my answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office a question:. The national consultation is worth all the money? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, will answer you. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor, please.
u2022-12-05-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The government has launched another national consultation on sanctions against Russia in Brussels. The sanctions convicted by the Hungarian Movement have so far been voted in order, and the consultation questionnaires have been served ten days after the adoption of the eighth sanction package. We are aware that there is a new vote on sanctions from time to time, but you have not asked for the opinion of the Hungarian people before this time. According to surveys, two thirds of respondents consider the consultation on sanctions to be useless. The previous 11 national consultations were not more successful, for example, as only 528,000 people participated in the national consultation last year on the opening up of the epidemic. On the other hand, national consultations consume a great deal of public money, and since 2010, their total cost, together with the current one, can reach HUF 55 billion, which is a huge amount of money. The opinion of the people is important, and the most important, but national consultations will actually benefit different companies instead of Hungarians. New Land Média Kft. has been on-going since 2015 with government communication tenders. and Lounge Designe Kft. wins it, so the public authorities are obliged to sign with them. [[18.00]] The tax results of the two companies in the last seven years amounted to HUF 34 billion, only the amount of contracts concluded with the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office reaches HUF 200 billion. By the way, I suggest that national consultation be carried out in a non-profit way, and then perhaps the sincere curiosity about people's opinions could be believable. I would like to ask your respectable answer as to why national consultations have not been launched on the withdrawal of the debt to millions or on the amendment of the Cata Act. Why has the advertising costs of national consultations increased several times since 2015? Don't you think that these huge funds could be of much more benefit to the interests of the Hungarian people? Please respond. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-12-05-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I have so much to argue with you about, if a million people in Hungary say their opinion on anything, I think it is not a little, but a lot. There are quite a few opposition parties that would be happy to have so many votes; I think that this is worth clarifying in the matter of scale. Why are these issues included in the consultation? Because they affect all of our lives, which does not rule out having them on other issues, or we are putting them on the agenda here, in front of the public of Parliament. In his written submission, he stated that the government had given up the regime and why this was not the case in the consultation. It's not like that. We have not given up, which can be seen from two things: on the one hand, there is a premium for the average consumption and, on the other hand, from the beginning, we have opposed sanctions which are fundamentally harmful to the European economy and the Hungarian economy. These are current issues, so it is very topical for as many Hungarians as possible to comment on this. For example, you've been walking the streets, you've decided on the oil sanctions, this is coming into effect now, and the consequences are visible: supply disruptions and expected further price increases. This isn't right. We were granted immunity from not being able to get supplies from Russia. So we have been exempted from transport restrictions, but the price effect will affect us very much if prices increase across Europe. Then they want to decide about the gas sanctions. They want to extend the sanctions to nuclear energy. I don't need to tell you how the Paks expansion or the current operation of the Paks nuclear power plant is affected. We do not expect you, as opposition parties, to support the government in everything, but in principle as a national party, I am asking you not to deny that sanctions policy has a grieving consequence. This needs to be changed, and it will not be possible to do so on its own, which is why discussions, negotiations and consultations are needed if necessary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-05-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Bernadett Bakos and Máté Kanász-Nagy, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the construction and transport miniszer a question:. When will the air-conditioning lease be introduced? It's an address. Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-226	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In the last 12 years, the government has been pursuing a misguided, car-oriented transport policy. It was too supportive of road transport, but it did not provide sufficient resources for Community transport. Instead of modernising railway lines, motorways were built, instead of an attractive Community transport tariff system, an official fuel price was introduced. At the same time, it is becoming increasingly obvious that the price cap does not work. Demand has increased by almost 50 percent compared to a year ago. MOL alone is unable to serve the needs, and it is not worth bringing fuel into the country. There is a shortage of supplies in 500 of the 2000 domestic filling stations for a longer or shorter period, and it is not even just about small wells. If the government had accepted LMP's proposal for a climate lease in the summer, the situation would not be as serious now. All public transport services in the country, which cost HUF 5 000 a month, would attract a lot of people from car to public transport. Since the energy use of Community transport is much more efficient, the demand for fuel would also be reduced, the deficit would be eliminated. László Palkovics said earlier that a €9 pass similar to a climate lease would be a huge success, and this could also be a huge success in Hungary, but the government has not done anything to introduce the climate lease. We would like to ask again where the introduction of the climate lease is, what decisions have been taken by the government so far. When will the climate lease be introduced in Hungary, and when will they support the transition to sustainable green Community transport? Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-12-05-228	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House of Representatives, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the question and for the opportunity to answer some questions in a few sentences for a few short seconds. But I would like to inform the Member and Parliament, even though I am not a new minister, I asked for an opportunity to be heard by the Economic Commission, where transport is present, so that we can have a meaningful and deeper dialogue on our transport policy objectives and their renewal, as your question cannot be answered in two minutes. I don't agree with you that we didn't spend significant amounts on rail transport. 1200 km of rail network has been renewed, and where renewals have taken place and modernisation has been carried out, passenger traffic fully demonstrates the correctness of the improvements. So it's not true that we didn't develop, we developed in our strength and our potential. As far as motorists are concerned, there is more of a car chase in Hungary at the level of regulation, no one has a preference or protection for motorists anywhere. I would also like their protection, because Hungary's geographical potential is such that there are no railways or there is not enough on the Vola, so every day you have to commute by car. I ask you not to pursue a policy that would punish motorists, because people in Hungary do not drive from a hobby, but from commuting, going to work and going to school as a necessity. As far as the lease is concerned, I would like to say that since 2012, there has been no increase in public transport charges for ten years. We haven't raised a price in ten years. There is no greater public transport aid in a country where inflation has been 20 percent in the last year. My second point is that the German air-conditioning lease has worked, it is not clear, because it has just been raised from EUR 9 to EUR 49. We do not need to set short- and medium-term climate and climate targets, but we need to address social problems tomorrow morning. Today, I ordered the MÁV to take over the administration and management of the MÁV to put a tariff system and a preferential system on the government's table. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] One moment of patience, Mr President, it may be useful for Parliament, which can be competitive even in the midst of changing fuel prices, and which will be able to bring the population into a tied path from the use of cars for social reasons. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-05-229	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Sándor Lezsák, representative of Fidesz, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister for Regional Development: what does the government do to water the sandback? It's an address. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, As a reminder, the sandback on the line of Budapest and Szeged is a rectangular area 120-150 km long and about 90 km wide, with an area of nearly 1.2 million hectares, of which almost 1 million ha is the area used for agriculture and forestry. Both groundwater and groundwater have been drastically reduced in recent decades. Over the last decades here in Parliament, with my fellow Members, we have sent the emergency signals over and over again, the proposals for a complex rural development and water supply programme. Two years ago, the National Water Directorate prepared a professional material for the water supply of the sandback. It is a good fact that the Government of Hungary has taken account of the relevant professional proposals and has allocated a total of HUF 6.2 billion at two paces to the preparation of the plans for improving and restoring the water management status of the Danube-Tisza public sandback, as well as for obtaining the necessary permits for the construction. Dear Minister, I'm asking you, how's the planning of the sandback's water supply program going? When can the construction work begin? What domestic and EU resources are available for achieving the objectives? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[18.10]]
u2022-12-05-231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to Minister Tibor Navracsics. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the sandback is one of the highlighted areas of the country which, unfortunately, has not been drawing attention to itself with the good news for decades now. At sandbacks, we can also experience the environmental devastating effects of desertification, climate change and generally unfavourable processes in the most common and direct way. The concept of national development and territorial development has already been noted in 2014, when it is essentially trying to address regional problems for the future by identifying three aspects, three areas of intervention, both through agriculture, by facilitating the development of agricultural production adapted to changed climatic conditions and the change of forms of farming, by water management, by addressing the water management problems of the sandbacks in a comprehensive way, and by helping farm farms to survive and produce them on the market. It is a complex development and conservation strategy, which is now being discussed with the county institutions in part. It was included in the regional development concept of Bács-Kiskun county, and in the climate strategies of Bács-Kiskun, Csongrád-Csanád and Pest the management of the problems of the sandback. At the same time, it is at least as important that we cooperate with the Danube-Tisza Public Sandback Development Council. Right now, the design is coming to an end. In the implementation of interventions, we want to use EU funds, on the one hand, TOP Plus in the period 21-27, in the area of urban development, public services, on the other hand, in the area of water management and rural development, trying to finance new solutions in the area of small settlements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-233	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Béla Mihálffy, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: How can the Government help people fleeing to Transcarpathia and Western Ukraine? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Messenger! I would like to inform you that the answer will be given to you by Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, State Secretary. Congressman Béla Mihalffy has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Russian-Ukrainian war has been going on for over nine months, and the fate of children and families is harder every day in Ukraine. In the last nine months, the war and all its horrors have become a tangible reality for millions. Since February 24, 2022, millions of people have been forced to leave their homes and seek refuge in Europe, but millions of people also live as refugees in Ukraine. The Russian attack on Ukraine has been clearly condemned from the outset by the Hungarian government, and the government's position has not changed, consistently held and maintained itself to not sending weapons to war, sending soldiers, and not releasing arms shipments in Hungary, but doing everything it can to help the people in distress. Speaking of President Katalin Novák, Hungary has always made it clear that help should be carried where it is needed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The greatest humanitarian action in the history of our country is currently taking place to help Ukrainian people both across borders and within borders. More than a million refugees have been admitted from the neighbouring country, and by now there are about 1300 children from Ukraine studying in kindergarten schools. We have already sent large quantities of food, industrial goods, bandages and pharmaceutical packages to help people trapped in Ukraine. Dear Secretary of State, Winter is coming, and this winter could bring with it a tragic, terrible, enormous humanitarian disaster, even greater than before. The difficulties ahead highlight the importance of achieving peace. Peace is the only solution to the difficulties and tragedies caused by war. However, as long as the war continues, it is our moral and legal duty to help Ukraine's refugees. I ask Mr. Secretary of State how the government can help people who have fled to Transcarpathia and Western Ukraine. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-12-05-235	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Levente Magyar, State Secretary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-236	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is involved in tackling the humanitarian crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, and we are doing intensive and continuous work. I will visit Transcarpathia the next day after tomorrow, and we will hand over a 100 million HUF donation, which will contain generators, directing them to Herson County. Hungary has adopted around one million Ukrainian refugees since the beginning of the war. As Mr President pointed out, a significant part of these are in Hungary. Hungarian representatives of the Ukrainian government themselves claim, through the embassy, that there are hundreds of thousands of people who are constantly in Hungary. As far as our concrete actions are concerned, it was announced a few days ago that the Hungarian government is ready to support Ukraine with a package of aid of tens of billions, with a grant of tens of billions, because it is in a fundamental Hungarian interest that the Ukrainian state should remain operational, not collapse Ukraine, as it could create an enormous humanitarian crisis, a significant part of which Hungary would have to bear with much more effort than it has been experienced so far. We have offered thousands of scholarships to Ukrainian higher education students, offered unlimited treatment for wounded soldiers and wounded children in Hungary, very serious work is being done within the defense to train Ukrainian medical staff who belong to the army, so they will be able to provide life-saving assistance directly to wounded soldiers. We have launched very serious reconstruction programs in the area of Kiev, Borogyanka, Bucsa, to rebuild public institutions, kindergartens and hospitals. In Galicia, on the other side of Transcarpathia and the Carpathians, aid organisations operating with the funding of the Hungarian state operate significant refugee capacities. We were able to send significant donations to Kharkov, Sumiba and other front lines. Overall, the Hungarian government supports Ukraine in the order of 10 billion dollars, and this amount will only increase in the following ways, partly in order to counter the humanitarian crisis and partly in order to prevent further disasters. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-237	Dear House, Fellow Members! It's 6:17 p.m., the questions are finished. We will now continue our work with debate, but in order to begin in calm conditions, we will have a two-minute technical break. (Recess: 18.18-18.20) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-12-05-238	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The debate on the Commission's report on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2021 follows. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/105 On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: No, thank you.]] You do not wish to, so I do not need to inform you that what you will consume from the 15-minute time frame, which you will be able to use for all 15 minutes to say the closing word. I would like to inform the House that the representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Culture. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which will be published on the two billboards. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that two-minute speeches are not possible. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I consider that the author of Lajos Szűcs, since there was no debate in substance, has no reason to close. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's sitting. The Commission's report on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2023 is now under discussion. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/1698 On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. So if there is a debate, you have 15 minutes of time to close. Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate and that the designated Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Thus, the author, Lajos Szűcs, does not need a closing statement. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our Wednesday meeting. We now have the XC of 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the implementation of the Act. The government referral is T/1877. The Commission's non-autonomous motions are available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a minority and EU agenda item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the opinion of the minority expressed will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-12-05-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. Dear fellow Members, We have a bill on the implementation of the budget for 2021, the general debate of which took place on 23 November. In addition to the Committee on Budgets, the draft law on closing accounts was also discussed by all the standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and conducted a detailed debate between 28 and 30 November. In accordance with custom, their opinion is given in my sermon. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Law, so the bill meets the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system, complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. In the opinions of the negotiating committees, I will not repeat the above sentences. What I'm gonna do is, if the committee didn't give a separate opinion, I'm just gonna tell them that they've established the right fit. The majority opinion of the Committee on Budgets. Unfortunately, even a significant part of the last year has been about the coronal virus epidemic, because even though there was a vaccine at the beginning of the year, we had to live with the restrictive measures in our everyday life for many months. Thus, the focus of the 2021 budget continued to be on the re-launching of the crisis control and the crisis of the Crown Virus, protecting jobs, family income security and protecting pensioners. 2021 was the first year when pensioners were first able to benefit from the 13th month pension. In the framework of the announced family and pension protection programme, a quarter of the 13th monthly pension previously taken by the Socialists was returned by the government. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In 2021, the Hungarian economy increased by 7.1 percent, the average gross earnings in the national economy increased by 8.7 percent, while household consumption improved by 4.2 percent. By the end of 2021, the number of employees increased to another peak, with nearly 4.7 million people working in Hungary. The Hungarian government has not proved for the first time that it can withstand various crises. The results of 2021 and the indicators listed above confirm that the Hungarian economy reached its pre-crisis level by the end of 2021. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In order to counterbalance the economic impact of the epidemic, 82 companies under the national export protection programme launched by the KKM received funding of nearly HUF 3 billion. The Sustainability Application Programme supported 72 projects in the field of the innovative environment industry, and 12 additional companies received support based on individual applications. In the first half of 2021, the restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 epidemic were still in place. Despite this, at 40 foreign representations, there were 60 scientific diplomacy programs and 59 representatives, 92 cultural programmes around the world, and the 26 cultural institutes organised 1989 programmes. The government has set up an investment fund, with the help of which there is an opportunity to make a high value investment at 16 stations. The amount of funds allocated from the investment fund exceeded HUF 73 billion. In Europe, Lendva, Košice, Warsaw and Rome, while Mexico City won support on the American continent. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. As early as 2021, Hungary's Government had a key objective of safe, sustainable and competitive energy production and distribution, as well as the development of saving energy use and the reduction of our country's energy dependency. In 2021, the government carried out research to assess and exploit mineral resources, inter alia, aimed at identifying the potential and potential of underground energy storage, establishing deep-geothermal investments for cogeneration of heat, electricity and electricity. Opinion of the Economic Committee. In 2021, some HUF 15 000 billion was developed in Hungary, as a result of which investment activity exceeded the performance of the previous year by 5.2 percent. [[18.30]] Households' investments were characterised by a growing desire to build in 2021, with nearly 30 thousand new building permits being issued. Home building processes are also expected to be dynamicd by the home creation programme, with government development worth nearly HUF 3200 billion in total in the economy, resulting in a nominally 10.9% increase in public investment in an annual comparison. As a result, the domestic state investment rate of 6.3 per cent in proportion to the national total product remains at the forefront of a European comparison. As I have already said, some of the committees have submitted opinions, the other part has not. The National Security Committee, the Defence Committee, the People's Welfare Committee, the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Committee on Justice have only established compliance with the laws of the bill. Establishment and opinion of the Committee on Agriculture. The year 2021 was eventful in all areas of life, so agriculture was no exception. We have to include the increasingly extreme weather in the extraordinary events of the last year, because it is enough to think about spring frosts or extreme heat that occurs in the summer. The fall in precipitation has decreased and drought periods have become longer. Hungarian farmers had to endure many of the challenges faced by agriculture, such as avian influenza and swine fever. They also had to cope with falling pig prices, extremely high feed prices, rising energy and input prices. It is therefore a great achievement that the sector has been able to ensure that our country's population is provided with good quality, safe food. While the performance of the Hungarian food industry showed a strong wave in 2020, in 2021 the performance of the food industry continued to increase in a balanced structure. The performance of most sectors exceeded the previous year. The growth engine was direct exports in 2021, but domestic sales also increased. The recovery in domestic sales was mainly driven by the increase in real wages and employment. The total sales of the food industry were close to HUF 4500 billion in 2021, which represents an increase of 8.9 percent. Overall, almost all of the agriculture has done well despite the extraordinary challenges. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. According to the practice of the last few years, we can find resources earmarked for national policy in the budget of the last year. To a large extent, the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office for National Policy manages the appropriations allocated to these tasks. The Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, the cross-border reconstruction programme, national policy activities and support for Hungarians across the border continued. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is also responsible for a number of cross-border programmes. The Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme and the Diaspora scholarship programme were also covered, and continued in the year 2021 in Vojvodina, Transylvania, Transylvania, Upper Hungary, Dravag and Mura region. Small, medium-sized and large-scale applications were announced under the programmes in agriculture, business development, support for start-up entrepreneurs, house purchase, tourism, land purchase, production of land ownership documents and accommodation development categories. The budget of 2021 provided a total of HUF 18 billion in support for this purpose. Opinion of the Committee on Enterprise Development. Hungary's budget for 2021 focused on the control of the epidemic. In addition, the focus was on re-launching the situation of the corona virus epidemic, protecting jobs and ensuring the income security of families. It was a priority that the Hungarian economy should be able to return to the former, outstanding growth path as soon as possible. This was the goal of Hungary's biggest economic protection programme. The budget was based on two pillars. One of the pillars was the Economic Restart Fund, which provided cover for priority developments, investments and measures to promote employment. The other pillar of the budget was the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund, which included the resources needed to protect against the epidemic and to run the health care system, worth some HUF 3000 billion. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. Last year was also determined by the management of the Covid-19 epidemic and the re-launch of the economy. The exemption from the Maastricht criterion on budget deficits was made possible by the provisions of EU rules and of the special legal order. The government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law, which provides for a reduction in public debt. As regards EU grants, a significant payment of HUF 1552 billion was made to beneficiaries last year, through the budget. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, I would also ask this House and my fellow Members, on the basis of the summary opinions that have been delivered, to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-240	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. Minority opinions will now be presented in a 30-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Vajda.
u2022-12-05-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and honourable Secretary of State, As the opposition president of the Committee on Budgets, it is my job, which I have now learned by far, that I am going to give you minority opinions. In our committee, we have three minority opinions in writing, and I will read them to you, first ours, the MSZP, second, a little longer, and thirdly I will read to you the Commission's minority opinion of the LMP Group. First, then, I would like to give you the minority opinion of the MSZP Group for information. XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/1877. It is clear from the bill No 1 that in 2021, the budget continued to spend money, which was not transparent in previous years, as amended by more than a hundred government decisions, thanks to which the Hungarian budget has been awarded one of the worst ratings by organisations comparing the budgets of the EU Member States for years. Of course, this cannot be overlooked from the fact that the governing parties permanently provide the government with the possibility of emergency governance, i.e. that they can move hundreds of billions from one line to the next not only in one night, but they can change the letter of the budget as they please. In the light of the expenditure structure of the 2021 budget, it is clear that the rates that have been known for years remain, the share of expenditure on public functions within the public sector's role amounted to 19.8 per cent, just as in 2020, i.e. the State did not want to save anything on its own operation. For welfare functions, 54.1 percent of public finances were spent in 2020; this slightly changed in 2021; 54,6 percent was achieved, including 10.9 percent of expenditure on educational activities and services after 10.8 in 2019 and 10.3 percent in 2020. Thus, the proportion of resources spent on education remained persistently low, and no more substantial expenditure was spent on this area. In health care, public expenditure on the provision of benefits and the functioning of institutions increased last year after many years in response to the Covid epidemic and the increase in medical wages, representing 11.7 per cent in 2020 after 9.1 per cent in 2019. However, it is interesting to see a decrease again in 2021, since only 11 percent of the budget has been spent on a thousand-scarred area. [[18.40]] The amount spent on social security and welfare functions accounted for only 26.7 percent of the expenditure, which was a slight improvement from 2020; then it spent 24.8 percent of the budget for this purpose, although in 2018, it was even more than that, 28,5 percent. An interesting item is the rate of pension payments, which is significantly below the approved level of the budget by several percentage points. Overall, economic functions accounted for 19.3 percent of expenditure after 20.3 percent in 2020, which, in line with the trend of previous years, is around 20 percent. Government debt management expenditure accounted for 6.1 percent of total expenditure, which is worse than the 2019 fact, which was 5.3 percent, and also for 2020 which paid 5.5 percent for this purpose. This is, therefore, a tendency that has been deteriorating for years, and, on the basis of the energy crisis, 2022 does not hold much good for the debt service. The 2021 budget collected an unprecedented amount of tax from Hungarian families and businesses. This is demonstrated by the fact that only the general sales tax and personal income tax generated HUF 580 billion more than was planned. However, the additional revenues were spent for such highly questionable purposes as government propaganda, prestige investments, Chinese credit, meaningless Budapest-Belgrád railway, and the Liget project was not supported by public funds. This was done in the year of economic difficulties after the Covid epidemic, instead of supporting the loss of their jobs by extending the job search support or by taking over the SME sector's start-up costs. Because of this failure and obviously the energy crisis, there has never been as few shops, shops, restaurants open in Hungary as there are today. Anyone who has not yet been killed by the Covid epidemic and the lack of outstanding state aid, has been sent to the floor by government-led utilities. In view of this, the MSZP does not support the adoption of the closure accounts for 2021. Secondly, with the permission of Mr President, I will give the minority opinion of the member of the Committee belonging to the Jobbik Group, which is a little bit more. With regard to the implementation of the 2021 budget, it is sad that the government ate part of the Hungarian future. Although 2600 billion forints more revenue than expected, the overspend of 4700 billion has put the budget in an unsustainable position. There is much talk about money coming from the EU. In the period under investigation, some 1,200 billion dollars came to Hungary in this way; Hungary's deposit amounted to approximately HUF 600 billion. With regard to the difference between the two and their spending, we believe that the criticisms that highlight the flow of corruption through the channels and the often shockingly inefficient use are justified. Despite the sound of national rhetoric, the situation has not changed at all, however, that our country has become a hunting ground for globalist industrial and financial powers that often ignore the creation of the natural environment and the protection of traditional social values. Multi-enterprises, to which the government offers strategic partnerships, unlike Hungarian workers, continue to untaxate the extra profit collected. Non-refundable grants have a record level, and unlike them, the Hungarian SME sector cannot even dream of such privileged treatment. While more than HUF 360 billion of VAT revenue was realised in 2021, the amount of personal income tax increased by 170 billion compared to the appropriation. How vulnerable domestic players are is well perceived by the transaction fee case, as this burden has been passed on to customers to the last penny by the banks. With the impertinent, completely open transfer, financial institutions pulled some HUF 200 billion out of the pockets of Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families. The government has made a pact with the banks, representing the interests of these and the multinationals instead of representing national interests. This is supported by the use of resources from the Economic Restart Fund, which is a rather unclear category. Although the government spent hundreds of billion forints more than originally separated, Covid caused domestic companies and workers to be in trouble. In the light of our extremely poor public health and mortality indicators, the data pair, which shows 5 percent inflation last year and only 0.4 percent increase in resources for health care, is more talkable than anything else. This supply system also moans under the burden of convenient, permanent saving. And if you look at the fact that an average Hungarian man can expect 11 years less in health than a Swedish for example, then our criticism is absolutely justified. By looking at the lines of the closing account, we can find many false numbers here too. The programme, which we consider to be a good initiative, costs HUF 300 billion, with which there is no problem. However, even more so, this item is classified as family support, which will eventually result in a broken final number that is not entirely true. And the fact that the family tax reduction decreased by HUF 17 billion compared to the previous year should remind us all of the upcoming population disaster. Unfortunately, unlike the government's success propaganda, the demographic shift did not occur, the family tax relief mass used did not fall by accident. The reason for this is that there are fewer and fewer children to be born. Government P.R. doesn't fit in by admitting that it's becoming increasingly inevitable for a population failure to occur. Our society is getting very old. The ageing index, i.e. the ratio of our countrymen over 65 to those under 14 years of age, is above 140 percent, and as a result of population loss, it becomes more and more certain that in half a century, 6.5 million people will be in our country. This problem, which has been projected, is not mentioned in the material, even though the demographic bomb is ticking louder and louder. Obviously, it didn't just start, because since 1958, except for four short years, we haven't been able to reproduce ourselves. So it belongs to the truth that the government didn't cause the problem, but it was this government that missed the historic opportunity to use the popular generation of Ratko-grandsons to translate meaningfully on the population agony. There's more to it than that. As a conservative party, Jobbik does not prefer aid benefits on the subject. We can agree with the system of family tax incentives, but many families cannot realize this because of the miserable domestic wages. The government allowed the value of the family allowance to be affected, so we raised the family card proposal to compensate for it. The increased share of the doubled family allowance could be used in this way for basic foods, articles for child rearing and the financing of such services. One of the foundations for preventing demographic collapse could have been the launch of a comprehensive public housing programme. After the government kicked out the state leg of housing savings, this could have helped alleviate the problems in the area. Although a new construction was promised, the improved LTP and housing savings facility did not become anything, and the result is painfully tangible: behind-the-back condo building, low-volume housing construction, emigration due to difficulties in creating homes. The number of building permits issued and not the number of new apartments actually built in the year concerned were 30 thousand, which means that 200 years is needed to replace the domestic 4.5 million housing stock. Meanwhile, it is a strange anomaly that the government cannot do, and it may not want to do anything, that 550 thousand flats are empty. On Jobbik's part, we do not see the faintest government signal that this issue is being dealt with constructively, even though these buildings could have been excellent subjects for a public rental program. So, in our opinion, housing and real estate policies are not working. Moreover, during previous cycles, domestic building material production capacity was allowed to degrade, and since then no effective steps have been taken to recover any of this, while the increase in prices in this area is brutal because of long supply chains in foreign hands. [[18.50]] In relation to our population problems, we also need to talk about pensioners and the parental support system that Jobbik has put forward. Significantly higher income would give the government the opportunity to deal with our proposal that the ten per cent of the paid-up land be freed up by workers' citizens. From this amount, parents could be supported, which, in our view, would be a symbolic gesture of solidarity between generations, although this would be a lower item in terms of overall volume than the additional revenue that the government had not expected but realised. In 2021 we see HUF 5400 billion in VAT revenue. This budget revenue line will be at least HUF 7000 billion at the next closing date. Jobbik considers it an incorrect step by the government, a betrayal of the Hungarian people, that the surplus of VAT collected because of higher inflation and higher prices is absorbed by the budget. In our view, this extra profit generated by the crisis should be left with families. The reduction of VAT on basic foods and articles for child rearing could be financed from these sources. Although the statistics published by the government and the HCSO are about relatively high average wages, NAV data refer to a gross average salary of HUF 350 thousand. With such a low monthly income level, it is quite obvious how relevant Jobbik would be to the measures taken. Ceterum censeo: we strongly recommend that the current government be on the side of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, against the multinationals, banks and its own oligarchs. So far, the minority opinion of Jobbik has been held, on the basis of which Jobbik has also, I believe, indicated that they do not support the closing account. Finally, I will read to you the minority opinion of the member of the Committee belonging to the LMP Group: The 2021 closure report is evidence that Fidesz has wasted the last 12 years, including 2021, and wasted our future. As a result, our economy and society are now facing the crises that are coming together in a very vulnerable way. It is also evidence that if the criticisms and amendments of the LMP were adopted earlier, but at least in 2020 when the budget was voted, then today the country, the economy, public services and the environment would be in a much better position than they are now. In the spring of 2020, we said that the 2021 budget should have protected the basic systems that sustain our lives and society. Compared to this, it did not include a plan to help the economy, especially small businesses, but only support the multinationals and friendly hotels; it did not care about the climate crisis, the ecological crisis and the social crisis that was underway from the emerging economic crisis and the epidemic. With subsequent budget changes, he tried to cover them by spending for election purposes without real changes, but this, as it has now turned out, was in vain, with high inflation, the deep crisis in public services, including the energy sector, and the collapse in some places. The LMP also suggested that the budget be built on four main principles. 1. Creating crisis-resistant green jobs. 2. Preparing for water scarcity, fighting drought, adapting to climate change. 3. Strengthening the social and health sector and preventing the social crisis. Finally, 4. a fairer distribution of resources and assets through the introduction of progressive income tax and wealth tax, a higher tax on profits. If our amendments were to be adopted, energy supply, the social sector, health and education would not be in such a deep crisis today; drought would not hit half the country with this force, we would not have to cut our forests and rich people and companies would make a much greater contribution to public spending. The closing accounts are, by the way, almost invaluable from a budgetary professional point of view. Continuing and making the Fidesz tradition worse, even in a critically hectic period, they insisted on the adoption of the budget in the spring, when the Covid epidemic caused the processes to be completely unpredictable. Not only does this bring stability into the budget, but it creates enormous uncertainty. Accordingly, economic growth was 7.1 per cent instead of 4.8 per cent; inflation was 5.1 per cent instead of 3 per cent. Accordingly, the expenditure side of the budget became 27 per cent larger than the planned one; the revenue and deficit differed by 14 per cent and 220 per cent from the original plan. The lack of impact of Parliament's influence on budgetary policy increases the weightlessness of the budget law and closing accounts. It contains opaque, untraceable, often humiliatingly oversized items. To date, we do not know what the economic security fund, which was established in spring 2020, has made up its resources, precisely what has been transferred from the previous usual budget lines to the label "Economic Protection" to show a false thousand billion-dollar cost of economic protection. Besides, there's been regulation governance for three years, which allows you to rewrite, redeploy anything at any time, whether not in public, with internal decisions. For example, they can spend 51 billion instead of 24 for pure Fidesz propaganda with government money and hundreds and thousands of billions for unclear purposes in an unclear way. On this basis, LMP rejects the discharge law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I told you, the minority opinions of the MSZP, Jobbik and LMP, which do not support the acceptance of the closing account. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-242	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Vajda. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if he would like to speak now. [[Péter Benő Banai: At the end.]] Later? Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The statement by a representative of nationality invited by a committee is not forthcoming because he has withdrawn it. Representatives' speeches will follow if there is a need for this, and the name will appear on the screen. [[No one's reporting.]] There's no contact. The debate is therefore closed. In fact, the debate was pro-government and opposition. You have the floor, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő.
u2022-12-05-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I promise you that I will try not to abuse your patience for a long time, but allow me to respond to what has been said at the end of the closure debate. I think that the most important issue in the implementation of a budget is whether or not it has achieved the main economic policy objectives set at the time of adoption of the budget. I think that the 2021 final report is about the fact that after the Covid crisis we managed to achieve and even exceed the performance achieved by Hungary at the end of 2019. According to the closing accounts, last year there was a 7.1 percent economic growth, coupled with a high number of employees, 4.7 million workers. I think it is very important that the high employment figure also meant real wage growth at national level. It was said in today's debate that inflation was 5.2 percent, the average gross earnings in the national economy increased by 8.7 percent. The closing proposal before you is that we have achieved these real economic results by supporting fiscal policy. As a result, the general government deficit was 7.1 per cent in proportion to GDP, but due to the high growth, the debt ratio had already fallen substantially by the end of 2021 compared to the end-2020 level, to a greater extent than the EU average, and as a result, our debt ratio is, as a consequence, still lower than the average level of the European Union. About the criticisms of closing accounts. President Zoltán Vajda, presenting the opinions of the MSZP and the LMP, spoke about an opaque budget. [[19.00]] First of all, under the Fundamental Law, the government is obliged to implement the budget within the limits set by the Parliament. This implementation was verified by the State Audit Office and the President of the Court of Auditors in his expose, as well as in the document issued by the Court of Auditors, which stated that the government had implemented the budget within the framework of the law. As regards amending the budget, there is no doubt that the government has the power to carry out transfers between reserve appropriations or between certain other appropriations, to use reserves, but I consider it important that the budget initially adopted has been amended by the Parliament. If I only look at the deficit level, the 7.1 percent deficit reported by the closing report was within the 7.5 percent deficit level set by the Parliament. As regards the EU comparison, I do not know a document issued by a European institution that would assess the transparency of Member States' budgets. President Zoltán Vajda referred to the detection of an international organisation which does not include all the EU countries, in which Germany's budget is sometimes behind the budgets of a number of Black-African countries, and which, on the basis of subjective opinions, is drawn up on the basis of the opinion of certain non-profit organisations operating in some countries, which are non-profit organisations and non-governmental organisations, I think that it is enough to question the organisation assessing data in Hungary. As far as content matters are concerned, it has been said that, according to the closing accounts, the operating expenditure of the State has not fallen compared to 2020. I think it is very important that, if the 2021 budget included responses to the Covid crisis and implementation reports on this, it should be noted that in response to the Covid epidemic, the State reduced operating expenditure for all public institutions. It's about the expenses in rem. So I repeat now that, in terms of the functioning of the State, the expenditure in rem fell in 2020 and did not increase in 2021. At the same time, wages have increased in the public sector and in many areas, which is what I call to the attention of Mr Zoltán Vajda, President. Again, let me quote the closing report: wages in the public sector increased by 9.5 percent. This included, for example, the payment of an extra HUF 300 billion on wages for healthcare workers. I will therefore move on to the health sphere mentioned by the Member, Mr President. We can see a HUF 100 billion surplus in primary care based on the closing account, and some HUF 200 billion in inpatient and outpatient care as a cost to doctors for raising their wages. The expenditure in the health sector increased in 2021 according to the bill before you. It was an area where there was a reduction, these are public health expenditure, as most of the costs of disease control were incurred in 2020. The instruments we purchased in 2020 were not to be purchased again in 2021, thank God. This is why there is a reduction in expenditure in one area within the health sector. The welfare expenditure and pensions have also been mentioned. It is also important that the accounts report that the real value of pensions was preserved, as the government undertook in 2010 and that all pensioners received a pension premium of HUF 80,000 thanks to economic growth, and that the first instalment of the 13th month pension was started. There have been criticisms of the revenue side of the budget. I consider it a factual finding, and it is not a criticism, that there has been an excess income from personal income tax or VAT. I don't remember any opposition comments in the 2021 budget that said that economic growth would be much better, and that more revenue would have to be expected. I consider the criticisms more acknowledgment, because we all know that in 2021 there were no tax increases, and tax reductions were all the more. At the same time, we can see the surpluses mentioned by President Zoltán Vajda, so that the surplus revenue is due to higher employment, real wages, and higher income also comes from consumption surpluses. Criticism has hit the government that it supports the multinationals too much. I'm sorry it was only said that certain companies pay little tax. Undoubtedly, whoever invests in Hungary, whatever owns it, can apply various tax incentives. It has not been said that if we look at the corporate tax estimate, we can report a significant surplus. Forint 447 bn was the amended legislative appropriation, and the completion is HUF 558 bn, so we can expect a surplus of more than HUF 100 bn. In view of this, I think it is worth explaining the advantages granted by the government and how these benefits were compared to the revenue figures originally planned. As regards demographic measures, I thank you for bringing this up today, because since 2010, the government's clear priority has been to provide financial support for the birth of the desired children. The decision is, of course, for families, but I think it is important that the amounts of family support have increased year after year. If we take the 13th month pension amount out of these family allowances or take out the costs under the 40" measure for women, we are still faced with high numbers at European level, and indeed these figures have achieved the result that they have contributed to the increase in fertility rates from 1.1 to 1.5. I do not agree with the comments made by the government over the last 12 years. It is true that we are still a long way from level 2.1, but I draw attention to the fact that in 2011, during the excessive deficit procedure, during the agreement on the IMF credit agreement, the majority of the government and Parliament started the programme for family benefits that showed an increase in demographic expenditure. As far as the Ratkó grandchildren are concerned, I draw attention to the fact that 1975 was the peak year, so in 2015 the most populous age group was 35 years old. I think that, if Mr Zoltán Vajda or Jobbik are critical in this regard, it is perhaps worth speaking to the representatives of the left-wing factions. Summa summarum, I agree with the critical comments that we still have a number of tasks, whether we are talking about the utilisation of public expenditure, whether it is a demographic turnaround, but I think that the 2021 final report shows that economic policy, which has been represented since 2010, can be taken on board overall in terms of the main figures and results. The result is that we managed to keep the number of employees at a higher level; the result is that after 2020, there was real wage growth, and the result is that we were able to reduce the level of debt by 2021. We have a task in all areas, including fiscal policy in terms of lower deficits and lower public debt, but I think that in a real and European comparison, the 2021 discharge shows a positive picture. I thank the Parliament for its work and I warmly recommend to the honourable Members the adoption of the draft closing act. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-05-244	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Next up is the 2013 CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/2030. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee. [[19.10]]
u2022-12-05-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 2 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. T/2030 amending Act T/2030 Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is to provide the necessary legal conditions for the task of the monetary authority and to ensure that the central bank has sufficient capital, which also reduces budgetary risks; and thirdly to lay down rules on dividend payments. Based on the Central Bank Act of the Hungarian National Bank, the primary objective and mission of the MNB is to achieve and maintain price stability. In practice, this can also be achieved within the framework of an internationally recognised, proven and widely used inflation-following monetary policy. The aim of the bill was to be modern and even innovative in its time, but it is necessary to modernise the slowly ten years of regulation and to adapt the experience of financial and economic turbulence that has taken place since then to the domestic monetary policy framework. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative amendment therefore includes the provision of the necessary legal conditions for the fulfilment of the monetary authority's tasks, the modernisation of early-forward debt limits and the replacement of income-related debt limits, the provision of adequate capital for the central bank, which also reduces budgetary risks, and the setting of rules on dividend payments at a legal level. For example, the linking of debt brake rules to income means modernisation, which, while safeguarding financial stability, allows for a more lively but still secure lending practice, which is expected to have a positive impact on economic performance and on domestic lending. I believe that the regulation of central bank capital indicators and the establishment of the rules for the allocation of results are further steps in terms of both the functioning of the Hungarian National Bank and the security, predictability and transparency of the Hungarian budget and financial processes. In the light of what has been said, the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-246	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, After the author indicated that he wished to speak later, the designated Economic Committee did not put forward a rapporteur, and no one spoke, and so I give the floor to Mr Tibor Tóth, State Secretary.
u2022-12-05-247	Mr President, Dear Parliament, According to the National Bank of Hungary's 2013 Central Bank Act, the primary objective and mission of the Hungarian National Bank is to achieve and maintain price stability. In practice, this is done within the framework of a well-established and widely used monetary policy that is recognised at international level. The further mandate of the central bank is to support the government's economic policy by the monetary policy instruments at its disposal without compromising its primary objective. In the last ten years, the Hungarian National Bank has introduced a number of innovative instruments, launched several programmes, and significantly increased domestic gold reserves, by reforming the monetary policy toolbox of the Union. As a central bank, the MNB's main task is to maintain price stability, ensure the stability of the financial system and manage foreign reserves as monetary policy. In addition, the central bank is a special organisation whose independence is not only a professional requirement but also a common interest. Thus, the MNB operates within the framework of the law, along the objectives and tasks set out there, but independently of the government. Dear Parliament, In the current economic situation, it is of particular importance that central banks, including the MNB, continue to operate smoothly while ensuring maximum financial independence. To this end, the Government has initiated an amendment to the law governing the operation of the MNB, in consultation with the Hungarian National Bank and the European Central Bank. The professional validity and transparency of the process are guaranteed by social consultation, in addition to multiple consultations with the relevant organisations. It is worth mentioning that, for example, the importance of ensuring the MNB's capital position was highlighted in the opinion of the European Central Bank. According to the ECB's indication, the current capital replacement and reimbursement rule may require greater budgetary margins regardless of the actual needs of the central bank. Accordingly, the planned amendments to the Act on the National Bank of Hungary ensure that the MNB is properly capitalised and financially independent, in addition to making the proposal more predictable the budgetary implications of the operation of the MNB. On the other hand, the draft also gives greater room for manoeuvre in the medium term by requiring the budget to reimburse the difference, not in one amount, but in five years, if equity were to fall below the level of subscribed capital. In the context of the current crisis of sanctions, the proposal is particularly appreciated, while making an outstanding step forward in budget planning, increasing the scope for economic policy to deal with unexpected events. In addition, it moves forward without compromising the MNB's operating conditions at all. Dear House, The amendment of the MNB's rules on dividend payments is also a key part of the package of proposals. At present, dividend payments can be decided by the Board of Directors of the Central Bank on the basis of individual consideration. Subsequently, according to the new rules, half of the profits would automatically be paid to the owner State, guaranteeing a predictable cash flow to the budget. Honourable Members, In addition to the above, the majority of the proposed amendments are technical provisions, which provide a legal basis for the current MNB exercise, or clarification. The proposal can address a number of anomalies, bearing in mind the convergence of provisions. Among other things, the amendment covers the provision of cash infrastructure, but also a number of monetary and financial supervision tasks. That is to say, the proposal clarifies, inter alia, the procedures for the recovery of public authorities, market surveillance and claims, as well as the way in which statistical, financial and oversight tasks are carried out. Thus, among other things, the regulatory and regulatory tasks and powers of the MNB will be extended by setting up the infrastructure network necessary to carry out cash flows. To highlight only a few of the elements of the amendments: the definition of the exercise of the powers of the authorities involves a more precise distinction between the tasks of the MNB's oversight and supervision tasks than is currently the case. In the case of the Central Value Reserve, securities settlement and settlement institution, the overall supervisory review cycle shall be modified, instead of one, every two years. As a CSD institution is subject to EU legislation in addition to its home country, the burden of a full annual review is unjustified. The ECB expressed its positive views on the measure in its opinion. In the investment fund management sector, it is also appropriate to rationalise the cycle time for comprehensive investigations. This leaves the three-year period for fund managers with public funds available to small investors. However, in view of the lower risk, the five-year cycle is sufficient instead of a three-year cycle for private funds with a narrow interest. In addition, it was necessary to clarify the tasks of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank as defined by law with regard to money laundering supervision. Due to the nature of the task, the central bank is currently unable to launch a group inquiry against the institutions supervised in this round, but this is necessary in practice. Honourable Members, A number of forward-looking measures are also included for the central bank's market surveillance procedures. Thus, the MNB will help to perform its market cleaning role more effectively if the MNB does not always have to carry out market surveillance procedures as part of its ongoing surveillance activities. [[19.20]] Due to the expected rising number of cases and the complexity of the procedures, it is appropriate to extend the deadline for certain market surveillance procedures. At present, the time limit for the market surveillance procedure in the context of short selling rules and credit default swaps is too short. To sum up, therefore, the proposal ensures that the procedures are implemented in an appropriate and at the same time controlled manner. Honourable Members, As is known, the tasks of the central bank include statistical tasks of international importance. Accordingly, the draft also clarifies the exercise of the rights relating to personal data processed for statistical purposes by the Hungarian National Bank, taking into account domestic and EU data protection standards. The amendment aims to allow the collection and receipt by the MNB of data that are considered personal data in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation or, more commonly, GDPR. The tasks of improving the stability of the financial sector are also an important part of the presentation. In these cases, the MNB's debt-brake-like assets would be expanded by introducing income-related debt limits. In international practice, two of the three instruments are typically used at the same time. With the Hungarian proposal, Hungary would raise its lending rules to an even more secure level. In other words, Hungary is a pioneer in protecting families and individuals from the dangers of overindebtedness. The ECB considers that the introduction of income-related debt limits is justified, in line with the proposal of the European Systemic Risk Board. As regards the tasks of issuing banknotes and coins, the use of coins which are not intended for daily circulation has sometimes been a problem for payments with them. Therefore, by supplementing the Central Bank Act, it will no longer be compulsory to accept commemorative coins in the course of payment. Paying with a commemorative coin is unfortunate, in some situations it may carry problems, misunderstandings, and may interfere with cash flow. In addition, it is important to set up the cash infrastructure network and define its expected operational features, as Hungarian people insist on this payment method. The ECB also welcomes the promotion of cash supply and the continuity and security of Hungarian society's access to cash. Dear House, Nor is it less important to make the central bank's relations with auditors more effective. To this end, it is necessary to allow the audit authority, the auditor of the financial institution and the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors to treat the confidentiality rules thematically and to allow the transfer of secrets under the MNB Act. The auditor of the financial institution has a protective function and the effectiveness of his work can be enhanced through the proposed amendments. It is important to emphasise once again that the proposals contain amendments agreed with the experts of the Hungarian National Bank, taking into account the experience of the monetary authority. Dear Parliament, The Act on the National Bank of Hungary was passed by the National Assembly almost ten years ago. This is a considerable time in itself, which has brought new challenges in addition to the accumulated experience and good practices. Taking into account the changed circumstances in the meantime, areas that need to be amended or clarified or, in some cases, outdated have naturally been outlined. In view of this, the aim of the proposal is to facilitate the adaptation of the Hungarian National Bank to the changing environment by fine-tuning the legislation and ensuring appropriate permissions in supervisory activities. Accordingly, this amendment contains mainly efficiency-enhancing amendments. The Government therefore wishes to support the broadening of the fiscal space in order to take desirable economic policy steps and the proper and effective provision of tasks by the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-05-248	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Tóth. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. Government referral T/1788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, and I will therefore give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-12-05-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 24 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1788 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, the bill we are discussing clarifies the regulatory elements of our country's new defence and security system, and on the other, it contains the amendments necessary for the re-introduction of the name Honvéd Vezérkar. In addition to these main topics, there are also a number of minor technical and legal harmonisation clarifications in the proposal, which have already been discussed in previous debates. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we tabled a relatively extensive amendment to the bill, which complements the original proposal on a few topics, thus extending the role of the Military National Security Service with cyber-esection activity, linked to the recently adopted T/1620 for Hungary's security. For bill No.1, shows some of the detailed rules necessary for the restructuring of the Honvéd Hospital, and most of the job status issues are thus clarified at legal level in relation to the transformation. In addition, the amendment clarifies the provisions on the finding of breaches of the rules relating to defence and security activities and extends the scope of the exemption for the compensation of overwork in the case of professional personnel of the defence. These amendments will be included in the bill in full with the elements that are justified by changes in the legislative environment. The Fidesz fraction supports the adoption of the proposal, and I would also ask my fellow Members to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-05-250	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, if he wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] He'll tell you later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. Members' speeches will follow if they become candidates. [[No signal.]] There is no applicant; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence.
u2022-12-05-251	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As my fellow Member has very well summarized, this bill, which lies before us, will restore the name of Honvéd Chief of Staff, but this will not only be restored to the designation, but to the creation of the Central Command Force Commands and the restoration of the Honvéd Chief of Staff will complete the transformation in which the Honvéd Command has been separated from the Ministry of Defence, the military leadership from the civilian leadership. In addition, the original proposal was, of course, complemented by the proposals of the Legislative Committee. I, too, ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[19.30]]
u2022-12-05-252	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the arrangements and organisational framework for the provision of certain public tasks for public sport and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/1836. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Tibor Pogácsás, rapporteur of the committee, will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee in the debate.
u2022-12-05-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 24 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1836 on the rules and organisational framework for the performance of certain public tasks for sport purposes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to increase the management and exploitation of national sports assets to other organisational levels and to ensure that it is carried out in the form of an agency. The State will implement a new system of public tasks related to the management of certain public sports activities and the operation of the national specialised museum of Hungarian sports by establishing the National Sport Infrastructure Agency with independent budgetary resources, the tasks of which will be assigned a 100% state-owned company. Ladies and gentlemen, The amending proposal adopted by the Legislative Committee states that the classification of real estate for sport purposes can only be carried out if all owners of the real estate in the case of the real estate ratio agree. Furthermore, in view of the fact that the agency is managed separately from budgetary resources, it is necessary to establish that the assets and intangible assets acquired under this management are, by virtue of the law, wholly owned by the State and subject to the exercise of ownership rights of the Agency. Finally, the proposal includes a guarantee rule that NSÜ Zrt. is responsible for the relationship between tasks. the successor of the former trustee and former rightholder and the available funds for the performance of the Agency's public tasks for legal predecessors on the date of succession may be used exclusively for those public tasks. Dear House, In conclusion, if the proposal before us is adopted, the effectiveness of programmes in the field of sport can be significantly enhanced by exploiting synergies. The monitoring of resource utilisation is becoming more professional, and in the current economic environment, in particular, the economic and long-term sustainable operation of the stock of installations with a heavy burden on public finances has been ensured. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-254	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Pogácsás. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, his rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[Tamás Vargha: Later.]] He wishes to speak later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Culture. I do not see a candidate for opposition by Members, and therefore the debate is closed. I would like to conclude with Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill, as it organises the operation of sports facilities and the organisation of sporting events in a single framework. And everything that lies before you in this bill is intended for everyone, without exception and regardless of whether they wish to use these sports facilities as amateurs or professionals, to have access to these facilities, and for all Hungarian people and our nation to become healthier through sport. That is, therefore, the purpose of this bill, and I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-256	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Next up is the 5th meeting of 2026. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposal for a National Environment Programme and of the draft amending proposal. The government referral is H/1834. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-12-05-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the 5th meeting of 2026. H/1834 on the National Environment Programme A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The submitted 5th edition of 2026. Through the National Environment Programme, we now hold in our hands a strategic document which draws attention to the right way to use the environment, to taking personal responsibility, to the harmonisation of different social and economic interests in a transparent manner, to the holistic approach, to the simultaneous consideration of short, medium and long-term aspects, to sustainable space use, social justice and the principle of sustainable use of local resources. The Fidesz-KDNP Group supports the bill. We see the need to strengthen the coherence between the economy and the environment, which can facilitate the green conversion of the Hungarian economy, i.e. the spread of materials and energy-saving technologies, and the acceleration of the process of transition to the circular economy. We must take into account the reduction of atmospheric pollutants, the maintenance of biodiversity, the rehabilitation of the damaged environment and the proportionate fulfilment of our international obligations. The social impact of the transition, the cost increase associated with the expansion of new green technologies, must be taken into account and the costs of compensating them. At the same time, it can be concluded that a lower level of additional resources may arise if Article 5 does not apply. The funds already available to achieve the NKP's objectives will be used in a coordinated manner, therefore effectively and in line with the strategic objectives. Dear House, The Committee on Legislative Affairs adopted an amendment to the proposal, which provided clarification on language positioning. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the light of what has been said. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-258	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Herczeg. Dear Parliament, I salute the Secretary of State, Anikó Raisz, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Energy, and, as rapporteur, you wish to speak now or later. [[Dr. Anikó Raisz: Later.]] He said he'd like to speak later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Sustainable Development did not present a rapporteur. Representatives' speeches will take place within the time limits on which they are to be put on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] But I don't see a candidate. Dear Parliament, The debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to Secretary Anikó Raisz. [[19.40]]
u2022-12-05-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Article 5 During the discussion of the National Environment Programme, the political groups presented their comments in detail at both plenary and committee meetings, and in doing so, it was repeatedly said that the professional work that was behind this document should be praised. I would therefore like to thank you once again, and, as the Member has just said, this programme will cover what Hungary intends to do in the coming years in terms of environmental protection and the transition to a circular economy. So I will do nothing else this way, but I would like to thank you once again for your help and ask you to vote in favour of this resolution proposal. Thank you all very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-260	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Anikó Raisz. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to waste management and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/1848. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-12-05-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1848 amending certain laws relating to waste management. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 16 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The reform of the extended producer responsibility system is central to the proposed amendment of certain laws relating to waste management, whereby the manufacturer is responsible for the development of the product and technology before it is developed, and for the favourable choice of waste management requirements and for the planning of the disposal and recovery of waste from the product. The bill clearly shows that the topics covered by the product fee and the so-called producer responsibility scheme are significantly overlapping, so it can be said that manufacturers do not have to expect a financial burden increase. Under the extended producer responsibility scheme, the bill makes manufacturers interested in the use of saving materials and resources, thereby contributing significantly to the protection of the environment. Another key issue of the proposed amendment concerns environmental harmful elements, i.e. illegal landfills, which are also important in Hungary. The material and resource needs of their disposal and removal to an appropriate collection point are significant, and as a result, based on the views of the waste management authority, the new legislation will be stepped up in order to eliminate illegally abandoned waste. This objective will, inter alia, be reflected in the strengthening of the control powers of the waste management authority and the tightening of the points governing the recordings contained in the legislation. The Legislative Committee has adopted 51 amendments in which, in addition to text-focusing and norm-setting points, the paragraphs which draw attention to the provisions that have already been put into effect, thus no longer need to be addressed in the law currently under discussion. It has been pointed out that the Office is obliged to fulfil its duties of information and reporting with the content, form and time specified by the Office, thereby assisting the Office in its work, since it would be almost impossible to obtain the data without such restriction. In particular, the extension of the manufacturer's responsibility to pay the manufacturer's financial contribution to waste products collected by local authorities under producer's responsibility is an important point of the amendment. The proposed amendment adopted by the TAB specifies that in order to preserve impartiality, the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities should act in the case of compensation authorities in relation to the waste management concession. The proposal also states that the national waste management public service plan will only be launched from the second half of 2023 and that it is therefore justified to grant a ministerial mandate until 1 July 2023. In addition to the previous changes, I would like to highlight the precise listing of the deadlines contained in the amendment proposal, which will help meet the requirements and ensure adequate preparation time for future participants in the public waste management task. Dear House, The bill before us confirms the fulfilment of the basic requirements of the concession system, the sustainability of the retail reduction and the fulfilment of EU obligations and targets. The Fidesz-KDNP Group supports the adoption of the proposal in the light of the agreed language positioning and clarification amendments. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-262	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Herczeg. I will ask Secretary Anikó Raisz, the author, whether she wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] He said he'd like to speak later. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Sustainable Development did not present a rapporteur. No one has applied for a representative's speech. I waited a little while. No one's checking in. The debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Secretary of State, Anikó Raisz.
u2022-12-05-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you once again for your participation in the debate, and, as you have just said, Mr President, the Committee on Legislative Affairs has had proposals which, in addition to the norm and clarifications, have included substantive amendments to assist in the transition to the concession system. So in the light of all of this, we ask this House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-264	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Anikó Raisz. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the further extension of the operating hours of the existing Paks Nuclear Power Plant will now be discussed. The government referral is H/1838. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Attila Steiner, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[For signal:]] Later. Thank you very much. [[19.50]] The designated Committee on Economic Affairs has not presented a rapporteur, no representatives have spoken, so I am closing the debate and I am now giving the floor to State Secretary Attila Steiner to close this section with a close.
u2022-12-05-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the groups for expressing their views on the proposal in the general and in-depth debate, and the motion was supported by all the groups, which also indicates that no amending proposal has been tabled on the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention and point out that, in the current geopolitical situation, the role of power plants that operate safely and reliably as a core power plant in the country is appreciated, while energy is produced in accordance with all criteria, including the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and therefore the extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a very important strategic issue. Thank you very much for your support so far, and I would ask you to support the resolution proposal with your vote. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-05-266	Thank you very much, Attila Steiner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. And I will correct it, because I may have just said that the decision will take place on tomorrow's sitting; so it will take place not on Wednesday's meeting tomorrow, but on Wednesday's meeting. Thank you very much, I'm sorry, it was a slip of the word. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain mining and economic laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/1844. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-12-05-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1844 amending certain mining and economic laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Thanks to technological developments over the past period, in addition to fossil fuels, we now have safe and clean technologies, such as geothermals, with which we can effectively protect our natural environment while ensuring a continuous supply of heat and energy. The geological properties of our country are particularly favourable for geothermal thermal recovery. Geothermal energy can support our country's energy sovereignty in the long term in a predictable and stimulating regulatory framework. With the widespread exploitation of the Hungarian geothermal potential, Hungary's energy exposure can be reduced by up to 1-1.5 billion cubic metres of natural gas per year by 2030. The aim of the proposal is to establish clearly that the extraction of thermal water for primary medical and agricultural purposes does not fall under the mining supervision authorisation procedure, i.e. the 1993 XLVIII on mining. the scope of the new legislation on geothermal energy. In the case of such extractions, the water authority shall continue to act on the basis of the rules in force prior to the entry into force of the relevant provisions of the bill. Where the production of thermal water is carried out for several purposes, the determining authority shall examine the primary purpose of the extraction on the basis of the application. In order to create a predictable regulatory environment, geothermal energy can be extracted and used on the basis of a contract with the Mining Inspectorate. The new form of authorisation provides sufficient flexibility on both the mining business and the state side. The State can control the mining business through the contract and, if necessary, intervene. In addition to the rest of the law, the primary objective of the proposal in the tobacco trade area is to protect young people from the harmful effects of the use of plant and herbal products that can be consumed by heating technology. In light of what has been said, I think the bill should be supported, and I call on my fellow Members to support it in the vote. I also thank you for your kind attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-12-05-268	Thank you very much, Congressman László Vécsey. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Attila Steiner, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[For signal:]] It indicates that at the end. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not present a rapporteur, nor did it apply for speeches in writing or on the ground. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary.
u2022-12-05-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate and for your supporting contributions, and I would like to inform you that a proposal for an amendment to the bill has been tabled by its representatives, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has tabled an amendment closing a detailed debate. Following the completion of the detailed discussion phase, the amendment proposal was also submitted in the Legislative Committee's procedure, which clarifies, inter alia, the establishment of an administrative suit against the decision of the mining supervisor and the rules on the transfer of shares in the concession company. The authorisation of mining activities is complemented by the fact that the mining business operator must have a declaration of law and intent as a condition for the contract, which ensures that the intended geothermal energy is used for the purpose of exploitation. In addition, the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities and the Authority would have to participate in various health, prevention and tobacco control campaigns by virtue of their powers, and the proposed amendment would extend these tasks with the assistance of tobacco shops. The Authority should then publish regularly flyers and update them in the form of posters, which it should send to all tobacco shops in one copy in order to allow tobacco retailers to place them in their business space at their discretion. In addition, the amendment contains technical specifications and ensures clarity and regulatory coherence. As I mentioned in my exposem, the bill essentially concerns two regulatory issues: firstly, rules on mining, in particular on the exploitation of geothermal energy, and, secondly, the rules on trade in tobacco products in order to protect the health of minors. So I would like to ask you that, if, on the one hand, Hungary's energy security, increasing our energy independence and protecting the health of minors are important for you, you will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-12-05-270	Thank you very much for the closure of Secretary of State Attila Steiner. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Here comes the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. [[20.00]] The government referral is T/1839. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey.
u2022-12-05-271	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Act T/1839 amending Act T/1839 on the amendment of certain related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Over the past years, the National Atomic Energy Office has received new powers and has increased the number of tasks. Today, the National Atomic Energy Office supervises more than 4,000 licensees, issues nearly 1,500 permits and carries out over a thousand on-the-spot inspections each year. An important international requirement for the safe use of nuclear energy is that the authority responsible for nuclear safety is independent of the interests of producers, owners and service providers. The bill on the House's table extends the possibility of providing remote data to the entire surveillance activities of the nuclear monitoring body, so that in the future the provision of remote data will also be possible in the case of other nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities. A provision defining the role of the manager of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund will be added. The CNPA manager shall submit to the Minister responsible for energy policy, together with the preliminary position of the CNPA Committee, a plan for the support and use of the associations for approval. In addition, the amendment proposal complements the power to issue a government regulation. With regard to the application for a licence submitted to the nuclear power monitoring body, the deadline for the first deficiency call is set, taking into account the deadline for administration in the procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office, which may be 60 days, 90 days, 120 or 150 days, 8 months or more, as well as the possibility of issuing a deficiency notice several times in the procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office. The possibility of combining procedures will be introduced. There are two conditions: the same determining authority and the material relationship. The procedures shall be merged at the client's request. In order to ensure the safety of nuclear and radioactive waste storage facilities, the authorisation procedure for activities subject to authorisation within the safety zone of nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities should be opened so that the other nuclear installation and the holder of a radioactive waste storage facility involved in that activity is able to learn about the activities potentially affecting its installation and the business secret associated with it. In light of what has been said, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr President.
u2022-12-05-272	Thank you very much, Congressman László Vécsey. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Attila Steiner, that he wishes to speak now or later. [[Attila Steiner: At the end, Mr. President.]] He wishes to speak later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. No one has applied for a representative's speech. Dear Parliament, Then at the closing point, I'd like to ask Mr Attila Steiner, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-05-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the comments expressed during the general and detailed debate. I think that we are talking about a very important issue, because there is also an energy threat in Hungary, and the secure supply of energy to families requires extraordinary measures. Basically, the power generation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is one of the cornerstones of domestic energy supply. In the case of electricity, 50 percent of domestic production comes from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, so nuclear energy is basically a very, very important element of our security of supply. With regard to the amendment of the law, I would like to point out that the social and economic transformations in the world and in our country and the international expectations of the security of the use of nuclear energy have also developed over the past period, which is why it is necessary to make the relevant legislation more rational and modern. In this regard, I would ask you to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-12-05-274	Thank you very much, Attila Steiner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/1843. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The position of the Legislative Committee will be presented first in the debate by Mr László Vécsey.
u2022-12-05-275	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas T/1843 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 28 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is to bring about legislative changes and enforcement experience over the past period, as well as consistency with the legislation that has entered into force in the meantime. The bill creates the legal conditions of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office's power to operate an energy regulatory test environment. The aim of the new regulation is to encourage and support the uptake and entry into the market of energy innovation performances that can facilitate the sustainability, cost-effective operation of natural gas infrastructure, adequate supply needs or security of supply, as well as the integration of hydrogen into the functioning gas infrastructure and the development and development of clean hydrogen networks based on the functioning gas infrastructure. The amendment ensures that the transmission system operator is able to obtain and sell the surplus electricity needed to compensate for network losses on the transmission network, while enforcing the principle of minimum cost. [[Sic!]] The amendment is necessary to provide the transmission system operator with all means to reduce the costs associated with the operation of the network due to the existence of extremely high electricity prices. The purpose of the amendments is to apply definitions that comply with EU legislation in domestic legislation and to transpose the EU provisions on the level of gas storage charges and the reduction of gas demand into domestic legislation in order to ensure the security of gas supply in the European Union. In the light of what has been said, I would ask my honourable Members, this House, to support the bill during the vote. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.10]]
u2022-12-05-276	Thank you very much, Congressman László Vécsey. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now or later. [[Attila Steiner: Thank you later.]] Later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. No one has applied for or applied for a speech by its Members, so the debate is closed, and I would like to take the floor from Secretary of State Attila Steiner.
u2022-12-05-277	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your support in the debates. With regard to the proposal, I would like to point out that the war in Ukraine has caused a long-awaited energy and gas crisis in Europe, and this is gradually strengthened by the Brussels sanctions policy. And, as I mentioned in the general debate, it is of the utmost importance for the government that Hungarian families have access to energy at a safe and affordable price, and the main aim of the amendments before you is to ensure that there is a sufficient amount of gas and electricity in our country, in accordance with European regulations, at adequate prices. In view of this, the new independent Ministry of Energy was also established on 1 December this year, whose primary task will be to manage energy policy in a uniform way. The gas and electricity supply crisis is affecting all of us, and the proposal essentially affects energy in these two areas, so it is of particular importance. I would also like to stress that, in the course of the procedure of the Legislative Committee, basically, legal and linguistic specifications have been submitted, and in view of what has been said so far, I would like to ask you to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-05-278	Thank you very much for your work, Secretary of State Attila Steiner. [[Attila Steiner: Thank you very much.]] Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. What is reality in the countryside? Mr János Bencze, representative of Jobbik. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-279	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, What Is Reality in the Country? Sitting here in Parliament, among the benches of Parliament, I have heard countless ideas and countless opportunities, and many questions have been raised. From the government side there is a pink reality in the Hungarian countryside, where everything is fine, all we need now is for Hungarian people to farm in their own houses, on their own land, and for young people there is the wonderful village CSOK. Well, you have to come down to the country and see what the reality is in the countryside, that it doesn't, that's not how it works. I went around, asked people, talked to countless people about why they didn't do their gardens, why there's grass instead of crops, why there's crops, why there's trees. People told me why this didn't just start. This started after 1990, when Hungary was sold out to the western multi-capital, they created industrial cities where people travel from the countryside, the multi-centres that give jobs. What does a young man do in a country or an ordinary man? He's trying to make a living. Where can you make good money? If you go to a job where you get a decent wage, not decent, just acceptable, because if you want to earn more than 200 thousand forints net, you have to get on a work trip about a man or a woman, and you have to go to a multinational to work. You can earn up to 300,000 forints and even work a continuous shift up to nearly 400. But if he stays put, he's gonna have a penny he can't make a living on. Those who have no other options, care for a sick relative, can only solve the family's life. Let's take a look at the life of a man like that who takes on the multiworld. These people travel several hours a day to get there. At 4:30 a.m., but some people get on a work trip at 4:30 a.m., go to work at the company, work their hours off, and they're home at 4:30 a.m. Most of the time, these people spend more than 12 hours away from their families, including walking until they get home, and after all these hours, they have been told neither time nor desire to go out into the garden and do something. Please, this is how the Hungarian countryside is taken away slowly. Anyone who can pull closer to the industrial centers, giving up the former rural existence, losing the skills needed to keep livestock, what is needed for gardening, and staying in the closed folds, properties for sale, or what I was talking about at the beginning, the grass gardens. They always tell us to propose a solution. We can suggest a solution. There was once a functioning Hungary, which Fidesz promised after 2010 to bring back jobs within reach of people, not a day or two by going back and forth; at a distance available. Anyone I asked said that this would mean that within 30 kilometers, I would get a decent job. A young person could have a family, a family, if he didn't go to an industrial multinational for three shifts 60 or 90 kilometers without even meeting his mate, but came home near him, even by bicycle. The way to deal with children, do and do around the house, restart the production around the house and revitalize the Hungarian countryside. As long as your government uses strategic agreements to serve industrial multinationals, degrades the valuable Hungarian labour force in rural areas and urban areas into simple industrial robots, there will be no change in this country, the Hungarian countryside will be dying and the Hungarian countryside will not revive, young people will not take on children, new houses will not be built. And even though they say the village CHOK, you have to go to the people who hired you. Those who have hired the village CSOK, the sum of which is HUF 10 million, most of whom have not been able to finish their property, will also be in trouble. They must be helped, and they would be able to help if, after the current crisis, an economic policy followed, where jobs would be available every 30 kilometres in the Hungarian countryside, so that the Hungarian countryside would remain, Hungary would remain, we could develop and grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-280	Thank you very much, Mr János Bencze. Gyula Földesi, Member of the European Parliament, applied for a post-meeting speech: he was born 100 years ago with the title of painter Imre Gaál. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-281	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Imre Gaál was born a hundred years ago. His early death prevented his artistic career from being completed, but his life's work as a torso is still impressive and timely enough to turn to him with serious interest. Sándor Nagy, master of the Hungarian Art Nouveau, assisted in the production of the frescoes of St. Elizabeth's parish church in Erzsébet, and a few years later he also designed the two side glass windows of the sanctuary, St. Stephen and St. Elizabeth. Budapest, XVI. We can also admire its glass windows in the parish church of St. Joseph in the district. In 1943 Imre Gaál enrolled in the free school of Tibor Gallé, and in 1945 he was admitted to the Academy of Fine Arts, where he was a student of Aurél Bernáth and István Szőnyi. In 1946 he met the painter Endre Rátkay, and they became friends until his death. In 1947, he left college to devote his time entirely to the multi-directional work of creation. He was initially sympathetic to the optimistic ideas about socialist community life, but later, like many of his contemporarys, he was devastated by social semathism and moved to seek new ways of expressing himself. This is where the attitude of Rátkay, like Endre Rátkay, can be traced back. In contrast to traditional aesthetic expectations, it was not the formal grasp of classical beauty, but rather the visual appearance of the new beauty ideal created by analytical intellect. For a decade and a half, Géza Décsei prelatus, artistic writer, was commissioned by the parish priest of St. Elizabeth's parish in Pesterzsébet for the frescoes of the church of Mendé, representing the life of St. Ignác of Loyola, and for the creation of a similar altar image for the Church of St. Ignác in Esztergom. At Kiskunlacháza in 1959 he painted the wall image of the Galaabok in the Reformed parish, where he also recorded a number of local residents. Local police captain Nolipa István Pál, painter and graphic artist, also recognized Imre Gaál's talent and supported him. Thanks to Nolipa, he got a studio apartment in Pesterzsébet, on Kende Kanuth Street, where today his name is guarded by a plaque. There's only one daughter and granddaughter on this street. [[20.20]] Besides Carnival and Circus, he worked on the theme versions of Children's Games, Masters, Panoptic and Pantomime. In 1960, the Állók group was founded with Pesterzsébet artist friends, writers and artists, which worked until 1964, until the death of the artist. He was preparing for his first solo exhibition and his wedding, when he died tragically on 14 May 1964. In the years following his death, he was remembered by numerous independent exhibitions throughout the country. The vast majority of his compositions are in the collection of the Museum of Pesterzsébet, his two paintings are in the collection of the Hungarian National Gallery and some of his works are in the Kiscelli Museum. The renovated building of the former Museum of Pesterzsébet from 1989 was named by Imre Gaál, and a significant part of his life's work can be seen at a permanent exhibition in the Rátkay-Átló Gallery of Pesterzsébet. Several articles, writings and some publications related to the post-mortem exhibitions were published, but they failed to integrate him into contemporary Hungarian painters. One of the reasons for this is that the publication, which has been examined and taken into account from a professional point of view, has not yet been published. This is why it is important and joyful that, with the support of the National Cultural Fund, the 13th volume of the Museum of Pesterzsébet's album D. Udvardy Ildikó Gaál Imre was released for the 100th anniversary of his birth. In the book, besides paintings and graphics, there is a selection of his sketches, fragments of his drawings and monumental works made for church orders. Imre Gaál's aesthetic and moral art, his way of life tells us to be more careful, take greater care of our talents. This was said by A. Béla Kovács about the art of Imre Gaál in 1968. Dear House, Imre Gaál Memorial Exhibition is open until December 17th. I urge you to visit and see the exhibition of this great painter. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-282	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Földesi. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Fazekas, representative of Fidesz, 75 years old, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title Karcagi Research Institute. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-283	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to an important anniversary, since the Karcagi Research Institute is 75 years old, one of the traditional landscape institutions that have served the Hungarian agricultural and food economy, the Hungarian countryside, for several generations. The peculiarity of the Institute is that the traditions of farming, animal farming and crop production here are rooted in the identity of the Great Kunság for the next 800 years. After a number of transformations and maintenance changes, the Karcagi Research Institute was integrated into the then established Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences in 2021. In addition to the five campuses, it has become part of a multi-faceted and strong research network that brings together 11 research institutes and several companies of the former National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre. This system of institutions, which included the colour of the practical research background, united Hungarian agricultural-higher education and research. At the same time, however, it only centralises to the extent necessary and intends to strengthen excellent rural research workshops such as the Karcagi Research Institute. Indeed, the activity of Karcag researchers is extremely important. Thanks to their persistent, hard work, regional producers were also able to learn how to manage the soils more effectively. Adaptation has also been shown in agriculture and in the breeding of local plant varieties and varieties of wheat. The whole country will benefit from and see this, as scientific results can be used in many areas of Hungary in other areas. Under the aegis of MATE, the number one scientific workshop of the Grand Kunság has entered a clear career. In the national coverage institution system, the Hungarian agricultural and scientific policy can be at its core, which helps to make the work done here even more successful and efficient. In the midst of constantly changing agricultural conditions, regulations and accelerating urbanisation processes, the results of the Institute are increasingly needed. It doesn't matter what GMO-free, reliable, healthy seed we sow into the soil, how much it needs to be watered, what crops it brings and what quality it will be placed on our table or in front of our animals as feed. The Karcag experts have a very high quality in this area, and their wheat breeding results have made the research base world-famous here. Congratulations to the head of the institute and its employees on these fine successes. For the 75th anniversary of the Karcagi Research Institute, there was also a jubilee publication in which the results of lawn management in the fields of agriculture, rural development, plant breeding and maintenance are presented in detail, and the success in the field of shepherding, since the Hungarian Merino sheep stock is maintained by the institute. I hope that this strong base of Hungarian agricultural research will continue to be a successful development in the coming years and will continue to be effective for Hungarian food production and domestic farming. There is a great need for this, as seed breeding and production are key to Hungary's food self-determination, and this will continue to be the case in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-05-284	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. He also spoke after the agenda with the title of Mr Vinnai Győző, notary, representative of Fidesz:. The development of Nyíregyháza and its region. You have the floor.
u2022-12-05-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I represent the 2nd constituency of Szabolcs County in Parliament. The constituency has twenty settlements in and around Nyíregyháza western. My basic goal is to ensure that the quality of life of the people living there is clearly improved. In Nyíregyháza in recent years, a series of highly thought-out strategy-based, mutually reinforcing developments has been implemented. This is demonstrated by the use of EU and domestic funds for economic development, transport infrastructure, infrastructure improvement, tourism development, reconstruction of public institutions, basic health care and social services. But that's what we did for the cities and villages in the constituency. In the settlements of less than 5 thousand people, the Hungarian village programme is truly successful. Many applications have been implemented to repay old debts, so I can safely say that the region has made great progress and its development has become noticeable to the people living here and perhaps to the visitors as well. A few words about economic development then. We have placed great emphasis on the development of industrial parks, as the economic catching-up of the region is our first priority. The Nyíregyházi Industrial Park is located in a 130-hectare area, in which the park is currently being expanded and developed in its immediate vicinity, in more than 400 hectares. As a result of the development, a coherent area with a well-infrastructured utility infrastructure will be created that can serve even the needs of the largest manufacturers. These investments increase GDP and create new jobs, thus contributing not only to the economic development of Nyíregyháza, but also of the region and county. Just to mention, with the development of the LEGO expansion of 53 billion HUF, LEGO has been here for nearly ten years, W-Scope South Korean factory is producing an electric car separator film, will start 1,200 new jobs from 24 onwards, and Michelin, ContiTech, Hubner, Eissmann Hungaria will be here. The Ibrány Industrial Park, which works excellently, is also an area where I can talk about smaller settlements. In this small town, the metal industry is strong, and we are now building an industrial park in Tisavasvári, where the pharmaceutical industry has a strong tradition, and it is enough to refer only to the Alkaloid. [[20.30]] From EU funds and nearly 700 million forints, we create an industrial park for potential investors in Tisalök. All of this will help create new jobs and maintain the current ones. It is an important achievement that unemployment has fallen to an unprecedented low level, 3-3.5% in Nyíregyháza and its surroundings, while the low number in Tiszavasvári and Ibrányi district has never been seen, 7 and 8 percent. On transport development, I can tell you that, in recent years, transport infrastructure has progressed to a level that improves the accessibility of the region and the constituency. The route to Nyíregyháza from the west was handed over in 2019 and the settlements of Ibrányi district reach the highway bypassing Nyíregyháza. [[Gergely Harvestó: When is the highway being built?]] But we also need to see that the western bypass offers an opportunity for a better approach to the western industrial park. We have renovated one of the most important overpasses of Nyíregyháza, the Tiszavasvári út overpass, where the settlements of the entire district of Tiszavasvár can approach downtown. In addition, the transport infrastructure of Nyíregyháza and its region has advanced by building circular traffic and nodes. But also from EU and domestic sources, several lower roads have been renovated. The more than 20 kilometres between Nyírbogdány and Tiszabercel and the section between Nagycserkesz and Tiszalúc can be mentioned, which also covers more than 20 kilometres. Dear House, To conclude, a few sentences about tourism. Three years ago, the Tokaj and Nyíregyháza were established, and besides Nyíregyháza there are eight Tisza settlements from my constituency: Tiszadob, Tiszadada, Tiszalök, Tisavasvári, Rakamaz, Szabolcs, Balsa and Gávavencselő. There have been large-scale developments in all settlements, and from EU funds a tourist proposal of nearly 750 million HUF will develop the Tisza settlements. Dear House, Allow me, Mr President, to mention only one tourist attraction from Nyíregyháza, in case the Members have not yet heard of it and will come there. The best zoo in Europe has won three times in the last five years, the zoo has seen more than 5,000 animals and has real attractions. It can therefore be said that Nyíregyháza and its region have developed a lot in recent years. Thank you for being so patient. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-05-286	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech. What did the year 2022 bring to Kőbány and Kispest? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-287	Thank you very much. If I want to answer what the year 2022 was like for Stone Mine and Kispest, then I can do it with the joke of the old joke: worse and better. It was worse than the year 2021, but it was better than the year 2023. What we need to mention first is the increase in overhead, the brutal exaggeration. There is no doubt that the increased gas and electricity prices are extremely burdensome, causing difficulties for families in Kőbánya and Kispest. There are many people here who pay their bills from month to month, hardworking people who live on pensions, wages and salaries, for whom it has not been easy to pay their bills, but now the seven-fold increase in gas prices, the double-up electricity price, the system usage charge that has been increased to very little for consumers, causes them enormous social difficulties, crises and problems. I must also say that the extortion does not affect district heating even in the case of the population, but everyone who lives in such an apartment is looking forward to what the government has said, that in this winter period the charges for district heating will not be increased. They know what that means. It means that in the next heating period, too, there is a fear that they will face brutal prices in this area. Let us add, and this is also known by the citizens in my constituency, that it is not only about the consequences of the war, not only about the run-away prices and gas prices, but also about the government's failure to seal the housing, houses, continue and expand the panel program in the last ten years, and it has failed to switch to green energy, renewable energy. This is why Hungarian households are vulnerable to energy prices, and this is why we have to face very serious conditions for citizens in Kőbánya and Kispest. The situation is dramatic. In the regime program of the shadow government, we see how many families are in Stone Mine and Kispesten who are in an impossible, difficult social situation. But it doesn't spare the reprimands either. In their case, the price of district heating has skyrocketed, and the result is that unfortunately, there is a need to shut down Stone Mine and Kispesten institutions. The swimming pool of both districts is closed, cultural institutions are closed, and municipalities are struggling to keep local government workers and at least to provide social and educational services at the standard level. I must add, fellow Members, that there is no misunderstanding: one district has a fidesz and the other district has a mayor on the left. In Budapest, no matter what color the mayor is, no matter what color the municipality is, the Budapesters are still grounded, because not only the local authorities have escaped from the sky, but also the withdrawal. 3-3 billion forints is what the districts lose under solidarity tax, with the stolen revenues of the car tax and the business tax. That's the amount of money that's missing from the register, you can't use that much for social purposes, you can't spend that much on development. Both districts had to shut down the development of the district. The situation in the capital is similar. There are also many improvements that the people of the district are waiting for in vain. To mention the most important thing, he mentioned the most, for example, that there was not enough resources to develop the roads. I would add that there is always money for my bicycle dome, small-time football world in Viktor Orbán's Hungary. The fact is, my fellow Members, that the next year will be a year of survival, because the municipalities are in a very difficult situation, and we are threatened with losing the rest of our health institutions, and we see what the consequences are, and this centralization has ruined the education system, which is also waiting for health care. But just because the next year will be the year of survival, I would like to remind you now of the most heartwarming experience of this year, the fact that local governments, citizens, churches and civil society organisations have acted together, together taking care of the Ukrainian refugees coming to us and expressing their solidarity with the Ukrainian people. It's important. This solidarity, this kind of common thinking can help us through the next, very difficult year, until there is a government to which Budapest, Kőbánya and Kispest are important, which also cares for the people who live there and helps them with their problems. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-05-288	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. After the agenda, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, asked for a speech:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address.
u2022-12-05-289	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Once again, I have the opportunity to tell you what's happening in Newpesten. I cannot avoid the difficulties the municipality is facing in the current situation, because as a representative of the people, the leaders there are doing everything they can to ensure that, in this difficult time, even in the midst of increased energy costs, due to inflation, it will not only continue to take operational and savings measures affecting the institutions that have begun, but also to consider the directions for development. We want to raise awareness in the field of energy saving. The municipality has already started preparing these developments, but the costs have increased surprisingly. It now faced the extent of the increase in the district heat account, while Újpesten's thermal power plant operates, but the primary responsibility for determining the price of district heat is the energy office. So in our current 40 institutions, kindergartens, kindergartens, social and cultural facilities, the total cost of district heating was very high: while in 2021 the total cost was HUF 151 million, the next bill is now tenfold, HUF 1.5 billion if it continues in this way, and the government is no longer able to... or the energy office refuses to intervene. [[20.40]] This will be the important issue in the coming months. In December, there is a 20-day term when this correction can be made. The extent to which this will occur and to which the municipalities will be affected depends on this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is particularly difficult for GPs. There has been more than 15 times the amount of overhead that the general practitioners alone cannot handle. Therefore, the municipality intervened, helping to do so, but there are also two few who can do everything without the help of the state, without increasing the incomes of the general practitioners. This situation cannot be maintained in the long term, this needs to be changed, and this is the responsibility of the State. One of the most important steps for improvements is that in kindergartens, crèches, institutions where there are plans for this, there are indeed improvements that make it possible, in particular, to insulation, to replace windows, because this will achieve a real reduction in fees and not to increase, as I have just mentioned. We want to modernise the heating system of residential buildings, schools and public buildings in this sense, so new plans are being made in cooperation with settlements, but this cannot happen without the responsibility of the state. This is the responsibility of the government, and it must be supported in the future. An additional opportunity for the local government to reduce energy bills and help the population: just this week, for about ten days, the municipality of Újpest will distribute 42,000 light bulbs as part of a call for attention and on the other side as a concrete help to the population. The energy crisis forces us all to save and think, which is what this programme supports. Modern and modern LED light sources can be accessed from de-cember 5, as I mentioned, for several days on the Újpest market. However, this program also includes the greening of Újpest, one of the important elements of which is wooding. We have now planted more than 500 trees in this autumn, and there is still a line of trees with 250 trees on Megyeri Road. All of this contributes to a pleasant environment in our city. I trust we can reduce our energy bills to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-290	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, asked for a post-municipal speech:. The victim of the Mafia government is Debrecen! It's an address.
u2022-12-05-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is worth pointing out in the front, however, before my fellow Members, Lajos Kósa and Fidesz, in Debrecen, begin to beg for flying salt, that I am a full-on necked civic, and like every necked cívis debrecen, I love my city. I was born there, I live there, and I wish to grow old there, that is the honest truth, and for all this I may be a little bit more sensitive than Lajos Kósa and the mayor of the city of Debrecen, if I see my beloved city being deliberately destroyed, plundered, defrauded, fooled, and looted by its inhabitants, polluted and drained from it, even the little that is, and spewing out the air of the city of Debrecen with dust and smoke. And that's what's happening now. While, of course, the government's lying propaganda and the rag-cracking, conceited Fidesz ministers, State Secretarys, the organic fidesz leaders of the city of Debrecen say for 0-24 hours that they bring unprecedented developments to Debrecen, the reality proves the opposite, because we know that they are actually bringing in giant companies, including a Chinese giant battery company. This Chinese giant company is building the factory at a forced pace at the border of Debrecen, but this factory will not bring development to the city of Debrecen, but the future of Apocalyptic Mad Max. In 2025, this factory wants to produce. Although he doesn't have a single professional license, except for the douche bag in Orbán, he doesn't have a single professional license, as the factory's management submitted the necessary documentation just a few days ago, at the end of November, but the archaeological explorations were completed long ago, and they even just called me on the way to Budapest, saying that huge machinery had already appeared in the area and that they had started to do the earthwork. Of course, I must add that there is not only this much, but there is also the company's director responsible for government relations, as if everything were in order around the factory; as if the Debrecen people were looking forward to this factory with joy and open arms, a huge monstre construction near the city's immediate border, and I must add that similar factories in China have already been shut down more by the same company, it turned out to be an ecological disaster, and there is also a catastrophic water shortage in the operation of the factory. They act as if everything is in order between the government and the city's pro-government representatives, as they know very well what I know that 72 percent of the citizens of Debrecen do not want this factory to be built at the border of Debrecen. 72 percent of the Debrecen people fear for their children and grandchildren, seeing the future and the fate of the city uncertain if this factory were to be built. As the days pass, more and more details of the well-built and depraved government strategy around the factory are revealed. It cannot be a coincidence, for example, that in the quiet town of Debrecen, without any special tourist attractions or attractions, the fantasy of those who want to build hotels and dreamers has simply moved to Debrecen, and suddenly everyone was thinking about building a hotel in the city of Debrecen. In fact, we didn't really understand why all of the Fidesz-near businesses suddenly want to install hotels in Debrecen, so that when they handed over the built-up hotels, they were always there, either the mayor or one of the Fidesz politicians. Well, it can't be a coincidence, and today the secret has been revealed, which has been known only by the government's loiterers: whether the Chinese giant factory or the BMW company in Debrecen wants to fill the workforce with foreign, mostly far-eastern, migrant workers, and these people need accommodation. But the only ones who knew this information were those who were orbiting around the vultures, the Carmelite monastery, years earlier. And if we add to all this that the Civaqua programme, which has already been mentioned here in Parliament, has been created because the water is not actually meant for the perishing Great Forest and the now dying, otherwise drought-tolerant acacias, but for these factories, it is likely that the picture of what it is about around Debrecen is coming together: they are building everything here for the sake of the multinationals who are dear to Orbán, and I think it is right to assume that Debrecen has been the victim of the Mafia government as well as the entire country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-292	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Mr Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, also applied for a post-scheduled speech. This is how we close the year in the Fifteenth and Újpest. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The end of the year is traditionally the time of reckoning. It is particularly important to do so when, as an individual parliamentary representative, a person assumes responsibility for the development of an entire constituency, the resident of this country, for more than 80,000 people, here in the House of the country. However, as there are equals and equals in Orwell's Animal Farm, unfortunately Fidesz-KDNP's exercise of power is essentially about the fact that, as long as the districts and cities of opposition representatives and mayors are the worst, the better it is for us to bleed and make impossible, the districts and cities of loyal representatives and mayors can always expect some central compensation. [[20.50]] It is cynical, and let us say it, Balkan politics, but it is typical of the daily exercise of the Orbán system, which has been in existence for 12 years. As a fresh Member, in view of the development of my constituency, and subjecting myself to it in May, I took part in the work. Taking into account the gaps and opportunities, I have tabled 12 amendments to the budget for next year. Among these were developments such as the renovation of the Csobogós residential office, after the Fidesz closure of the Árpád Hospital and Károlyi Sándor Hospital, the construction of a new North-Pest hospital, the construction of a new railway overpass at the station of Istvántelek, the location of several fatal train accidents, the restoration of kindergartens, the revival of local public transport, road and sidewalk renovations and the construction of new parking lots in Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota, and the installation of surveillance cameras. These proposals were swept off the table without debate by the Fidesz majority of the Parliament on the grounds that their implementation would seriously jeopardise the functioning of the budget. They said that when there was money for the World Hunting Exhibition, the purchase of Vodafone, and there was money to chasing the Hungarians against the sanctions voted by the Prime Minister on slyin. What did we get instead? In four years, teleheat charges have increased 17 times, inflation has reached a record, there is a huge decline in forints, and the government is constantly raising taxes. As long as the municipality paid HUF 93 million to the public sector's electricity bills in 2019, this amount is expected to be HUF 793 million next year. In the last three years, the figures for natural gas have been as follows: HUF 79 million in 2019 and HUF 781 million in 2023. Let's see the district heat: until we had to pay HUF 116 million at municipal level in 2019, this amount is expected to be HUF 1 billion 99 million next year. Meanwhile, Fidesz raised the local government figure called solidarity contributions from HUF 528 million in 2019 to HUF 2 billion 458 million. And what does that mean in everyday life? Restrictions, closures, government cuts, without the slightest hint of help. Because in vain Fidesz is constantly lying about protecting Hungarian people in the crisis, we here in North Pest are experiencing this in a very different way. In order to be able to operate in everyday life at all, we have to close the district swimming pool, the community house in Kozák tér, Zsókavár utca and the local historical collection. In the evening trainings of sports associations, the local government cannot provide the lighting, the Arany János Street and the Klebelsberg eldest club are forced to take a longer break, as the central police station in Pestújhely will be temporarily closed. In fact, the post office in Pestújhely has already been taken away from us because of bad government measures, unfortunately for ever. It was a priority, of course, that GPs and clinics are waiting for patients during the winter period with the usual opening hours, but because of the new government austerity and the ever-flying nationalization of the specialist clinics called health conversion, the operation of these is now in jeopardy. In my constituency, more than 80,000 people feel every day the consequences of misguided government policy, increasing overhead bills, disappearing from the store, the lack of sugar, eggs, non-available petrol before Christmas, the lack of teachers to teach our children, or doctors to heal our family members, to close the shops one after another, for convenience, to make the scenes of everyday life impossible. Instead of development, the Orbán government has reserved such a Christmas and such a new year for the XV. district and Újpest citizens. Shame on you! Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-05-294	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Barkóczi. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ms Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, asked for a post- Agenda address:.Salkaházi Sára, if Fideszes were to grant support to pensioners in Miskolc and not to show back. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-12-05-295	Dear House, Mr President, In October, the General Assembly of Miskolc amended its decree, whereby the one-off cash aid granted under the Sára Salkaházi Miskolc programme, which is part of the voluntary tasks of the municipality, will not be paid in 2022. The Salkaházi programme does not cease, however, the government's revenue losses, high energy prices and terrible inflation have put the municipality in such a difficult position that the necessary collateral for the financial support of the programme is not yet available. The government stressed the need to give priority to the mandatory tasks of the local government and to continue to operate as cost-effectively as possible. That's exactly what the municipality of Miskolc is doing right now. The municipality has developed several alternatives to the Salkaházi programme. As they want to continue to support pensioners in Miskolc, they asked the Members of Parliament to convince the government of the importance of the programme. I was one of the few who not only responded to this call, but would like to do something about it. Thus, as a representative of Miskolc, I stand for the continuation of the programme to support the elderly. In Miskolc, this program is also a nationwide example of the appreciation of pensioners and elderly people who served the city with their knowledge and built it with the work of their hands. They received 10 thousand forints each year from Miskolc from 2014 to 19 and the new city administration continued to do so and increased this amount by 10 percent in 2021, until now. In the Salkaházi program, the elderly and pensioners would now receive 13 thousand forints from the city. But he can't do that this year, and we really need him right now. When the government only gives 10 thousand forints of pension, how can the 13,000 forints be produced by the sacs of Miskolc? Government cuts, irresponsible economic policy have made the city impossible. Due to drastic energy price increases, the municipality is forced to spend every penny on its mandatory tasks, such as day care, the maintenance of kindergartens, social networks, basic health care, water and sewer services, community transport, city management and management tasks. The representatives of Fidesz Miskolc say in an unqualified tone in the general assembly that they are defending the Salkaházi programme. Here's your chance, take action. We hear from Viktor Orbán that we never listen to what he says, but what he does. So let's watch the chief's disciples. The blind can see that the local Fidesz people are scolding the left, but they're not doing anything to help their city. Saving Salkaházi would cost 460 million forints, which is the same as Miskolc City Transport Ltd. One-and-a-half month's expenditure. But the Fidesz doesn't ask for support from the Prime Minister for Miskolc, because the fate and life of the elderly who live here are only important to them as long as they can be referred to. Under the glaze, the reality is that they want to destroy the city, that on the ruins they created, they will climb up and take over the city's leadership. You're acting like an irresponsible mother who asks her underage child, "My little boy, my little girl, why are you starving?" Take care of your abandoned child, the local government. The solution is so simple: give back abstract resources, support for public transport, eliminate the special taxes, the energy sources will be given to the institutions at official prices, and the municipality will be able to ensure that the aid is paid. Sarah Salkaházi, if she had fidesz, her name on the program would surely give to the pensioners in Miskolc and not point backwards like the Fidesz people do. I recommend to the Miskolcs in difficulty to seek support from the regime fund of the Democratic Coalition, which has received more than HUF 20 million. [[21.00]] DK helps those in need to open presents under the tree in a warm home at Christmas. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-12-05-296	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Jakab also applied for an after-the-date speech: the brave are afraid of a new election! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-297	Thank you for the floor, fellow Members. I'm looking at the fidesz benches here, and there's actually only one question in me. Why the hell do we keep you? Well, fellow Members, it would be your job to keep this country running in exchange for all the tax forints you're taking from voters. Compared to this, the Hungarian state has no responsibility to help the poor. It's been reported that hospital hospitals will throw patients out if they can't pay for nursing care. They say there'll be fewer GPs. They say they can't heat up the classrooms, the kids need blankets. It is announced that there is no money for post offices, no police stations, no petrol at gas stations, no sugar in shops, and for this performance you will receive millions of salaries and millions of prizes called motivational recognition, even in this economic situation. The Hungarian one's gonna die, right? ! They pay a lot of taxes, and they get nothing in return. What did you promise before the election? They promised that if you win, the Hungarian workers will be given greater respect. Now, when the EU minimum wage should be introduced, they don't want to hear about it. Do you know how much it would mean to introduce an EU minimum wage? We're talking about 30,000 forints a month; we're talking about 30,000 forints a month, but you're still sorry about that. Before the elections, a wage increase was promised, and now they boast that the Slovaks and Romanians are already earning better than the Hungarians, and you think it is good, because Hungary is more competitive, the cheaper the Hungarians work, except for you, of course, this obviously does not apply to you. The government's wages were quickly increased to HUF 4 million and HUF 6 million. How they don't give a shit! And it won't burn. I swear, you guys are like locusts, you're gonna tear everything down, you're gonna eat the country, and all you're gonna be left with is destruction, nothing else. They increase pensions by 14 percent when food inflation is 40 percent. Tell me, but honestly, what's a 14 percent pension increase for this kind of price increase? Do you guys go to the grocery store? I do. Earlier, people told me that they're pretty much putting what they need in the basket, and then they're going home, and they're done. Well, that's not what they're doing right now. Now, between the shelves, they fall from one shock to another. The price of bread doubled over a year; the price of buns doubled; the price of butter, cheese and sour cream doubled. Orbán's salary has doubled, and the pension hasn't, and the employee's salary hasn't. That's the problem. Colleagues, if this were a normal job, you'd have to be kicked out of here with a pair of feet, because apparently you're just getting warm in here at 23 degrees. Fellow Members of the People's Party Movement demands that Parliament disband itself and have a new election in Hungary, which you voted against because you are afraid. They're afraid of a new election, afraid that their constituents, if you like, their employers will fire you, then you can go to work, and they've never done that before. You are aware of this, too, that you are aware of the fact that on 3 April the election was won with a lie. You know that, but you don't care. They are pleased that we have the seat in Parliament; they are happy that we have the greasy salary by 2026; the rest does not matter. And unfortunately, the latter is also true of the opposition somewhere. Because either way, as a representative of the People's Party Movement, I am here alone demanding the dissolution of Parliament, I alone demand the launch of new elections, and none of my fellow Members will support me in this fight, none. Yes, it seems that I am alone here in Parliament, but I believe that the country is not equal to Parliament, the country is not parliament, but the people. And if the people stand by me, then I am not really alone, but you are; how much is soon to be revealed. I'll stay on the side of the people.
u2022-12-05-298	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter James. Dear Parliament, Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, has applied for a post-meeting speech: he could also announce a deficit stop with the title of government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-299	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, As Mr. President said, with a price stop, the government could announce a deficit stop. How long does the government keep domestic companies operating gas stations uncertain? To whom do you intend to operate the impossible gas stations? The question of this year's drought or bad government measures may also be justified. The government measure, the year 2021 CXXX, has created a country-wide problem today. the provision of the Act on certain regulatory issues relating to the emergency, that it is obliged to declare a breakdown by the operator of a fuel station which cannot serve consumers for 48 hours with an official priced fuel. However, it is much more worrying that the sanctioning part of this law empowers the government to appoint another service provider after an inspection to operate the gas station that declared a blackout, the registered service provider within 30 km of the fuel station concerned, which can meet the needs of the population, to operate the service station concerned. Among other things, the chaotic condition is that in most parts of the country only 5-10 liters of fuel can be refueled at once, but there are more and more indications that many private petrol stations can only line up for 1-2 liters of fuel. The reason for this is quite simple, since none of the small entrepreneurs would like to take away the fruits and results of their many years or decades of work, so that they can bridge the insufficient delivery. White wells typically receive only 1 percent of their fuel in comparison to last year's fuel consumption, or not even that, as several fuel stations have reported that they have not received fuel supplies in the last two weeks, and the same is expected in the next two weeks, it seems that they have concluded a supply contract with MOL in vain. This is also due to the fact that, while MOL and the government have made hundreds of billions of forints in profits and still profit from every litre of fuel sold, companies operating wells have been able to account for losses for each litre in the last year and try to maintain their fuel stations from other companies, but of course this is also finite, and this cannot be maintained forever. For a year these provisions have kept more than a thousand entrepreneurs and thousands of families in their application unsure. With this law, the government has also created a condition for the inability, liquidation of small gas stations and the possibility for a potential larger, stronger operator to easily access the impossible fuel stations. However, these provisions do not state what happens if they cannot serve customers due to insufficient wholesale supply; they do not mention the sanctions imposed on MOL, for example, who is a dominant supplier in the Hungarian fuel market, because it cannot serve the needs, thereby seriously endangering security of supply. Another concern is that according to press reports MOL recently sold 143 domestic gas stations to ORLEN Unipetrol, the leading gas station operator in the Czech Republic. In order to protect Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian families, we expect the government to provide, as an immediate step, that MOL, as the sole domestic fuel wholesaler, provides fuel supply and supply to small wells, and to repeal the possibility of imposing forced cessations as the final rites of small wells bled out, as this would make it impossible for the government, in addition to the enterprises and the workers working for them, to eliminate the rural population as well. MOL, as the main player in domestic fuel supply, has virtually full power in fuel wholesale service, as it can decide which wells and what fuel it gives. He's doing this with government approval, because he's not bound by any regulations on the part of the government. Therefore, what our Hungarian Movement wants to achieve is that if the government tries to give at least the opportunity for the independent small gas stations to continue to survive, they can continue to prevail, because if we are less with them, then the countryside will again be less with something. Thank you very much for the floor. [[21.10]]
u2022-12-05-300	Thank you very much, Congressman Dócs. Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, has applied for a post-meeting address:. How many accidents do we still have to make on Route 66? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-12-05-301	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I talk about the problems of my own country, Pécs and Baranya County, and I do so now. Before I begin my speech, the substance of it, some sad cases, I would like to talk about some sad cases that have happened in the last year without exception. Near Manfa, for reasons unknown, a car slipped in one corner and hit a ditch. The hop firefighters arriving at the site have deactivated the vehicle in which only the driver of the vehicle travelled. Another incident: two cars crashed at the front on Route 66 near Pécs in the morning hours. The accident, in which three of them were seriously injured, alerted professional firefighters in Pécs. The driver of one of the vehicles was revived by firefighters and paramedics together. In one case, a van crashed into a passenger car between 7 and 8 kilometers of Highway 66 in the area of Manfa, on the road to Pécs. The hops professional firefighters have deactivated the vehicles. And one more case: so far, for reasons that have been unclear and unclear, two cars have crashed head-on on Route 66 near Manfa. Based on primary information, three were injured in the accident, and one man was killed at the scene. Only this year on this side of the road, road 66 between Manfa and Pécs, there were ten accidents involving personal injuries. We know that from the communication of the Road. Seven of the accidents were easy, two were serious, and one unfortunately ended tragically because the injured died. I have spoken about Route 66 in Parliament on many occasions, and not only in Parliament, but also in other forums. I have often tried to draw the attention of the relevant decision-makers to the need for immediate, meaningful action here. This is an extremely important section of the road, though, this is where the commuting traffic between Komló and Pécs is basically involved, but there are a lot of people coming from the direction of Sásd, Dombóvár and Kaposvár, so there is a huge traffic load on this road. Since 2018, there have been 40 accidents involving personal injuries. In this case, I have been looking for the competent authorities, the Baranya County Police Department and the Hungarian Public Road staff. About a year and a half ago, the Hungarian Road informed me in its reply that they could not directly take action to increase traffic safety, but they knew about a government decision in 2020, where the government ordered that the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. perform the hull reinforcement on the said section of the road. At the same time, the government ordered measures to increase traffic safety, to correct accident-dangerous sheets and to form lanes to the left, so basically measures that could reduce the risk of accidents on this road. This is a 2020 decision, and since then, unfortunately, it is clear that nothing of this has been done, so nothing is going to happen in substance, and unfortunately, there have been fatalities and many accidents after that. I am constantly trying to urge the government to take the necessary measures, because it is a very important route, and it is also a particularly dangerous route. Not long ago, I asked the competent ministry again on a written question and received a reply recently from Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister. Obviously, he said how important it is for the government to reduce the risk of accidents, and he also said that there really was a plan to take action on the road, but his response revealed that it was unlikely that the construction work would start here by the end of 2024. I think, seeing the statistics, seeing that all the relevant bodies, all the bodies involved in this matter, recognize how dangerous the road is, we can say that it is not possible to wait until 2024 to renovate this section of the road, because unfortunately, it is certain that there will be a multitude of other accidents and that these accidents will cause further deaths. Once again, I will try to find everyone and ask everyone, even the pro-government representative of the district, to come together to the competent ministry in order to take these steps forward and save lives here with these measures. And there is a resource for this in the budget, not a long stretch of road that can't be managed. But if nothing happens again, once again, the government will not move forward and these interventions will not be brought forward, together with the affected population, if necessary, by collecting signatures, and if necessary by any other means, we will demand that this extremely dangerous section of the road be finally renovated, and we can say that there will be no more accidents on road 66 between Pécs and Manfa. There must be no more accidents. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-12-05-302	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
