u2020-12-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 24th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Victor Vinnai and notary Gergely Arató will be of assistance to me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will start our work today with speeches before the agenda, after which we will have a two-hour session of immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, For a speech before the agenda, the leader of the Dialogue Group, Mrs Szabó Timea, came forward with a title entitled "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, ma'am.
u2020-12-07-1	Ladies and gentlemen, A dictatorship, hard or soft, is always determined by its own hubris, unbridledness and the myth of its own integrity. When the people of power are so blinded by their pursuit of money, their pleasures, their own depraved swamps, it becomes unimaginable for them to ever be exposed. Viktor Orbán is blind, depraved, and is now exposed. In the past week, even for those who have had illusions that the Prime Minister and his circle govern for the good of the people, Mr.Orbán's deceitful and lying government has fallen to the core. But it turns out that Viktor Orbán doesn't govern, and he doesn't give a damn what happens to Hungarian people. Viktor Orbán does not govern, because if he were to govern, the coronal virus epidemic would not have had to take as many deaths in the last week as it did in total in September and October. Orbán is idly watching more and more people die every day; the Prime Minister plays a despicable game; he thinks that people should die rather than stop the economy from losing their popularity. But Viktor Orbán does not stop here, Prime Minister Orbán, who is out of his mind and lost, is now fighting freedom against his own people in Brussels. With the EU veto, Viktor Orbán promises Hungarians that you will not receive the 250 thousand HUF free money each that the Union is now giving to all Hungarian citizens for crisis management. Orbán says that if the Union does not allow me to steal any more, then you Hungarians should not get a penny. The so-called rule of law mechanism demanded by the Union means precisely that the spending of EU funds is monitored by an independent body and that the theft is investigated by the European Union Public Prosecutor's Office. This is what Viktor Orbán is protesting, and this is not about gender or migrant, as the Prime Minister is lying about. If Viktor Orbán vetoes the EU budget, he will take one million forints from every Hungarian family. It's not a mistake, it's a historical sin. Orbán wants to make up for this loss by pushing Hungarian families into foreign exchange debt, by putting on an expensive foreign currency loan, which is a serious foreign exchange debt for every family of four. I remember that the same Viktor Orbán, ten years ago, considered the taking-up of the IMF loan to be virtually treason. Well, that's exactly what he's doing right now. You, Prime Minister, are a traitor. Finally, the veil has fallen from your false, false Christian, pseudo-conservative government. You talk to ten million people about Christian morality when your principle friends listen to Black Paco on a luxurious yacht with prostitutes, or they're at drugged sex parties and they're sneaking around naked on gutters. You know, I don't care about the drugs, the sex party, or the gutters worth a better fate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Then why are you talking about him?]] What interests me is that a Fidesz founder wrote your own, others of our society's completely excluded Fundamental Law, who couldn't comply with this paper himself. József Szájer is a fidesz fellow fighter who, laughing for money, for power, ruined the lives of others for a decade, while he himself fled so far from all of this, the Hungary in which he was supposed to live was so unlivable to him that he ran away from the country. But not only did he flee, he ran away, but in Brussels he lived exactly the life he had deprived others of for millions of public monthly dollars. He robbed people of the most basic thing: so that they could love. Since the beginning, Szájer has been part of the depraved machine with which he destroyed others simply from the base of enemy production, climbing into other people's bedrooms. After that, Zsolt Semyen dares to say that he doesn't comment on personal matters? After that, does Viktor Orbán dare to say that he has no knowledge of all this? Well, Zsolt Bayer himself said that the risk of that has been known to everyone for 30 years about Jóska. In the whole Szájer case, you are not sorry that the whole country has been deceived, but that it has been revealed, that you have been exposed and exposed to your decade-long lie and deceit. You're all immoral, depraved gangs. That is why in 2022 the country will break out of government, and that is why they will end up where József Szájer ended up: on the eaves of Christian-Conservativeism. Thank you.
u2020-12-07-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Szabó Timea. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First and foremost, the issue of health care. Perhaps you know that the number of infected has exceeded 67 million, and over a million and a half people have died. So you're pretending that this epidemic is affecting Hungary alone, and things are okay elsewhere, but that's not the case. The epidemic is very serious throughout Europe. In recent days, the number of deaths has reached a record, including in Germany, Austria, Italy and Croatia. We have 53 deaths per 100 000 people, while the EU as a whole is 61, so we are better off than the EU average, and this is the case even if you are looking for statistics with a magnifying glass to show that Hungary is performing poorly. I would ask you, perhaps not the first time, not to cheer so spectacularly on the virus. As far as the EU budget is concerned, you are misleading the public. Look, look, just in these weeks, what matters are being attacked and what action plan they are trying to get accepted on migration. The reason the two are linked is because the new procedure, the blackmail procedure that they want to introduce, does not apply to specific legal places, but would operate on a public announcement basis. That's our main problem. Take a look at the action plan you're trying to put down our throats. It says we should let tens of millions of people in. It says that political voting rights should be granted to those arriving here. It says there should be a home for the arrivals. But we remember very well that you would have opened the barracks to immigrants, and even supported the mandatory quota, as you attacked the border lock. So under these circumstances, we say no to such ideological pressure and extortion. Moreover, you are not telling the truth that only because of the budgetary debates Hungarians would fall from budgetary support, because even if there is no agreement, the spending of EU funds can continue on the basis of well-defined rules. You know that very, very well. As far as moral issues are concerned, I would like to tell you that there is a consequence of actions on the right. [[An uproar from the opposition's benches. Cries: Yikes! Wow!]] And never on the left. [[11.10]] There is no confrontation, no apology and no resignation, but there is one thing, a continuous lecture from those whose moral base often does not reach three millimeters. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] After they tolerate cocaine corruption among their ranks, the anti-Semites [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] After you lied to the face of the country, you lied about the statistics. [[It's an uproar in the dialogue.]] After talking about fakers in the House of the country, they have no basis to hold anyone accountable for moral matters. Nevertheless, there will be standards on the right, which apply to everyone, everyone will take responsibility and take responsibility for the actions, and this is a big difference compared to left-wing parties. And speaking of morals, there's been a lot of confusion about the bus camouflage. We know that in the capital, a contract was concluded with a company that did not even exist at the time of the tender notice. [[Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai intervene.]] Even if you shout, Congresswoman, I understand you're tense, that's still the fact. So there's a suspicion that they signed a contract with such a company because they knew in advance that it would win. Plus, this company doesn't even have expert employees, and the worst of all, there's not a single bus for this company, speaking of moral issues. And your mayor tried to put it all away by saying there's no contract, that the capital doesn't sign a contract. With that sneaking, you got caught early, because the day you found out what you were saying wasn't true, that's a lie, because the contract was already signed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and One thing we'd like you to do is stop looking at people like that. And if they were to say that they didn't know, they didn't know, and they weren't there, then I suggest you note that the BKK Supervisory Board has drawn attention to the press reports that the company's ownership is unknown and has no references and no information on its operation. Well, that's the way it is. They knew the company was confusing, but the contract was concluded, but they were still trying to deny it; nokijak can policy was refilled. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you have clearer relationships [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and they want higher moral standards in Hungarian public life, then they will resolve this matter as soon as possible. We want a lot of courage. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Member Antal Csárdi also applied for a speech before the agenda, LMP:. Let's talk about the facts. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Parliament, I know you're right to expect me to talk about your credibility after last week, but at the same time I think that your credibility is best shown by your legislative practice. You are indecently making government regulations, rules to be observed, which will be revealed an hour and a half before the entry into force. They act as if it were everyday, that a CEO, a citizen, don't give, a pensioner is sitting in front of the computer and constantly updating the Hungarian Gazette as to when the regulation has already come out of the press but is not known in detail. The same legislative practical anomaly is that you, although it is December 7, have still not been submitted to Parliament to amend the budget for 2021. In the adopted budget for 2021, we have achieved that there are no true sentences since then, since practically the economic downturn caused by the epidemic and the epidemic has completely set aside the numbers that the Hungarian Parliament accepted at the time of the adoption of the budget. It is shocking to see that it is also clear to the Ministry of Finance that revenue is expected to start from around 1500-2000 billion minus from the budget adopted as a result of the economic downturn, and we also know from the Ministry of Finance that because of the slippery or prolonged EU budgetary negotiations, this figure is up to HUF 2500 billion from the Ministry of Finance and this is added to the previous budget in 2021. We know that the 4,8% increase in GDP that the House of the country has calculated at the time of the adoption of budget 21 is now a thing of the past. We know that, and you know it, but we also know that at the moment, no one in the world knows, for example, the source of medical wage increases. In a budget that, as I mentioned, starts the year with thousands of billions of dollars, we do not know the source of, for example, 110-120 billion forints needed to reduce the tax on housing, and practically Hungarian economy players, small businesses, micro-enterprises, medium-sized and large enterprises, are groping in a vague, foggy future, because nobody knows anything about the budget for 2021. In the budget for 2021, I would like to note that the Parliament has planned some HUF 25 billion for epidemiological control, which I think we all know once again that it is certainly far from reality. We are well aware that one major step in the fight against the disease will be the purchase of vaccines and the organisation of vaccinations following the onset of the vaccine. This won't come out of HUF 25 billion, and then we haven't talked about other items. It would be my respectful request to my fellow members of the Government not to play with Hungarian society. Hungarian society has the right to know what the Hungarian government is up to from pensioners to active workers, from small business to large business, and I think that the budget is one of the tools through which it can be seen. Unfortunately, we can assume that this is the result of your infinitely cluelessness, you don't know what to do with the situation, and I think the most terrible thing that can happen to this country is that the Government of Hungary is looking at people without advice, shriveling, questioning, but doing nothing. I ask you to stop this practice, take seriously what is in this country's interest. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond.
u2020-12-07-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am honoured that you are concerned about the budget for 2021, while otherwise we have not even completed 2020. For the 2020 budget, thank God, you weren't worried, which means you agree with what the government has done in relation to the management of the epidemic in the 2020 budget. [[11.20]] I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that there is an epidemic, a crisis, a difficult situation for the world, for Europe and for Hungary, both health and economically and fiscally. This is why both the country and other countries have developed a system of special legal order that allows decisions to be taken more quickly in crisis situations, even within half an hour, on the day on which they were thought out and when necessary. We are also doing so by amending the budget, by redeploying funds. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] Obviously, the most important issue in the second half of the year was that we could provide adequate resources for the health management of the epidemic. This, I feel, I think, was a success. In the Anti-CDC Fund, HUF 643 billion was insured, which covers all the expenses needed to protect against the epidemic both in the procurement of assets and in the area of wage increases, such as the 20 percent increase of health professionals in November, and the gross HUF 500 000 for healthcare workers, which meant 101,3 billion for the country. And it was important to create a defence against the economy... to help economic failure, crisis crisis We also have the right foundation, this is a specific economic security fund. In the Economic Protection Fund, the government transferred some HUF 1366 billion with transfers to finance job retention, preservation, creation of new jobs, investment and development. The government is not trying to deal with unemployment, it is trying to avoid it. This mentality leads to such a significant amount being transferred to the Economic Protection Fund. Honourable Congressman, The 2020 budget must be closed first. In the context of the 2020 budget, the European Union has also stated that it will make a concession, it will not require the planned level of budget deficits in any country, as the European Union is not in a time of crisis as the Hungarian opposition is cooperative and lenient with countries. This is why Hungary has been able to create significant resources for defence in both economic and health terms. As regards your concern for the budget for 2021, be assured, the budget revenues that the country, the Ministry of Finance, the government can achieve will be collected. The January-February budget system at the beginning of the year is operational. The need for changes and changes in the 2021 budget remains to be decided by the government and submitted to Parliament in due time. Knowing that the planned budget deficit for 2021 is likely to be higher will keep the country operational and will be sufficient to modify the budget for 2021 for real processes in the coming year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-8	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear members of the government! I think the moment has come when you need to clarify a number of questions, namely, you are not Christians, you are not anticommunists, you are not even anti-Soros and you are not even national, and in the light of the past week, we can safely say that you have been looking at not only the Ten Commandments but also the Bible for years, because those of you who have been ruining our country on the basis of Christian morality and conservative values for ten years have been destroying our country. You want to tell me who the good Christian is and who the good Hungarian is, that the mother is a woman, and the father is a man, and if I understand correctly, according to Brussels Fidesz practice, the father, if the family is not there or is asleep, is free to flee from the authorities on gutters with big dotty drugs about his drug, group, illegal sex orgies. Is that good Christian morality, is that it? ! Well, I don't think so. Not for the first time, and not for the last time, I fear that you have nothing to do with Christian morality, nothing to do with what Christianity, morality, or the rule of law means. And since we've managed to make it clear together that morality and Christianity have about as much of a relationship as a pig to a straw hat. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Let's see who you really are. You say you're anti-communists. Is that right? But then why is the fidesz part of the parliamentary horseshoe full of ex-KIS secretaries [[Dr. Pál Völner: Gyurcsány!]] Why did they vote off agents dozens of times? In the spirit of their great anti-communism? Well, I don't think so. You say you're anti-Soros. Really? But didn't you learn with Soros Scholarship, didn't the party receive a rubble of money from Soros, didn't Viktor Orbán live at the mercy of George Soros for years? Did someone force you to do this? Nobody! You guys are just lying. You seem to condemn drugs. Man, don't say that. Well, aren't you, uh, one of your most important executives, the Belgian authorities, uh, caught him at a backpack full of drugs at an illegal orgy scene, fun and pathetic hanging out on a gutters channel? Yes, you can. Or should we ask Árpád Habony, who blinked and blinked big-time, or Tamás Deutsch, who is falling apart more and more, how do you feel about drugs? You say that family comes first, and that's a very good thing, that's a nice sentence. The only thing they forget is how they do orgies and whores when the family's not there. The child is the most important, and that is without a doubt, the only question you have is who. Pedophile fidesz politicians? For those who got busted for pedophile crimes [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Vice Mayors or diplomats, and the ones you're trying to clean up? The child is the first, I believe you, I believe you, but then why let Gábor Kaleta and the Fidesz deputy mayor who molested his own foster daughter, Tivadar Fohsz, run? Why are you letting him go? ! Or is that how you like kids? [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame on you! An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: You too!]] And I would suggest that the much-spoken plebejus government should be left to wonder, it is a laughing stock when the luxury yachts swinging in the middle of the Adriatic are transferred by helicopter to luxury private jets so that their feet don't touch the ground. And let's summarize what we've learned today. You're not Christians, you're not conservatives, you're not anti-communists, you're not even anti-Soros, but you steal, cheat, lie with incredible diligence, and what's outrageous is that stolen money and drugs and whores [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How do you speak?!]] They spend it on orgies, luxury yachts and some crazy luxury. God, home, family! I know, right? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] You? Well, stop messing around. You're the government of three: public money, cocaine, whores. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Nana! Károly Kontra: Mr President!]] It's your reality, it's on your flag, otherwise, and they're not even national. You want to tell us who the good Hungarian is, you who sell your country to Russians, Turks, Chinese and God knows who else? ! And now we're talking about soros-money-educated communists, drug addicts, pedophiles talking to us eyeballs. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] Arrogance, superiority, morality, family, nation and country. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] Look in the mirror, if you want to see who's betraying your country, and if you're horrified by what you see there and want to escape, then... [[He's showing me a piece of gutters drain.]] Did I bring you a familiar piece? [[Interjection: Yes.]] It's a sewer. Come and take a look, do the gymnastics we've already met in Brussels. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Do you practice? Practicing?]] Just be careful. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause the top here is very sharp, so don't put your hands on it...
u2020-12-07-10	Thank you very much...
u2020-12-07-11	...something's wrong, or put something in their backpacks! [[A statement from the ruling parties: Sit down!]] Thank you. [[11.30]]
u2020-12-07-12	Thank you very much. Congressman Varga! Obviously, I must tell the Speaker that he was trying to color his performance by means of a forbidden or unannounced demonstration. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-12-07-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's very telling that if we've observed you correctly, there wasn't one of your fellow factions in there during your speech, probably even they thought it was embarrassing. I am generally a fan of the fact that the House of the country is the field of the honest word, and there is a need for tough debates. But one thing I would ask of you is that you don't confuse the House of the Country with a pub. That's what I'd like to ask. As to what you have to say, you may have mentioned or doubted that this government would be a national. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Well, I doubt that.]] After all, you started an anti-Hungarian campaign in 2004. It is then said that this government is not national. To this day, Hungarian communities across the border are being attacked. It was you who lied to your own people. You were the ones who shot at them afterwards, and instead of facing them and apologizing, you even gave them the honor of being responsible. It was you who privatized Hungarian companies. If you could have continued to govern, you would no longer be Hungarian property, substantial Hungarian property between large companies and medium-sized companies. It was you who called in the Russian Secret Service. You! Because, honourable Member, counting anti-communism from the rooms of the Small Villa is particularly steep. That's especially steep. In the matter of public money, please take a look at your party president's statements and see how he takes out hundreds of millions of dividends all those years after privatisation practices. After that, we do not want to accept lectures. But what is it about? and your speech already supports that. While the whole country is fighting the epidemic, doctors, nurses and virtually everyone in the country, your party turned to the election campaign. Let's see that Ferenc Gyurcsány even announced a 14-point program yesterday. If they thought that this programme involved fighting an epidemic or how to protect Hungarian jobs, they would be wrong. [[Zoltán Varga: Have you read it?]] There's no such thing. Instead, there are a lot of words about how left-wing parties can gain power, left-wing parties, including the liberal Momentum and, by the way, Jobbik. So, honourable right-wing Members, you can't keep your eyes open in this House. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: They are not us! Shame on you.]] And in vain, as they are now, the autumn leader of lies has assigned you to your place on the left side of the square. So, there's no other way to understand it than that the list of Gyurcsány was announced in the middle of the epidemic. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Very weak!]] He's the one who gave me the initial beep, he's the one who gave me the basics, and he's the one who sets out the rules for fighting, the power struggle. The fact that you guys made it 14 years after the fall speech to the point that this lie leader should be trusted, he'll tell you everything. But the man who would have carried it apart piece by piece would refer to democracy if he could continue to govern. How fortunate that in 2010 the Hungarians had put up the. Gyurcsány-stop-table, and I am sure that they will do so again in 2022, remembering the devastating years. But now, I think that is not the most important thing to do, to deal with your programme, but to fight the epidemic. In this connection, we would like to ask one thing, so as not to spread false news about the epidemic between two power riots. One of their politicians attacked the published statistics last week, for example, and also doubted that medical students in vaccinations would have protective clothing. I would also ask you to stop doing that, after you spread lies about ventilators, patients sent home, tests and vaccines. So, if Santa was gonna give us a ride to fake news, then the left would have to open separate warehouses. And it doesn't seem to be that close to Christmas. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was so weak that even your friends didn't laugh at it!]] Christmas can't get close enough to turn their fake news and hate machine a little lower. I'd like to ask you to do it at least in these weeks, in the most difficult weeks of the plague. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-14	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-12-07-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My question to the Fidesz State Secretarys, Congresswoman and gentlemen here is when they'll start apologizing, because there's a reason and a person to apologize to. Let us start with what Tamás Deutsch said to his fellow Members of the European Parliament, fellow Members of a party family, when he began gestapoing. But we could also apologize for Szilárd Demeter's gas chamber Nazis, because they clearly show, and you have shown that you have no respect for democracy, European values or the rule of law. They could also apologize for the veto of the Prime Minister, which they are working against the development of the Hungarian economy and the interests of the Hungarian people. So not only do Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian people fall away from EU support, but they simply refuse to tolerate the fact that they can no longer steal EU money. And I didn't even want to mention that Fidesz's fake Christian morality was hanging out a few days ago at the scene of a Brussels sex orgy with a backpack full of drugs. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Only you mentioned it!]] We haven't heard an apology from you for this shame because we're ashamed. Ladies and gentlemen, For ten years, Fidesz has been working on building an inhuman, pseudo-Christian authoritarian system based on lies and hypocrisy. The events of the last few days have demonstrated that the Fidesz regime has now completely lost its sense of reality, has faced Europe as a whole, and have forgotten what they have to do: good governance. Hungary has no responsible government today. They do not do their job in health care, in the social sphere and in the economy, but they would have something to do, because we are drifting deeper and deeper in the crisis. Dear fellow Members, It is also time to apologize for what you did not do or did during the epidemic and the crisis: you failed the Hungarian people. Today, it has become apparent to all Hungarians who feel good, and the Fidesz regime is doing something different than what it says. You said you'd cure everyone, but thousands of people have died of the coronal virus infection in one week, more than in the last two months. They said they wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road, while 150,000 unemployed don't receive any benefits, we heard the Secretary of State here, unemployment is simply not being treated. They say that the Hungarians have never been so good, while health care is on the floor, education is declining, and millions of people are without it. They were able to spend 140 billion forints on sport for crisis management, while the healthcare area received 50 billion, even the churches received 103 billion forints. And don't come with the hundreds of billions of dollars of breathing equipment, because it's a model example of your corruption system, the way these machines have been acquired. Dear Fidesz Congressman, Ladies and Gentlemen, It should not be about the veto protecting the thefts of the Fidesz elite and how much better it would be to defend itself outside the EU. This is bullshit! You know that the EU is not an obstacle to mass vaccination and contact research, mass testing, but the Fidesz government. It is not the EU that hinders the introduction of a 100 percent pension that stops infections at work, but you, the Fidesz government, are. Notice, registration on the vaccination list does not protect anyone, serialisation and migranting do not protect anyone. Notice that action must be taken. We have to act now! They didn't even come to the committee meeting where we could have discussed our proposal on 100% sick leave, although this would be one of the most important means of slowing down or even preventing the spread of viruses at work. Ladies and gentlemen, In order not to mourn at Christmas, we need to protect people now. Be mass and free screening, meaningful contact research! Let's make it a hundred percent sick for the infected. [[11.40]] Give meaningful help to families, elderly people, businesses, unemployed people to make a living. Fidesz and Viktor Orbán are responsible for every minute of delay, every delay and bluff. Hungary and Europe expect good governance. Do your job, for our future together, for Hungary!
u2020-12-07-16	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2020-12-07-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You are here in Parliament today and in recent weeks talking about Brussels resources as a free money, a gift, a source for Hungary, and you never add that it is a joint loan that we are talking about. Do not tell people, as before 2010, when hundreds of thousands of families and households were allowed into the trap of foreign currency lending in Hungary [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] That it would be free money, just like they let the foreign exchange loan be said in commercials! You are saying the same now, honourable Member, that free money is coming from Brussels. There's no free money coming from Brussels! One of the sources that is coming is a joint loan that we have to repay, and in the event that another EU Member State does not pay, the other countries have to pay for it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It's not free money, Your Honour. The rest of the support you, all the left-wing formations in your joint communication, have said that EU support for us is not intended for us, but for us, but for us, and it is indeed a national responsibility for all countries. You're talking about good governance. A responsible government cannot regard what is due to us as a donation; but there are also responsible opposition politicians, or at least they could be, who say that this is not about free money and resources for us, but they would also stand up for the Hungarian national interest. This money is for Hungary. There can be no subsequent conditions, because if it can be today, it can be next month, and then in mid-2020, and in 21, and in 22 and in 23, new and new conditions can be added. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Or we stick to the laws, the international treaties with which we have joined the European Union, that what is due to Hungary is due, and there is no new and new condition, because you would allow it now, and obviously here, as in the fairy tale, the wolf will only enter his foot through the door at first, but then he will come in to the little sheep. You know the story, I think you read it to your child at home sometimes. Let's learn from it and learn from it, Your Honour. We cannot allow a letter to differ from the contracts, because this puts the Hungarian national interest at risk. As regards the apology, honourable Member, Congressman Szájer was able to apologize. We haven't seen much of an apology on the left in recent years, no matter what the case was. As regards the sources of health, honourable Member, you say that we need more sources of health. You too, if you look at the OECD's statements, which cannot be described as an organisation serving the needs of any government, but is counting on objective data, it was only your period, the period of your governance, when you did not grow in Hungary, but reduced expenditure on one person in the European Union and within the OECD Member States. There was no other country at the time, nor since then Hungary has been in such a situation. Since then, the seventh largest increase in resources for healthcare has been made, and this is not said by the Hungarian government or by any Hungarian body, but the OECD says that in the socialist period alone, the amount of health expenditure per capita has decreased. And that, honourable Member, is what you've been doing with ventilators, that you've been told every day that you don't have enough ventilators, and then, of course, you've told me that you don't have enough masks and no other protective equipment, and since you've been convinced, you've been saying there's too much, even when the head of the WHO himself said it's better for a country to over-insure itself with ventilators than if there's been a shortage. You also read these news, honourable Member, both east and west of us, that there really is a hospital where they run out and that they are forced to put more people on a plane; I think that the health risks of this can be seen by everyone in their senses. Hungary cannot be in this situation, because we are beating in Europe both from a ventilator and from a hospital bed, precisely because every Hungarian person's life matters, and we will fight for the lives of all Hungarian people, even when you make irresponsible statements here in Parliament or outside Parliament. You have been talking about testing for a long time, and you have said this today, honourable Member, as if Hungary were not in the forefront of these rankings, and it was in the forefront. Honourable Congressman, You know that Hungary has conducted the fifth most of the EU Member States' tests in the last week in proportion to the population. It would be good, although it is a vain hope that you may acknowledge this, that the Hungarian health authorities have acted in the fifth most effective way in Hungary over the past week in relation to testing. Of course, the grapes may be sour in the MSZP, because Ferenc Gyurcsány announced a program this weekend and distributed his tasks to everyone, so the MSZP has also defined what its task will be in the next Gyurcsány government, and we hope that this time will not come, and he said that you will be responsible for the social portfolio. Your social politician is Lajos Korózs. Looks like he's going to be able to count on a ministerial velvet chair in the Gyurcsány government after all these years and weeks. Maybe it's a little humiliating. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that you should also learn about Facebook about the task that Ferenc Gyurcsány intends for you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-18	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. The representative of Jobbik, György Szilágyi, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. How long will the power rise to this level? It's an address.
u2020-12-07-19	Thank you for the floor. Are we partying, partying, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz? Maybe there was some fun party this weekend, and the reason there's so few people in the benches is because they're still resting on it. You'd think there's nothing down there, and there is. You are constantly expressing conservative-Christian values, and we are constantly confronted with the fact that they are not conservative or Christian in their actions, because they cannot be allowed to rob the country, not caring for people, because they are being stolen when they put public money in their pockets, because the public money is the money of all citizens, our common wealth, and you are constantly looking at it. By draining public funds, all Hungarians are taking away the future. The Borkai case cannot be included in this system of values when your party partner, then Fidesz mayor of Győr, is on a luxurious yacht with prostitutes and probably with some drugs while his wife is waiting for him at home. This order of values cannot be covered by the Kaleta case when you have done everything in your power to keep a pedophile's misdemeanor secret. There is no access to the case of an ex-fidesz deputy mayor accused of pedophile crimes against his daughter, but you still tolerate it among yourselves, or even implant it in a curatorium linked to the construction of the Makovecz temple. Neither can József Szájer, who is almost naked, fleeing from a gangbang party with drugs in his bag, on an eavesdropping channel from the Belgian police. The József Szájer, the founder of Fidesz, whose lifestyle you have been hiding from the public for decades; I suppose you know about the hidden Vienna affair. And who, despite the lies present in his life and the differences in moral and values, was entrusted with the writing of the very Christian, very conservative, granite-solid Fundamental Law, which we can safely call the Szájer Fundamental Law. It is true that the author of the Fundamental Law, given the events of the last few days, may not agree with their recent amendment that the father is a man, the mother is a woman. Maybe he thinks otherwise. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Do you agree?]] And you can't afford to shoot pets, to urinate, to constantly hate, to steal and lie, to ignore people and their country, to ignore even the Pope's intellects. But you can do all that. That's why we've been saying for a long time that you're doing a fake national, fake Christian government, and you're deceiving your own voters because there are no two Fidesz. The real face of Fidesz, which has been listed so far, is that only power and money keep you together, only power and money move their actions, that's their religion, that's their values. Their path, their values are paved with urization, luxury, theft, fraud, lies, parties, prostitutes, and some drugs. You see the whole government as a big party where there are no rules, and you can do anything you want. We have now come to the point that all of Europe, but also a large part of the world, laughs at us thanks to you. They laugh at the B1 warrior who is alone and who is trying to fight everyone, but they just wave at him, and who is now fighting only his own demons, but apparently has failed with them as well. [[11.50]] They laugh at the MEP in the Adam's suit hanging on the gutters, but they do not say that the Fidesz is, but that the Hungarian is. You have made Hungary and the Hungarian people a laughing stock in front of the world. Shame on you! And I know the answer. Now I quote to you in advance what you will say: Soros, Soros, Coros, Slop Coalition, Gyurcsány, Libernyak, Komcsik, Soros, Soros, Korózs, Slop Coalition, Soros, Korózs, Soros, Korózs. This is your governance, communication, and by the way, the whole country has been let down, burned down by Hungary. You are the reason Hungarians are ashamed abroad, you are the reason Hungarians are ashamed abroad. Shame on you for acting like this. You are not worthy of representing this country. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-20	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-07-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If someone in our political community does something unacceptable, there are consequences. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Dániel Z. Carpathian: Wouldn't it have come out?]] This really separates us from your political community, because in your political community, this fundamental principle does not exist, and if it does exist, only at the level of writing, none of you take it seriously. It's just that I've written a few things out of your speech that I've always wanted to respond to. If you're going to lecture me on a highly valued, conservative policy, let me ask you now, Congressman, if I understand correctly. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You don't ask questions now, my friend, now you answer!]] then the provisions of the Fundamental Law setting out the anti-immigration position [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Sit down.]] which contains provisions on family protection, why do you disagree with them? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik: Settlement policy!]] Why didn't you vote in favour of these provisions at the time? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you're corrupt! Explain the bond.]] When they accepted it? And then I'd like to ask Congressman [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We're gonna be here all afternoon arguing and talking to each other, so we're gonna have a chance to talk about this, so if I understand correctly... [[It's a constant noise from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-12-07-22	Congressman Balczó, please calm your surroundings as well. Thank you very much. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It was me!]]
u2020-12-07-23	So, if I understand correctly, you do not agree with the family protection clause in the Fundamental Law that you are planning to vote for or preach about politicalisation based on principled political ideology, while, if I see the news correctly, the most important task of you as opposition party in the context of the protection against the coronal virus epidemic was to agree with Ferenc Gyurcsány that a sufficient amount of parliamentary representation on the Gyurcsány list [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'll get them for you. I don't know how you can account for your conscience when it comes to whether or not you will be a Member of Parliament in 22 or not, it will depend on Ferenc Gyurcsány and his allies who, by the way, have indebted this country, who have impoverished this country, and who, in a subtle way, have tried to prevent anyone from expressing their displeasure in this context by means of arms, police forces, and all kinds of oppression. Then what principle of politics is this, Congressman, in your opinion? He spoke about Europe's policy. If you are indeed on the ground of national sovereignty and independence of the country, then why is it that you do not stand up for the Hungarian Government in the fight for sovereignty in the EU, because the explanations we have heard from you in this regard in the last few weeks do not stand the test of reality. If you have a request for a proper use of EU funds, we can support you in this request, and we also represent it in EU fora. However, the procedure called the rule of law, which is now being negotiated, is not about that, but is a political pressure tool. Look, Congressman, I see you swinging your head, reading the draft regulation, what the conditions are in it. Read the documents on our country that have been produced in European fora, which have tried to write a political indictment under the heading of the rule of law. Look at the Tavares report. Look at the Sargentini report. What are they criticizing about us there? Our immigration policy [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Our social policy, the minimum wage regulation, what we have in our textbooks. What do you think, Congressman, that has to do with the rule of law in the context of principled politics? I believe that there is nothing, and if there is indeed a right-wing national government, which has a margin of freedom and independence at the heart of Hungary's policy, then it would be a dog's duty to support the government in the negotiations. What I see is that you are very far from it, of course, anything can be said, this Chamber has had a lot of things before. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Even this speech!]] But I think that whoever here has a conscience to account for is not us, but you. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm glad you're still familiar with the word "rules" in Jobbik because in your policy over the last few years, it seemed like you'd forgotten that. In the current situation, the Member States of the Union, national governments, are busy fighting the epidemic, everyone is negotiating vaccines, and they are jealous of Britain because they are starting vaccination tomorrow. There is an epidemic and budgetary negotiations are ongoing. In this situation, the European Commission felt the need to present and present a new migration action plan. Why is that the most important thing now? Why are there so many bureaucrats, sure, experts, not European citizens working to get the vaccine as soon as possible? These are legitimate questions, but unfortunately there is no answer. By carefully reading through the migration material, we find some pretty hair-scraping things in it. The document describes migration as an unavoidable, unstoppable and permanent phenomenon. It considers migration to Europe to be a positive phenomenon; it only evaluates it from an economic point of view; the ageing European countries need the labour force, they say. We never hear of the promotion of family support, population policy, support for young couples, because migration is the solution to this. It is quite clear that they help, support and strengthen migration. The Commission's new migration action plan contains the same radically pro-immigration measures as George Soros and the NGOs he financed, while we know very well that in recent years there has been a significant increase in terrorist acts by migrants, which have often cost European lives. It has been stated that all EU Member States must be bound by solidarity with regard to the reception of migrants. The Commission's Pact for Migration has never been so open before. So far, they wanted to believe that Europe was not adopting migrants to import labour but to help refugees for humanitarian reasons. In the first instance, the Commissioner for Migration talks about 34 million people who would be granted citizenship, voting rights, social care and housing, so housing and social support, and finally voting rights for immigrants. That is exactly what this proposal says as a coincidence! The Soros plan, too. 34 million people, more later, while 50 million indigenous national minorities in Europe have been swept off the table for years. Meanwhile, unemployment among young people is a major problem in many countries of Europe, especially in the southern states, and a significant proportion of young people in Europe cannot get their own homes, receive no support for starting a life or having children. In Spain, 25% of young people are unemployed, and in Italy the average age of moving from their parents' house is over 30 years old. The European Commission therefore does not address the problems of young people in Europe, but wants to organise immigration. We are hearing amazing, unscared sentences from EU leaders, such as President Ursula von der Leyen, who spoke about the need to broaden the scope of opportunities to facilitate the legal arrival of immigrants in Europe and guarantee the full rights of legally admitted people in the Union. Or even David Sassoli, the Socialist President of the European Parliament, who believes that legal immigration channels should be opened to those who come to work on the basis of the needs of the EU labour market in order to maintain the necessary level of economic growth despite an ageing society. The Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, said that there are many immigrants here and we need them, and we will probably need a lot more immigrants in the coming years. These are statements that migration has become the European Commission's number one cause, which is more important to them than that of European citizens. [[12.00]] Meanwhile, another attack was launched on the part of Brussels, for which the Hungarians said no to immigration. Another infringement procedure has been launched on Friday, now due to the migration emergency, which will also help us to protect our borders successfully. It's hard not to see the connection between things, even though border protection has a lot of work to do. The migration pressure at the southern border has increased significantly in recent years, only 2195 border crossings had to be dealt with last week; this is the highest weekly data since the end of 2015, but the previous weeks were similar. Thank you for the work of the police and the soldiers. Of course, the Hungarian left is pleased to note the developments in the EU, their MEPs voted in favour of all pro-immigration proposals and previously considered the southern fence unnecessary. There should be no doubt: the left, always seeking foreign compliance, would also implement the Commission's current migration action plan in Hungary without saying anything, but it would be an irreversible and fatal process. The Hungarians have repeatedly said no to immigration, and we will continue to represent it, so people can only count on Fidesz-KDNP for the security of the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2020-12-07-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is fighting with all its power today against the coronal virus epidemic, fighting to protect Hungarian people. He struggles to provide adequate hospital care for the Hungarian people who get sick. Security is also a very important value in this situation, one of the most important community values, since it defines our daily lives and defines our life conditions. Hungary is a safe country today, one of the safest countries in Europe. We have achieved this result by fighting law enforcement in three areas: on the one hand, protecting the border, protecting the southern border, protecting Homeland Security and taking part in the fight against the Crown Virus. Here, before the National Assembly, I thank our police officers, our soldiers, who protect us, who we have been able to count on for the last five years, and in this situation we count on. Thank you for your service. The number of migrants, as the honourable Member has said, is significantly higher than the previous one at the southern borders in the last year. This year, until 6 December, 38,928 illegal migrants wanted to enter Hungary illegally, while during the given period of the last year, a year ago this number did not reach 13 thousand people, it did not reach 13 thousand illegal entry. I would like to draw this House's attention to one more thing, and this is the number of smugglers. A year ago, it was 155 people, and now it's 414. So this has multiplied, and unfortunately this trend continues. This is because the European Union has not been able and has not wanted to solve the issue of illegal migration to this day, and we can say, as Mr President said in his speech before the agenda, that the new European Union proposal for a Pact on Migration and Asylum is also intended to allow migrants into the territory of the European Union, not to protect borders, but to bring migrants into the territory of the European Union. The European Commission's action plan on the admission of immigrants has led to the launch of more significant masses towards Europe, and the European Union's behaviour is hypocritical because, on the one hand, it refers to humanitarianly helping these people, these countries, while on the other hand, it says that their labour force is needed. Dear Parliament, Well, the European Union wants to bring the most skilled workforce to Europe, and it is not helping, but exploiting these countries. Remember colonial times, colonial thinking. Mr. Congressman, there is no new under the sun. It is clear what this is all about, because now, in the middle of the epidemic, there is a new proposal on migration from the European Commission to bring 34 million migrants into the EU, to whom aid, housing, citizenship, i.e. political voting rights would be granted. This is the Soros plan. In 2015, they were just talking about the need to accept refugees, to be solidarity with them, and later they were talking about the need to help economic immigrants, and then the quota, the idea of compulsory distribution of migrants, and the fact that borders should not be strictly guarded. We are now talking about the European reception of tens of millions of people, who should be given housing, citizenship, voting rights and social services. They want the European Commission to decide on rule of law issues, and in the event of a counter-opinion, the Court of Justice of the Union should decide against the current situation, and they would now want to impose on the Member States by a simple majority anything that could be called upon to be a rule of law. They want to ensure that the negative Hungarian-Polish position on migration can be voted off by a simple majority. We stick to the current rules, which do not allow a Member State to be forced to make decisions that it does not like. This must be said, honourable Member, here and in front of this House. The government is constantly monitoring the situation of illegal migration, strengthening border protection: for the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people, the government extended the crisis caused by mass immigration until 6 March 2021, in particular with regard to the migrant mass on the Balkan migration route, its security and epidemiological risks. Dear Parliament, The triple protection works: the legal protection, the fence and the lively protection fulfil its role and fulfil its function. The government shall provide the necessary resources for this in the 2021 budget. Thank you for the service of the police and soldiers who protect our borders, and we are counting on them in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-28	Thank you, Secretary of State Kontra. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The corona virus pandemic has been taking its victims for almost a year, and it causes a lot of harm and suffering to Hungary and the Hungarian people. Losing our most painful loved ones and fellow countrymen, but the plague did not spare the economy or our daily lives. In recent years, the health care system has persisted in the most difficult days through the victimous work of Hungarian health workers. In countries far richer and larger than us, the health care system is facing far more serious problems. Therefore, we cannot thank our doctors, nurses and all health workers enough for their work, as they are on the front line and be clear: even in the case of the best decisions, we cannot successfully defend ourselves without them. Today, Hungary is in the 12th place in terms of infection from the 27 EU Member States, so we have improved the ranking with one place. Unfortunately, mortality rates are still rising in Hungary and the European Union, but Hungarian data are still significantly more favourable than the EU average. The EU average is 613 per million people, the figure is lower in Hungary and 526 in Hungary. Of course, we cannot remain calm and we must continue to fight this epidemic as long as only one human life is in danger. During the first round of group rapid testing, 181 506 were tested in educational, health and social institutions. Seventy percent of the workers committed themselves and 30 percent refused voluntary testing. Out of 181,506 tested, 4436 were positive, representing a total of 2,44 percent positive, which is low. The two-week test was the result of unprecedented professional and coordination cooperation involving university students, government agencies and a number of supporting co-organisations. The selfless and courageous help of young people is exemplary to all. We thank them this way. Taking into account the experience gained during two weeks of testing, the national targeted group testing will continue today with the testing of the coronal virus of those working in the territorial administration. However, we will only be able to overcome this epidemic by achieving a safe and effective vaccine. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not possible to make a political issue of the fight against the epidemic and the issue of the vaccine. Human lives may depend on how quickly we can obtain and make available a reliable and effective vaccine. Political or economic considerations cannot be considered in this case, nor can we be influenced by the interests of pharmaceutical companies and large multinational companies. [[12.10]] The protection of Hungarian people's lives is our first priority, so we need to negotiate both in the West and in the East so that we can get reliable and effective vaccines as soon as possible and there is enough vaccine available. Hungary has therefore joined two more vaccination programmes, so Hungarian requirements have already been registered at the manufacturing company. We'd like to move forward on time as soon as the vaccine is available, so we'll start the vaccine registration campaign. Müller Cecília, National Chief of Staff, will contact pensioners in a letter to assess the needs, especially with them, as they are the most vulnerable age group. The vaccineinfo.gov.hu website has also been launched, where anyone can register, but first those who are involved in the defence and those who are at risk will be vaccinated. It's the only way to stop the virus from spreading. It's the only way to prevent a third wave. Of course, only vaccines that have been controlled and approved by the Hungarian Centre for Public Health can be used at home. The vaccine will be voluntary, so probably not everyone will take this opportunity. I would ask the left to try, for once, to put aside party policy logic and not to scare me with false data, but to protect people's lives first. But if you can't help me, at least don't slow down the defense. I would also draw your attention to the fact that they have a serious responsibility for their own sympathizers, since their health must also be protected. These are people's lives, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to understand this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-30	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-07-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are right when you say that the vaccine will be a long-term and reassuring solution. With regard to the vaccine, it must be noted that it will be free and voluntary in Hungary, and it is also very important to stress that every decision on any vaccine should come from anywhere, from the Hungarian professionals, and there is no reason to doubt the knowledge of Hungarian professionals. We have always given the world excellent scientists, excellent experts, that is the case, there is no reason to doubt their knowledge or their decisions. That is why I think that it is terribly foolish and irresponsible what part of the left and left-wing press does, namely that they are attacking the virus and attacking vaccine procurement. We can see the same thing we saw in the case of respirators: the left is attacking lifesaving procedures. I would like to stress that, in my view, this is the most inhuman and inscrutable action and activity of the last 30 years, so truly Gyurány. Therefore, I would like to ask the left with respect that they do not, once, at least once, act as responsible politicians, do not blindly follow their leader, Ference Gyurcsány, and stop this series of attacks, because what we are seeing from the left is that they would sacrifice the Hungarian people simply to gain political power. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Are you stupid, man?!]] On the other hand, all life matters to the government, and we do so. As far as vaccines are concerned, honourable Member, as you have mentioned, we are involved in all EU projects, but I regret to say that I do not know how else to say this, that we can see the lameness in Brussels, which we have seen in the case of respirators, which is that Brussels is still trying to get a respirator. Even though the epidemic has been going on for almost a year, they're still saying they're organizing the acquisition of the ventilator. I hope that this kind of slowness and inertia in relation to vaccines will not be typical or disappearing in Brussels. However, we can now see that the US producer Pfizer, which is one of the flagship manufacturers for EU projects, has stated, according to official EU information, that, for the first time, who knows for how long, there is a good chance that vaccine will only be delivered to the United States, or that the British might still be available and available, but not the EU Member States. However, we are, of course, involved in all the EU projects. With regard to China, I can tell you, Mr honourable Member, in this House, that we are in contact with three producers: one public and two private producers; it seems that the public producer is on the move. Within a few days, we hope that this manufacturer will send the documentation of the vaccine to Hungarian professionals, the National Institute of Pharmacy, and then the Hungarian experts will be able to study this documentation. If it is considered appropriate, then the next step can be the purchase, which will also require the opinion of the experts of the National Centre for Public Health, who will be examining the documentation on the vaccine to be delivered specifically to Hungary. It is also important to stress that I believe that this manufacturer shows a willingness to immediately deliver a significant quantity of vaccine to Hungary once the permits are in place. And, of course, the other two Chinese manufacturers are also being consulted, and we are also trying to push for the process there, based on the guidelines of Hungarian professionals. With regard to Russia, I can say, as is known, that as the first European country, we have been sent a vaccine sample and documentation. On the one hand, Hungarian experts are examining this in Hungary and, on the other hand, last week, a delegation of Hungarian experts has travelled to Russia, and there on the spot, on the production base, they have examined what exactly is happening in Russia. Their report is prepared by Hungarian professionals, and they appreciate what they see, of course, and we will move on with it. To sum up, we are there for every vaccine production process, but it must be said that it is only what has happened, which is why we need to be there for every vaccine producing country, precisely so that wherever there is a vaccine, we will bring it to Hungary as quickly and in the greatest amount as possible. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-32	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Menczer. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now ask Mr Vinnai, Mr Vice-President, to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-12-07-33	Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Mária Kállai, Fidesz; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; János Bencsik, independent; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, Zoltán Varga, DK; Gergely Arató, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2020-12-07-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:18 p.m., we're gonna start negotiating immediate questions. Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás granted the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office a right to reply. I ask Mr Szilágyi to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-12-07-35	We'll wait for Viktor Orbán to descend between us. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-36	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Members, they accept the person who is responding, or they ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-12-07-37	Thank you very much. We'll wait for Minister Kasler to descend. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-38	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. [[12.20]] Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How long will power fall to this level?" It's an address. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh, how funny!]] You have the floor, Congresswoman, because the Minister is here.
u2020-12-07-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, It's actions that define a person. Borkai, Kaleta, Szájer this Fidesz. My fellow members of the Government! You have shamed your own voters, because the Szájer case goes beyond the sexual orientation of the MEP. The problem is not a homosexual, the problem is what Joseph Szájer did, he fled the scene as a petty criminal; he did not immediately enter the field of action to accept the consequences that would otherwise have been appropriate. The problem is that József Szájer lies to his constituents. That's what he's been doing for 30 years, by the way. But the biggest problem is that you have put Hungary on the bench of shame in Europe. With these actions, it has been definitively proven that your policy consists solely of lies and incitement to hatred. These actions have clearly shown us that the Fundamental Law is a political product, not a service to you. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] And these acts have also shown that you are ignoring your own electorate. It's not in your policy to take responsibility for what they've done, but that's what they should do. Congratulations, good work. We see what Fidesz policy is all about: lies, hatred and crime. There's no Fidesz, we've learned that. [[Tamás Menczer: How many of Jobbik are there?]] So I respectfully ask Minister what else it takes to get them down from power and hold on to the truth instead of the gutters. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-12-07-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Sadly... [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am saddened to see that Jobbik does not only come from the point of view of a woman representing new roads, apologizing once again that Ferenc Gyurcsány wishes to be on the same list, but also from Ferenc Gyurcsány, a Member, before speaking, buys rhetorical courses. As to the specific points: I see a great difference between the cases you mentioned and the practices of the opposition, and this is said that both in Borkai and in Szájer, those responsible have taken the consequences of their actions and their public activities... [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: Because it was made public! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] They're retired. I don't know how the Kaleta case gets here, because in the case of Kaleta, we're talking about your eight-year-old diplomat in the service of your ally, so he was a Kaleta diplomat in the Gyurcsány government for eight years from 2002 onwards. So I can tell you to ask this question to Ferenc Gyurcsány. The only mistake we made was that all diplomats who served during the period of Ferenc Gyurcsány were not removed. It is possible to argue whether it is a mistake or not, I believe that they could have been, even if they were not the majority who did their job with honor, but if we had done so in this case, your ally's diplomat would certainly not have committed similar scandals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-42	Thank you, Minister. You have a rejoinder from the congresswoman.
u2020-12-07-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Then I suggest you write in the Fundamental Law that the congressman is a man and the congresswoman is a woman. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] And understand that this whole matter, the Szájer case, is not about us taking advantage of someone's sexual orientation to think about this, because the problem is the circumstances of József Szájer's actions, because he saw the light of day just when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán vetoes the budget of the European Union. [[Miklós Soltész: So?]] What does that mean? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What?]] You can be blackmailed. And a series of actions that you face every day could pose a serious national security risk. And Hungarian citizens can also face this. That's where we are today. That's your policy. And it should finally be seen that action has consequences. We opposition representatives will work to build a Hungary... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Where there is no place for exclusion, hatred...
u2020-12-07-44	Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-45	...but everyone's actions have consequences. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-46	Thank you very much. Rejoice with Minister Gulyás.
u2020-12-07-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and All I can say to your speech is that if I break down the Gyurcsány rhetoric, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Wow, weak!]] With the different consequences, you'll have nothing but to face consequences. All kinds of scandals on this political side have always had consequences. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: The one that came to light.]] On the other side, there's no consequence of shooting out eyes. Today, you support who you are against. There's no consequence of being an anti-Semite. They feel free to support candidates who have made anti-Semitic statements [[Bence of Turda: Szilárd Demeter!]] Which, in your background, [[Bence of Turda: Are you responding to Demeter Szilárd?]] We could even call it understandable. And there's no consequence of destroying this country with eight years of government, either, because you will immediately become your allies. So don't look here for consequences, because that's not typical of this side. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-48	Thank you, Minister Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What do you intend to do about vulnerable home buyers? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda authorized the Secretary of State to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-12-07-49	I accept, Mr. President.
u2020-12-07-50	You have the floor, Congressman Csaba Tóth.
u2020-12-07-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the last few weeks, every MP has received a letter from the victims of a house building in Zugló. They turned to us in their final despair, hoping to get help in their hopeless situation. The story began in 2009, because it was given a building permit in Zugló, in the area bordered by the Csömöri út, Öv utca and the Szugló circular railway line for the construction of a 171 and 85-bedroom condominium. The building permit was amended several times, which expired in 2018. Meanwhile, the builder's personality has changed several times. However, one thing has not changed: the buildings have not been completed, they have not been handed over to this day, despite the fact that the customers have paid the full or partial purchase price years ago, and their ownership has also been registered. However, the three-year delay is not the only problem that owners face. After the construction was financed as a buyer, the sales company is now trying to force the return of the apartments sold to them. The construction authority does not have any means of dealing with the severely failing builder. Buildings can stand there indefinitely, ruining the cityscape as a torso, and it is impossible for the authorities to take action to complete it. The injured parties therefore request that the Law on Construction be amended so that a builder who does not have a construction permit in force can be fined and there is no procedure in place to obtain a maintenance permit or a permit for entry into service. With these in mind, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: how do you intend to solve the case of the vulnerable, double-crossed home buyers? What do you intend to do to prevent such cases from occurring in the future? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-12-07-52	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Tóth. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-12-07-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to say that it is always false when a socialist Member speaks on the subject of buying a home or creating a home. [[12.30]] After all, it was you who stopped the housing subsidies, put the home buyers in a difficult position, and, at the time of their administration, they chased the Hungarian people into foreign exchange loans and currency traps. You also wanted to introduce real estate taxes and raise VAT. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, support for families and home creation are at the heart of the policy of the civil national government. That's why we introduced the family home-building discount in 2015. In the last five years, this has supported the home creation, access to home, and nearly half of it was the non-refundable CSOK. In the last five years, CSOK has played a role in almost one in five housing constructions and purchases. Until August 2020, 151 thousand families spent a total value of HUF 476 billion, which means that it can facilitate and support the housing of 632,000 Hungarians. Honourable Congressman, We will continue and further strengthen the family home-building system. In this context, a number of new measures will be put in place as of 1 January 2020. Honourable Congressman, The specific case you mentioned is indeed a regrettable story, which is why we always ask and encourage those who wish to buy the property to take the utmost care and to seek legal and professional assistance. In this case, however, the Hungarian court has the right to decide, to pass a judgment, and to compensate for the legitimate damage which you have spoken for. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Csaba Tóth is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2020-12-07-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this is not the answer the home buyers were expecting from you. What you've said about the specific case is a very weak reference, because these people have done everything they can over the years. They filed a lawsuit, filed a lawsuit in the Pest County Attorney General's Office, the Hungarian Competition Authority initiated a supervisory procedure, filed a complaint at the Budapest Police Headquarters, sub-contractors filed a complaint, set up a consumer association; so they seized all the tools available to solve their problem in some way. And it says that our great efforts for many years have so far unfortunately failed to deliver, we have not obtained our paid-up property. Many of us are at risk of a lifetime of wealth gained from our work; and then we could become homeless because of an apartment purchased from an immoral investor. So it doesn't comfort them, Mr. Secretary, to tell them to go to court. That doesn't solve the problem. What I can continue to ask you on your behalf is what you want to do in order to solve such problems and not to happen in the future. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your specific reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, is the word.
u2020-12-07-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We agree that this is a terrible case, but let me stress it once again, even if this does not say anything to the socialists, that the government, like everyone else, must respect that this is a private matter. So in this case, the independent Hungarian court is also entitled to decide and judge. We trust that a decision will be made which will compensate all those who have been wronged and those who have been in this unfortunate situation. But, honourable Member, allow me not to go without saying that, after 2002, it was you, the socialists, who stopped the home creation programme, stopped the family tax relief and drove Hungarian families into foreign exchange debt. Honourable Congressman, Look for trouble with you, too. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-58	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister without a wallet for national politics, ecclesiastical affairs and nationalities, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister:. Christian values and Christian freedom in the Orbán government? It's an address. Due to the absence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, the notary, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or he asks the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, for his answer in person.
u2020-12-07-59	I'll take it.
u2020-12-07-60	You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-61	At the same time, I regret that Deputy Prime Minister is not personally available, because from him, whose political activity outside the helicopter reindeer hunt is primarily represented by political Christianity, I would have expected that if he had not responded to the press, at least here in Parliament, to respond to his opinion on the Szájer case; how he sees him sitting in the government of Viktor Orbán as President of the otherwise undetectable party called KDNP, how this corresponds to the Christian values and Christian freedom he represents. For what did you write after József Szájer's resignation, when you obviously knew why he had to resign? That he played a crucial role in enabling Hungarian civil conservatism and Christian democracy to occupy their rightful place. Now we know where your bourgeois conservatism and Christian democracy should be: the gutters. And don't tell me that József Szájer apologized and resigned because he did it when he was exposed; when he got caught on the gutters with the drugs in his backpack. While your background people have acknowledged that they have known for decades the way your representative has lived. There are a lot of questions to answer, but the most important thing is why you force people to hide, to escape, to be ashamed of. [[Dr. Pál Völner: So what's the problem?]] Surely there can be a gay man in the government, in your faction. Then why are they hiding them? Why can't they stand up straight? Maybe so they can be blackmailed? I'd like to ask you, is this your Christianity? Is it Christianity when friends take public property? Is your press a Christian who knowingly lies and slanders political rivals? And a Christian is the government that wants to tell everyone how to live, who to love, and how to have children? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is this political Christianity? Is this the Christian democracy?
u2020-12-07-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Harvester. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2020-12-07-63	Honourable Congressman, I remember when you were on the government, you were steering, and you were laughing about a disgusting joke at the House of Terror when you were mocking Jews and Jewish people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right. They were talking to his driver.]] But what are the other facts? What our fellow Member József Szájer did is not fit in the values of our political community. His 30-year work will not be forgotten and denied, but his action is not acceptable and cannot be defended. After what happened, he made the only right decision when, with an apology, he resigned his seat in the European Parliament and quit Fidesz. His decision has been noted. That is what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, and so do we. In addition, on December 2, József Szájer quit Fidesz. On December 3, József Szájer gave up his title as a citizen of the city of Sopron. On 4 December, József Szájer resigned as Board member of the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. He took it all. The question is, what did you do? You have a mayor, a left-wing mayor in Pest County who's in a sex scandal. He confirmed it, even asked for an invoice. He was silent. And the left didn't call for resignation, he hasn't resigned since. Kispest: drug addicts who talk openly about corruption, such as Csaba Lackner, say it sarcastically: if you don't earn 100 million forints a year, you're stupid or you're telling your fellow parties. You're silent, you're not resigned, you're part of the left coalition right now. Zsolt Gréczy, DK, resigned from his obscene and disgusting messages, but he made himself a victim. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Like he couldn't help it. In return, I will continue this thought process. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-64	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. It's Mr. Harvester's word.
u2020-12-07-65	Luke's Gospel tells you not to judge, and you will not be judged. [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Secretary of State, If you didn't think that you could require anyone in this country to live, if you didn't think that you could determine who could have children, who could be a father and who could be a mother, if you didn't think that you had the right to speak of a moral high horse to everyone in this country, we would certainly judge Mr. Szájer and his other party mates' moral failures or even their sins more lightly. [[12.40]] But there is a sin that you will not be forgiven of this country. It's a crime to drive this country into hatred, a lie, just like you just did. I've counted five times you lied in this brief comment. I would draw your attention to the eighth commandment if you consider yourself a Christian.
u2020-12-07-66	Thank you, Mr. Notary. The Secretary of State shall have a rejoinder. [[Gergely Gulyás: Jobbikos, go!]]
u2020-12-07-67	So who can be a mother, who can be a father, the biology tells you. Don't judge. Then why did you speak now? [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties. å Bence Tordai intervenes.]] By the way, if you really wanted to apologize to this nation, this country, then let's just say you should have apologized a long time ago for eyeballs, you should have apologized a long time ago for beating old and retired people to death. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're lying again!]] Zsolt Gréczy should not be saved any longer, and now more recently.... [[Gergely Arató: All lawsuits have been won by Zsolt Gréczy...! Tamás Menczer intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-12-07-68	Mr. Messenger!
u2020-12-07-69	So, Gergely Harvesto, I'm gonna ask you not to judge me, okay? Because he just read it from Luke's evangelist. But the IX. They wouldn't want to play Zsolt Gréczy back in the district. I could describe the facts that, for example, when a lot of people are suffering in the world, you are making a chamomile, you are sorry for what you said, just because the country is not in this issue, unfortunately, you said that in the spring, when there were few dead compared to other countries. After that, you dare to stand up and tell us not to judge? ! Hold on a second, Congressman. Shame on you! [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-70	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? In response to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, gave him the right to reply. I ask the Member, Mr Group leader, whether he will accept the person of the responding party or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-12-07-71	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-72	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: When will the deficiencies be remedied? Mr. Minister, for your absence, you have authorized Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer personally.
u2020-12-07-73	I'll take it, thank you.
u2020-12-07-74	You have the floor, Krisztina Hohn.
u2020-12-07-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you about testing teachers. This news has been released that the teachers' testing has been stopped. The Prime Minister has also said that. However, we would be interested to know when kindergartens, schools and teachers working here are going to start testing again, how they are going to be able to meet family members safely, if they meet the families of teachers during the holidays here in the first place, and think about giving teachers a 100% pension, as it is likely that many people are not going to take the test because they think they are asymptomatic, and if they get caught up in the test, they are going to be quarantined, which means 60 percent pay. I heard that later there is an investigation that will determine whether the remaining 40 percent can be obtained. Couldn't this process be simplified so that teachers who do their jobs wouldn't be in such an unworthy position? In addition, I would be interested to know for what reason the tests were stopped, or whether they knew this in advance, or whether it was an ad hoc decision, because it was previously said that there would be tests like this every week. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-12-07-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, we would like to thank everyone who participated in this very large work, the tests, and the teachers, the kindergarten teachers who themselves were cooperating, and the medical students, the arts students and everyone else who worked in the administration, who were able to carry out this large targeted mass testing, which included not only teachers but also other staff working at the school, precisely to get a more comprehensive picture. About 72-74 percent of those involved in the test were involved, and 2.3 percent of those who showed a positive test, which is a low number, if we project it to the entire affected circle, so also to those who work in this profession but have not been tested, is 1.64 percent positivity. The results of large group tests were similar in other neighbouring countries, Slovakia, Bavaria. So it was clear that it was not very high or even higher than the average that could be said in other countries or in Hungary as a whole in relation to coronal virus positivity. In relation to the allowance, who has been sick in the course of his work, a hundred percent of the sick is due. As you said, this is a two-step process, you will receive 60 percent automatically, and then, if the government office process is completed, and we strive to make this happen as quickly as possible and as easily as possible, the remaining 40 percent of the salaries will arrive in the second step. Overall, there were 181,506 people who tested themselves and had a positive sample of 4436 people, and the operational tribe will decide how to continue this test later. However, I think the result of this could also have been reassuring for many, since there were no points in schools before, and it is now apparent that there is not a very high rate of positive tests in schools. Now we're going to continue testing where the government officials in contact with the clients are working. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn deserves the rejoinder.
u2020-12-07-79	Thank you very much. Although there have been few teachers on this test, fortunately, and I really do not want this disease to happen to anyone, I still have to ask that if I have to switch to digital education, and especially to disadvantaged areas, where in many cases there are no Internet or adequate digital tools available, every school will have as many digital tools as possible to give out to children, if necessary, to specific classes or even to whole schools, and that children who may be behind in learning because of this transition will think about launching a specific catching-up programme for them. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári also has the right to a rejoinder.
u2020-12-07-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is indeed an important question that raises, because a digital education can never be fully as valuable as a personal relationship in the classroom. It is very important that we defend ourselves here with the highest possible level of protection against the coronal virus epidemic, but at the same time it is also important that we keep all the jobs and, in addition, students can achieve the best possible performance in schools. In Hungary, the conditions for learning are above 90 percent at home in this area as well, a quiet room, a school computer. We are at the level of Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, Germany or England, and we are also ahead of countries such as France, Spain or Italy. Schools have given families a lot of computers, hundreds of thousands of digital devices. But indeed, as you say, it is very important, especially for those who are more behind in classroom education to have such a plus. At the end of last year's school year, there was also a two-week period when schools could focus on this through the organisation of school directors, and this will be a very important task for them later. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-82	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Prime Minister, because of his absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given his right to reply to the Prime Minister's Office. [[12.50]] I ask the Member, the notary, to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-12-07-83	I'll take it.
u2020-12-07-84	You have the floor, Congressman Bence Tordai, notary.
u2020-12-07-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Mr. Secretary. Viktor Orbán is lying. Viktor Orbán is lying about the three most important cases that the public is discussing today. Viktor Orbán lies about the disease management, the numbers that are published day by day and week by week are liars. This weekend, you exposed yourselves about this so-called map update scandal. Everyone can know from now on how these figures are produced, which will be published by Viktor Orbán's operational tribe. Orbán also lies about the Szájer case. He lied when he said it was new to him, and no one knew anything about it when their old comrade Zsolt Bayer confessed that it was an open secret 30 years ago. And Viktor Orbán is also the one who regularly receives intelligence reports. But more importantly, there's a huge system lie about it in Fidesz. The Szájer Fundamental Law does not protect sexual minorities against discrimination, József Szájer's party and Viktor Orbán's party launch a homophobic campaign of hatred against sexual minorities. It's a huge system lie. Orbán also lies about the veto because he says that the reason he does not sign the agreement on the seven-year budget and the recovery fund is because he would make Hungary an immigrant country and that he disagrees with the representatives of the other Member States, heads of government and state on migration. Jávor Benedek, European politician of Dialogue, published a document which is a draft agreement of the European Parliament and of the European Council, in which there is no mention of migration, migrants or, by the way, George Soros or the Hungarian opposition. It is about the rule of law, about not stealing the money that EU taxpayers are putting together. Viktor Orbán gives up one million forints per family, and he lies about that. What will be the consequence?
u2020-12-07-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2020-12-07-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, you mentioned important issues in your speech, which we could even debate in substance, if the Member did not express himself in the old repulsive style which, by the way, is his own. Yet, I try not to deal with these statements, but with meaningful statements. What you said here about József Szájer is that it is not true at all. So today everyone in Hungary, as long as they abide by the laws, lives as they please, has the sexual identity that the government has in this way, just as it doesn't want to interfere with private matters or matters of life to the slightest extent. Another question is that just as there is a clear rule about what marriage is in most countries in the world, we also have a conviction about it, which is recorded in the Fundamental Law. The same as in most countries around the world [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Even in liberal countries, there is a family support system, and the good Lord created man to have children for men and women, which is why state benefits are attached. But who else says what they are, how they live their lives, what they do in their own time and in their private lives, this government has never interfered in any form whatsoever, nor will it interfere again. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) The amendment of the Constitution does not have any say in this.
u2020-12-07-88	[[Ringing the bell:]] Mr. Messenger!
u2020-12-07-89	The fact that the mother and father are growing is a man, and it follows that, although an interesting form of dialogue is when you interject, it follows that the good Lord created man in this way, and so far the Dialogue, but no major parties can change that. As far as veto is concerned, you are either deliberately not telling the truth, or you are unable to understand a relatively simple logical conclusion. The fact that, in any case, any sanctions could be imposed by the Council in respect of a category not defined in the rule of law is obviously unacceptable, because the issue of migration, as well as gender, has been defined as a matter of rule of law by the European Union and even by the relevant Commissioners. Thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-90	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you have the opportunity to return your answer, notary Tordai. Congressman!
u2020-12-07-91	So you're saying that there will be no consequences for Orbán's lies in the most important cases, and neither will fraud nor theft. Then let me ask you another question. Do you know what is common in Viktor Orbán, József Szájer, Zsolt Borkai, or even the defendants of pedophiles in the Fidesz area, Kaleta, their deputy mayor or his old comrade? It is that they think they are above the laws and the morals, even though they live only illegally and immorally. This is how you live, and the consequence is not enough, the Hungarian people will not be satisfied with giving up a position [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] Because no one cares about József Szájer's political career. The real consequence would be to stop the homophobic campaign of hatred by stopping the continuous public spending and the system built up for this, and it would be the right consequence if Viktor Orbán resigned. Of course, we can wait for the 2022 answer.
u2020-12-07-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Minister.
u2020-12-07-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If someone were to do the things that you are now accusing the current government of, we hope there will be serious consequences, even if we have conflicting experiences. The destruction of this country, which was done in this country during the governing of the Democratic Coalition, has no consequence beyond the fact that today you, as allies of this party, are trying to gain power together with Ferenc Gyurcsány. However, it is safe to acknowledge that when someone speaks nonsense from the opposition, there is no consequence, and I wish the Member a good job as well. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-94	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What is the real goal? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-12-07-95	I'll take it.
u2020-12-07-96	You have the floor, Congressman László Salacz.
u2020-12-07-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, While the governments of Europe are struggling with the Crown Virus and the economic crisis, the most important element on the agenda of the EU institutions should be the agreement on the next seven-year budget, the European Commission announced a new migration action plan last week. This includes no less than the need for 34 million migrants to give housing, aid and voting rights. This is not news, we know this proposal well from 2015, György Soros himself published it on his website, anyone could read it. It consists of six points, including exactly what the Commission is now proposing. They need to bring in migrants, housing and money. We can remember that Soros wrote that each year they should be given EUR 15,000, which he would be willing to lend, so that we would literally pay him interest forever. More than once in the last five years, Hungarian people have made it clear, including in a referendum and in a parliamentary election, that they do not want Hungary to be an immigrant country. We've been fighting for five years not to let others tell us who to live with. Now they're going to come up with a new instrument that they're going to put in the robe of the rule of law, but it's actually about being able to force things on us without our consent that they can't otherwise do under EU treaties. Dear Secretary of State, It's very clear what you're playing at, but the blind can't see the connection. However, the number of EU leaders from Commissioner Dalli to Vice-President Barley is less shy and clearly stated. Is there still someone who denies that? Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-98	Thank you very much, Congressman Salacz. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2020-12-07-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Hungary demands the maintenance of the current rule that no Member State can be forced to do what it does not want by a majority decision. Such is the European Commission's immigration proposal in December 2020, perhaps the toughest period of the second wave of the pandemic, which openly confronts us with what the European Union wants, what Brussels wants. According to the Soros plan, he really wants to bring in 34 million migrants, or at least 34 million migrants, and he wants to give housing, aid and citizenship. [[13.00]] So we can connect between the fact that there is a proposal that deals with general principle issues, takes away the right of resistance from us, and then they bring in a proposal that we have always opposed. Ladies and gentlemen, We can see what's going on here. They want to ensure that the negative Hungarian and Polish positions on migration can be defeated by a simple majority vote. That's the story. Of course, it's a linguistic rule of law, money, support, but we're actually talking about extortion. And the driving force behind this whole story is that they can force immigrants and other rules on Poland and Hungary that do not match our culture and identity. The end of this story may be that even though we have fought for years not to make Hungary an immigrant country, we have struggled to tell them who we live with in Hungary, even though we have said that we do not want to become a migrant country, now they will come up with a legal instrument, a rubber paragraph that they would use for this. Hungary insists that the economic issue of the budget and the recovery fund must be separated from the extortional rule of law regulation leading to political disputes. The Hungarian Parliament also ordered the government to do so. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-100	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. You have a chance to answer back, Congressman Salacz.
u2020-12-07-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Let's not sell bagcats: let's not just talk about the West, let's talk a little bit about our country. The Hungarian left from Gyurcsány to Jakab is working on how to implement the Soros plan behind the EU flags. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] They start from what is, by the way, the Western left-wing political parties own, that immigrants will vote for the people who brought them in. This 34 million migrant votes can decide the political battles of Western Europe for a long time, and I must say that it can make a final decision. The Hungarian left also hopes that, sooner or later, 300-400,000 migrants will enter Hungary, who will help them with the government. [[Defiance and interruptions from the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]] What the Hungarian people want is that Hungary will be good at it, nobody cares, especially the Hungarian left, but we can get used to it. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-102	Thank you very much, Congressman Salacz. Secretary of State Völner has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-12-07-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian people have repeatedly stated that they do not ask for mass immigration, they do not ask for the break-up of the traditional concept of family, the supranational government. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] The Hungarian left is thinking about implementing the Soros plan in Hungary as well, i.e. bringing in the migrants, who would vote for them. What the European Union is trying to do to us now is blackmail in a legal robe. We Hungarians, on the other hand, know and recognize such attempts at blackmail, because we have been involved in it so many times. At the same time, it is very interesting that the Hungarian left never supports Hungarian sovereignty, it is a very interesting phenomenon that Jobbik has found a new owner and has entered the Soros-Jolly. Can we ask them, as Minister Sándor Fazekas once asked, "How do you like mercenaries?" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-104	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: When and how can free vaccination against the Crown Virus be requested? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer in person. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Yes, I accept. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The year 2020 brought great difficulties for the world and also for Hungary, as no one thought that such a pandemic would be sweeping through, which has indeed many victims everywhere. We can also see that the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to save people's lives, to control the epidemic. Allow me, on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, to thank healthcare workers, doctors, nurses for the superhuman work they do, the heroic position they do every day to save and cure as many of our fellow citizens as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we see that the epidemic is not quiet anywhere, and it is very important at this time to strengthen the measures that had to be taken in the event of an emergency, it is important to thank our fellow citizens for complying with the rules, and it is important, of course, to comply with these rules, because these decisions are about their lives. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The prognosis is that by December, the peak of deaths and the peak of diseases will also occur, so we all know and look with hope towards the negotiations and the agreements that can bring the solution to the clear and effective management of the epidemic that there will be vaccination, there will be a vaccine. Hungary and the Hungarian government are negotiating both in the East and in the West and placing orders. It is very important that it is a fast and reliable vaccine, and we need to get a vaccine as soon as possible and as reliable as possible. Dear Secretary of State, I have three questions. One: according to the vaccination plan, who can get the free vaccination first? When and how can older fellow humans demand vaccination? And finally, on the basis of the Pfizer case, will there be enough vaccine for the widespread vaccination of the population? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Mr. Team Leader, Dear House, The government is really trying to find all the potential sources in the case of the vaccine. So we did in the spring, when we successfully defended ourselves in the first wave, we were able to find ventilators and protective equipment even from underground, or we were able to bring separate machines to Hungary from the other side of the earth so that we could protect the lives of all Hungarian people, the health of all Hungarian people. We will do no different on the issue of the vaccine, we will find every possible source, even if the Hungarian opposition is continuing to give false publicity in this regard, and this will help people to gain confidence in the vaccine. If anything, then it would be a common responsibility for all parliamentary parties, for all politicians, to encourage people to trust in these vaccines, in those which, of course, the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority is examining, and to believe that the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority can test any product on a world level as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. On the other hand, we hear from left-wing politicians, such as the number of people who died, that unfortunately the country is not in bad shape in this issue, and that is why Gergely Arató had to apologize to our fellow Member. As soon as the vaccine arrives, we want it to arrive as much as possible. Obviously, there are protective health professionals, chronic patients, for whom it is especially important that they receive the vaccine as soon as possible. This is why the separate website, Váltainfo.gov.hu, is launched, which allows you to register in advance, so we send you out to all elderly pensioners, who are already receiving the pension monthly, a special letter in which they can apply by mail and free of charge, to register in advance to assess the needs as soon as possible. But we ask the Hungarian left-wing parties not to concern themselves with making Hungarian people insecure about the reliability of the vaccine, but to try to overcome their current political interests on this issue and try to help with the defence, if this has not been very successful so far. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-108	Thank you very much for your answer. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Mr. István Simicskó, leader of the group. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. I don't think I need to confirm here how much people are looking forward to the vaccine, they have every hope for the vaccine. They also see who they can count on in the trouble, see that the government is doing everything in its power to get the vaccine as soon as possible. I was at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the invitation of Minister Szijjártó, when we could also negotiate with the Russian Minister for Health, a Hungarian medical delegation could travel out and study how to produce the vaccine in Russian laboratories. I am saddened to experience that, while vaccination has already started in Britain today, mass vaccinations have been organised, effectively, and until then we see hesitation in Brussels, and obviously we can see the same at home from the left side, they do not help to defend themselves. The Hungarian people can count on the Hungarian government. I trust that an effective vaccine will be available as soon as possible, and this will bring the protection of Hungarian people's lives and security to all of us. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-12-07-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go. [[13.10]]
u2020-12-07-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, It is well demonstrated, as you said, in Brussels, that the delivery of ventilators was promised for 52 weeks in the spring; it would obviously have been very irresponsible if Hungary had exposed itself to this, and that was why direct procurement was important. Hungary has already committed 12 million coronal virus vaccines to this, we have also committed the quantities available from AstraZeneca, Janssen and Pfizer, on the one hand, and we are also negotiating with Russian, Israeli and Chinese developers. These vaccines, when they arrive in Hungary, must also be completely safe and effective if they are submitted to people. And we reject it most strongly when, once again, on the part of the Hungarian left, the voices that say that they do not trust anything that is Hungarian, and here in Parliament, they demand that we build not on the decision of the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority, but only on the decision of the EU pharmaceutical authority when we talk about vaccination; they do not trust anything that is Hungarian, including the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority, but, believe me, it is world-class. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-112	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet responsible for the management of national assets:. When will the Csepelian heat return to its full track? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy gave the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Szabolcs Szabó:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask an immediate question on an issue that affects about 50,000 people every day with the Csepel HÉV every day, because it is happening that we are travelling, we just can't, because due to the renovation of the Kvassay Bridge we have to take a replacement bus for about half a year. In fact, one feels good about such discomfort because he knows that later he will be able to travel safer and in better conditions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Then why do you ask?]] Already in the summer, however, news has come up that there will be no normal transport after 1 January. Then I went to the BFK, I was reassured, everything will be fine, the MÁV-HÉV Zrt., which operates the HÉV, even put on an animation film like this, that if Christmas passes, everything will be fine, and the HÉV transport will start again, and I would not rate the word joke right now. Then everyone's calmed down. Then, a few weeks ago, the news came again that transport would not be restarted. MÁV-HÉV Zrt. Now he says that they do not comment on this, this is their official communication, and the BFK, the Budapest Development Centre, does not answer the questions. Do I think that a large part of these 50,000 people deserve an open answer then: will transport restart or do we still have to take a replacement bus? If we have to continue to take the replacement bus, why, specifically, for how long? I'd like a specific day, please. I'm used to measuring this almost every day, during a trip, it's an extra 10-15 minutes, because we travel twice with the HÉV, it's 20-30 minutes plus-time on a daily basis, so that's not short. I think the Csepel people deserve a clean, straight, open answer. And I'm interested to know who's responsible for the fact that we've actually been tricked, because if everything's true, we'll still have to take the replacement bus. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-12-07-115	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Your question is indeed justified, it affects a lot of people. It's known, and it turns out from your question, that the government has decided to renovate and support the Kvassay Bridge, the Kvassay HÉV Bridge. In this proposal, which underpins this decision, we ourselves have stated as a key government objective that, during the time of the bridge refurbishing track lock, the development of the Budapest Student City-South Town Gate should also be implemented in the region in order to disrupt the transport of the capital and Csepel's travelling population for as little time as possible by coordinating the two construction works. The track lock for the restoration of the Kvassay bridge was established for the period from 15 May to 30 December 2020 and was also approved by the designated implementation builder of the National Athletic Centre. This is therefore progressing according to a timetable, and if this were the only development, the track lock would cease by 30 December. That's the answer to why. The duration of the track lock necessary for the investment of the National Athletic Centre exceeds the track closure period in force due to the renovation of the Kvassay Bridge, thus exceeding 30 December. According to the technical schedule submitted by the successful tenderer in the procurement procedure, the technical consultation on the track closure period is ongoing. So to your particular question of why I can answer, but to which I cannot answer correctly now, I will give a concrete answer, as this is currently being discussed. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-116	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-117	Thank you very much. Thank you for the answer, but with all due respect, I think you will admit that it is not an acceptable answer for the Csepelians, that although it was said that transport would return after 31 December, it turned out that it was not possible and that they could not say when. So how long is this gonna last, at least, roughly? Somebody tell me that! And I say, not in my name, but in the name of the Csepelians, that on the one hand, we would have expected that when this came out, they would stand up in front of the press and the Csepelians and tell us, and we don't have to guess, and someone apologizes for that, because nobody apologizes and apologizes for the fact that we have to suffer this every day. And tell him that we won't have to wait for metro 5 to be built, and that's the only way we'll be able to get in further from this temporary terminal, so there won't be such a thing as getting into Boráros tér by bus for many years, so I'm asking you to promise me that. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy in return. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-12-07-119	My dear fellow Member, I believe that because of the structure of the National Athletics Center, there is no need to apologize to the capital or to the Csepelians. Indeed, this second great development is such an inconvenience, and from here I ask for the understanding of the Csepelians, but with your permission I do not apologize for such a great improvement. But the specific answer to your specific question is: if a track lock is necessary due to the construction of the athletic centre, there is no obstacle to the fact that after that the HÉV will return to Boráros Square on the surface until the underground track is completed, so the fixed track traffic will be ensured. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-120	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the debate on immediate questions after the 60th minute. Dear Parliament, With all this in mind, we can only continue our work after a short break. I declare that Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, is on his way, but because of the order of order and the order of immediate questions, we will wait for the Secretary of State and, of course, the time frame for immediate questions will not change, so we will go through; we have, of course, stopped the clock here. Thank you very much. Ten-minute break. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] (Recess: 13.18-13.21) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Gergely Arató)
u2020-12-07-121	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State has arrived. I'll announce that we'll continue our work. We salute the Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, So, given our time frame, we extend the duration of immediate questions by three minutes. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás and Tibor Nunkovics, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How long will power fall to this level?" It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Hondas. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, When you think there's nothing down there, there's a Szájer coming, and it turns out there is. But there's one thing that's really not lower than that, that's your hypocrisy. Think back to Borkai: an exemplary family man, just, you know, orgies with wine and Black Paco, they don't cancel. Gábor Kaleta: secretly bringing home the pedophile ambassador, well punished for 540,000 forints. For you, a pedophile criminal is worth 540,000 forints, and a bag of potatoes is worth 4.5 million. That's something to think about. And then there's József Szájer, who said that he's been fighting for a long time, that what's going on in current politics is already on the ground, both in Hungary and in the EU. You acknowledge this, commend him in a Facebook post, praise him for his Christian and conservative values and values, and that he founded all of this, and, in fact, let us not forget, he is the parent of our Fundamental Law, which may raise doubts once again. The worst part is, you all knew about this. You keep lying, misleading, protecting orgies, paedophiles, and Spider-Man practicing. We don't know how many skeletons there are in the closet, Mr. Secretary, but I'm sure you know that. Let's go first. Last week, I proposed that there should be a mandatory drug test in Parliament for Members of Parliament and government officials, for everyone who, by the way, manifests himself in the interests of the country and in the interests of the Hungarian people. I think it would be essential to clean up public life in this way. That's what we're gonna do. And my question to you is that the government can support this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-123	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-124	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you so much for your patience, and I'm sorry I had to wait. I see that we are actually continuing the speeches before the agenda, which is not a problem, which is why we are here. But then I have to say once again that our political community from the political community of the Left, which, unfortunately, you are to be included in. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The difference is that we have consequences when someone does something unacceptable. This was the case with József Szájer. I also think that we need to go intellectually to the point of separating individual sins from the representation of important matters, and such an important issue is, by the way, the protection of the sovereignty and independence of our country, the establishment of a constitutional legal framework for this. The day-to-day battle that is happening is taking place on the European Union front, and it is about whether it is possible to blackmail our country with budget money on a political, ideological basis. We believe that, regardless of political affiliation, the answer to this question is no, and we would like it to be a point of agreement that goes beyond party policy logic. Unfortunately, on your part, we have not yet experienced any support. In the case of drug liberalisation and drug testing, I see a double standard here. You are in an alliance with political forces that want to declare full drug liberalisation in Hungary, not just here in the House, but everywhere. We promote zero tolerance to drugs, and the framework for that is right now. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-125	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. That wasn't the question! My question was that if we were to submit a mandatory drug test, it would be supported by the ruling party, because why wouldn't it support it? If you have nothing to fear and to hide, please support this. Let's clean up public life. Just think: is there a workplace where you can work under the influence of mind-altering? Is it possible for someone to take drugs while driving a car? All exclusion factors [[Zoltán Tessely: You'll be in big trouble!]] in these areas. Then it must be especially so in the Hungarian Parliament. I therefore urge you to be the representatives of the Jobbik who will be the first to submit to this test, and before I submit, I must say that I am past it, I am going to pass a negative test, and so I will present it with this knowledge. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-127	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I thank the Member for his testimony, and I welcome it with pleasure and comfort. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I wish Szájer had confessed 30 years ago.]] However, there are millions of people in Hungary who can do responsible work without confirming this every day with a drug test. But if you don't agree with that, then, of course, we support your efforts in this regard. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I just wanted to draw attention to the hypocrisy that, indeed, in the context of a scandalous case, political capital can be used. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You guys keep doing this.]] But in the meantime, fighting to be added to a common opposition list in 2022, where there are only political forces other than you that want more stringent drug policies than drug liberalisation, widespread drug liberalisation, that's more than a reverse. It is not for us to think about it, but for you to consider your position. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-129	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, What are you doing now and why is Minister Miklós Kásler answering? After 2010, you created a gigantic ministry, the Ministry of Human Resources, responsible for higher education, public education, social area, pension system, culture, family policy and health care. We told you when this big organization was set up that it wasn't going to work, because it's a very important department. Then we saw that after the appointment of Mr. Miklós Kásler, areas were continuously taken from Minister. László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, was the first to receive higher education and vocational training, and then, when the first wave of the epidemic broke out, we saw the whole ministry falling apart. First of all, Péter Szijjártó took over the acquisition of assets and sent raiders and scouts around the world and spent 300 billion forints We don't know what it's for. [[Tamás Menczer: To Mai?]] [[13.30]] Then, in September, Katalin Novák was appointed Minister without a wallet, and Katalin Novák took family policy from the Ministry. Meanwhile, in May we saw Sándor Pintér gaining more influence in health care: he ordered a study on how healthcare was transformed, and last week Sándor Pintér, referring to the whole epidemic situation, got hospital transformation and health transformation. Sándor Pintér calls political parties, professional organisations to the six-party negotiations. I have one question, Mr. Secretary: what is Miklós Kásler doing now, why does he answer at all? Without a second wallet [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Their minister's name is Miklós Kásler. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-12-07-131	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When you did not even think about the fight against the epidemic on the left, Minister Miklós Kásler, who is also the Minister of Health, drew the attention of both the government and the public, and set up the first bodies to gather information on both the nature of the epidemic and the possibility of protection; then the operational tribe was established, led by Minister Sándor Pintér, together with Minister Sándor Kásler. So you were talking about combating the coronal virus epidemic when you were still dealing with completely different topics when your politicians were talking about Jávor Benedek as a relatively inexpensive, harmless epidemic, the threat of the coronal virus is being greatly exaggerated by the media, and I could still quote you when you were basing on the importance of this epidemic. Miklós Kásler and the other members of the government and members of the operational tribe have already organised the activities of health and other authorities in order to protect against the virus, honourable Member [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Almost succeeded! And the flu shots for everyone...]] And that's how it's been ever since. In the first wave, we were able to defend successfully and effectively. One of the main guarantees of this was that we started the defense in time and prepared for the second wave during the summer. [[Intercom from the benches of opposition parties: You didn't do anything!]] whether there are protective equipment, new procedures, changes in the operating order of schools, increased disinfection, or a body temperature measurement in schools at the time of entry, by imposing a prohibition on visits both in health institutions and in social institutions at an early stage. They all contributed to the ability to protect people's health and the lives of people, and they were a large part of Miklós Kásler's human resource minister. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-133	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-134	You know, Secretary of State, they didn't defend themselves well, and they didn't prepare for the second wave this summer. There's no minister for health care today. All we see is that Szijjártó, Palkovics is now responsible for health care, and Mihály Varga is now in line, Sándor Pintér, and the most important area has no ministry and no minister. Mr. Secretary. There is no health care in Hungary today, healthcare does not work. Based on Covid, you just shut down the health care system. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál:]] If someone wants to see a doctor today, they can only take their child to the private sector, and they can get into the health care system themselves. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] Secretary of State, we have been demanding for years that you have an independent Ministry of Health and that you be a competent specialist in the ministry. What is Miklós Kasler even doing? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm gonna ask you again. [[The president's ringing again.]] Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-07-135	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I ask you not to say such things, because even his opponents and his political opponents acknowledge that if anyone has experience in Hungarian health care as a doctor, as a hospital manager, he does. Even on your side, even your leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has said that he medically acknowledges what Miklós Kásler did. Don't tell me that Lajos Korózs or anyone on the opposition side or anywhere could have more expertise. Excuse me, you have failed to get one doctor to the parliament on the whole left. Hungarian health care is so important to you. There's not a single doctor-educated congressman, not since the first term... [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: You have a secretary of state who answers... This is not professional.... You're kidding.]] Not since the first term in Parliament. There are more on the Fidesz-KDNP website, and Miklós Kásler was one of the most respected doctors in Hungary, thanks to his decades of career, honourable Member. And I find what you said here about the Hungarian doctors and nurses to be outrageous as if the procedural provision had been modified directly, that the surgeries that could be delayed, which do not pose a life-threatening risk, could be delayed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they do not represent a significant deterioration in health, they would be done later. In other countries, I'm sorry, not even metastatic cancer. [[The president's ringing again.]] they can already cure in hospitals, say in France, compared to this in Hungary, these benefits continue to flow. Appreciation for Hungarian doctors and nurses. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-137	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. National Security Risk? It's an address. Minister Tamás Menczer appointed Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, to respond to his absence. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Regarding the fall of József Szájer, I would like to start by saying that I have no idea what kind of party he attended or what his sexual orientation is. I'd be the last one to do that. It has never been so important to the sentence that we say so many times, and you try to confront it so many times that it is his job to live his life and to love whom he loves, and neither does this government, as no one else has any say in it. As an adult gay man, I have so many problems with this thing that he has been involved in the leadership of a party, Fidesz, which has been in opposition and has spent so much of his time in actions and hack campaigns against the LGBTQ community for the past ten years, and in the last six months alone, we have had two, whether we are talking about adoption or so-called Article 33. It would be possible to talk long about how the Christian-Conservative ideology, which has been spoken on the steps, was spit in the face of József Szájer's action, just when his own government is trying to shove down everyone's throats about how to live, how to love, how to start a family [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] And we're family. But I don't really want to talk about that right now. I want to talk about another aspect of this. The problem with József Szájer is not how he lives his life or what his sexual orientation is, but that by hiding it, he was a national security risk. He was a national security risk because he became extorted, even blackmailed, by his dear wife, no matter how much they may not be in a close relationship. You, the government, had to know about all this because, on the one hand, they told us that 30 years ago we knew about Jóska, and now I have quoted to you exactly that this has been going on for 30 years, but you also had to know it for the oversight of national security services. So I ask you, have you ever considered what kind of national security [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] József Szájer is a risk and, despite his blackmailability, how he could have gotten into the positions he had been in for decades. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-139	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-140	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I agree with you on one thing: I do not care in the least what happens in someone's bedroom; that is for you too. But if you want to discuss this here, there is also a possibility. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As far as the risk is concerned, the Hungarian government cannot be blackmailed, because if it were extortionable, to which you and your friends of principle are trying to refer, you would now refrain from the veto that indicated earlier. But I'm sure you've noticed, and everyone on the left, that's not what's happening. As far as the risks are concerned, of course, the Hungarian specialised bodies do their work in accordance with the legislation. But speaking of risks, I see quite a different type of risk, honourable Member. Speaking of risk: your leader in 2006 with rubber bullets fired between the Hungarian people through the police station, to be precise, the police did this work at head height. What is risk and insolence is that you do not support it at all, but, let alone do not support it, prevent the control of the coronal virus epidemic, which is, let alone risk, quite simply impertinence, one of the greatest insolences of the last 30 years. And what's risky, and also insolence, is that, on your side, the Kispest Mob is still active, despite the fact that they've been caught. [[13.40]] We can learn about real estate Caesars, real cocaineists, bundles of money in elevator shaft and so forth, and none of this has any consequences. On our side, there are consequences to any event that is unacceptable. That's the difference. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The settlement policy?]]
u2020-12-07-141	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-142	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, it's a little like I can't tell Gizike from steam. I asked you completely different questions, and you answered a different question. You can play this game, but let's not call it a responsible attitude on the part of the government. I asked him specifically that there was a leading Fidesz leader, Fidesz faction leader, Vice-President of Parliament, MEP, Vice-President of the People's Party, who was clearly extorted, not only because of foreign governments and foreign specialised services, and not only could they blackmail him, but he could blackmail him, sire, his own party, or the leadership of his own party. I'd like to ask you again that this has come up. Or am I asking the question in a different way: is it possible that József Szájer was consciously given these positions because he was in control by you, the Fidesz leadership? How many other people on your team who could be blackmailed for this or anyone else, but that wasn't an exclusion, that was the criterion to go where? Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-12-07-143	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-144	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As I understand it, Congressman, you ask that Fidesz, as a party of government, is blackmailing its members. The answer is no. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-145	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Why are you talking to him? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, was entitled to respond. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-07-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, of course, I met online with the leaders of the seven large pensioners' organisations and the Conciliation Council of Pensioners' Trade Unions with 300,000 members. We looked at the situation of the retirement society together. The leaders of the organisations have also pointed out that older people are becoming increasingly poor, they feel the brutal rise in food prices, which does not appear at all in raising pensions. Moreover, the growth of pensions is not only lower than the inflation of the real pensioner consumer basket, but also very much lower than the rise in wages. It is insulted that, while the plague is the worst plague on the elderly, the government has done nothing for them this year, but nothing. Last week, I asked the government and you for a little help getting the 13th month's pension paid up just two months before Christmas. This move would have helped a lot of pensioners. On the one hand, it would have helped them to have enough food on their table at Christmas, and on the other hand, they could have bought their granddaughter a little Christmas present because pensioners, the elderly, like to give. At least they'd have had some fun around Christmas. What was the answer to my question? On the one hand, you didn't answer, and on the other hand you laughed, practically laughed at a quarter of the Hungarian society, who worked a whole life. Mr Secretary, I would like to ask you once again that you will pay for the early payment of the 13th month's pension before Christmas. My second question is that the Hungarian National Bank predicted inflation of 3.5 percent next year, and you want to increase pensions by only 3 percent in January next year. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-07-147	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I have to deny your claim that I laughed at pensioners. I find it very regrettable that as a 66-year-old politician, as a woman, you are resorting to this by making a Kamuvideo about your fellow Member, by trying to prove that I laughed at pensioners during my speech, while, by the way, the record proves that it is not so, because I turned to Dániel Z. Carpathian, and I listened to what he said to me, and I really laughed at him. I'm sure he can testify to that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Definitely.]] I don't understand these political methods, but you know what you're using when you're retired. First of all, I have to start with good news: pensions in December were first received by pensioners. The person who gets into a bank account got this pension on the 2nd day of the month instead of the 12th day of the month, precisely so that he could buy for Christmas. And those who receive it by post will begin to receive pensions from that date. This proves exactly what the government is asking for. Of course, as a opposition politician, you can easily say that we are bringing forward the 13th month pension, you are not responsible for the balance of the budget, you are not responsible for the budget deficit, you are not responsible for international judgement. You are right, of course, and we agree that the 13th month pension is needed, and the government says that the 13th month pension should be returned to pensioners, in such a way that the first quarter of the pension should be returned to pensioners at the beginning of 2021, half in 2022 and the last quarter in 2023. Let's talk about this, so that the 13th month pension is finally returned by the current government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-149	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2020-12-07-150	Mr. Secretary, I may not be responsible for the budget, but I am responsible for the pensioners. You're talking about what a great benefit you've done now, because you've moved the payout of the December pension two weeks ahead. What have you accomplished? Only that poor pensioners spend that little money first. A little help would have been to move the first instalment of the 13th month's pension two months ahead. Then they would have had a little bit more money in December, but that's why they don't have pensioners. Secretary of State, you have no idea what it is when by the middle of the month the few pensions run out when the pensioner is wondering how he can supplement it. And you're talking about me not feeling responsible for the budget? ! If you look at it, you don't fully understand when you're throwing billions. Let's see how many billions have been distributed to their own oligarchs after the epidemic period, how much has been distributed to luxury tourism and hotel development and everything else! That's what you should stop doing, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from DK and Dialogue.]]
u2020-12-07-151	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2010, Fidesz undertook to maintain the purchasing value of pensions. Don't think it was such an easy promise then. It was not an easy promise because your fellow ally, Gyurcsányek and Bajnai, together with Medgyessy, could not deliver for two cycles, and the purchasing value of pensions decreased by 8 percent over time. At present, every year under the Fidesz administration, pensions are higher than the rate of increase in prices. In the last ten years, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent, and I can promise you that in 2021, with inflation and pension increases of 3 percent, it will also be achieved that we will continue to maintain the purchasing value of pensions next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-07-153	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the Deputy Minister the right to reply. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-154	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have a very simple question about the Szájer scandal. My question is who lied. Did József Szájer lie or did Fidesz lie? József Szájer resigned on 29 November and referred to spiritual reasons. He said that he would put an end to a longer period of thinking. He said that for some time, participation in the day's political struggle has been an increasing psychological burden for him. [[13.50]] Fidesz communicated the same way: Fidesz wrote on its central Facebook page that József Szájer played a crucial role in enabling Hungarian civil conservatism and Christian democracy to take their place in Europe. There was no mention of any incident in Brussels. Then, a few days later, it turned out that József Szájer had attended an illegal sex party, not for spiritual reasons. Someone lied here. Dear Secretary of State, Did you know about József Szájer's illegal sex party or not? If they could, why did they lie? If they couldn't, did József Szájer lie to you and the Hungarian people? So who lied, Mr. Secretary? For once in your life, be honest and tell me who lied about this case. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-12-07-155	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-156	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If you are with us today, we have repeatedly repeated that we regret and find what has happened unacceptable, but what has happened has been a political consequence. We believe that in a normally functioning country, when a person is involved in political scandals, unacceptable acts, there must be consequences. This would be a much luckier country if this were the case on all political sides. The fact is, when you are making these questions about us for the many times now, I can do nothing but to draw attention to the existence of this double standard, because it stands that we have consequences for such cases and that you do not have them. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It must be so hard to say this so many times!]] When you don't ask me about these issues, you ask me most of the questions about cases in Budapest, what Parliamentary Secretary Menczer said here earlier. Don't you feel the dissonance? That there are elected city leaders who are in position right now, they're involved in a perfectly clear drug deal, they're clearly involved in corruption cases, and they're there. And Gergely Christmas, your party president, or you do not say one word, but applaud the common list and look forward to being on the opposition list set by Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2022. Where's the level playing field here? So I think if there's anything to sweep, it's in your house. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-157	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You didn't answer the question: who lied in this case? Did József Szájer lie to you, or did you already know that, and you lied to the Hungarian people? Be kind, for once in your life, try to be honest and tell me who lied about this case. If you want to continue to govern, you want to trust, then tell me who lied in this case. And as for the consequences, Mr. Secretary, do you know how this would have been right? By standing up with you, József Szájer tells you what happened, he tells you that he will take the consequences and resign. But that's not what happened. They lied all over the place, and then when it came out, he resigned, and that's when he started talking about exactly what happened. That's the truth, Mr. Secretary. So the question is, once again, who lied about this case? The question is simple, and there is no need to talk about what's going on with the capital, there is no need to talk about what's going on with the opposition, there is an honest question to be answered by the Hungarian people: who lied about the Szájer scandal, Honourable Secretary of State?
u2020-12-07-159	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-160	Honourable Congressman, I appreciate your rhetorical turns, and that you have tried to make iron rings of wood somehow, but it is a matter of saying that if someone on our political side does something unacceptable, then there is a consequence, in this case the resignation and retirement from the public position. We accept that. After all, the answer must be found here, and in the hour of immediate questions and answers, perhaps I can ask you what will happen on your political side. How can you ask us these questions when you turn around, turn around, talk to your own partymates, and things aren't right there? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] How do you do that, Congressman? In my view, this is not fair, and we are doing the right thing, and the whole Hungarian political public is doing the right thing if all political sides keep order in their place. We're, I'm reporting, keeping order on our side, and you're not doing that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is this order?]]
u2020-12-07-161	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Why does the Left want to make people pay for the losses of the crisis? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, was entitled to respond. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-12-07-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As long as the government strives to do its utmost for families and businesses in a difficult situation due to the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, left-wing authorities will impose additional burdens on them. For example, the mayor of Ballikos Jászberény, Lóránt Budai, has brazenly increased the business tax and two new taxes, the land tax and the construction tax, by the re-introduction of the extraordinary legal order. In the middle of the crisis, all Jászberény companies pay more taxes and each Jászberény family can count on hundreds of thousands of extra expenses. This is outrageous, and this step is not only true of Jászberény. We could say in a row: Miskolc, Eger, Ózd, Gyöngyös, Vác, Baja, Budakalasz, and even the richest Hungarian city, Budapest's several district municipalities have raised or introduced taxes, rent and service charges recently, imposing additional burdens on Hungarian people. The current crisis was not caused by the Hungarian people, so it cannot be allowed to be paid by the left-wing authorities. The left continues exactly where the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government stopped ten years ago. The crisis is once again being dealt with by tax increases, in which the country almost fell into 2010. This amazing process must be blocked, so the government has imposed another economic and family protection measure. It prohibits municipalities from raising local and municipal taxes in 2021, introducing new taxes and abolishing tax incentives so far. With all due respect to the Secretary of State, what measures does the government intend to take to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis? How much tax revenue has the state given up on its crisis management measures so far? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why did they consider it justified to freeze local governments' tax increases? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-163	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The problem arises from the fact that there are two types of thinking about the country's governance, the governance of settlements, economic policy, budgetary policy and indeed the management of the crisis. These two types of thinking differ in the fact that while the Fidesz-KDNP government is in favour of maintaining jobs and creating jobs in crisis situations and making decisions from this point of view, the Left, if it comes to power, spends the money and resources left by the right-wing conservative government or government as soon as possible, and then, seeing that there is a problem and that the deficit needs to be filled, immediately thinks about raising taxes. The left is also thinking of a tax increase, even if there is no crisis, there is no more difficult situation, as the situation in the crisis is also more difficult for the government budget and the management of the municipalities. In the beginning, less tax revenue comes in, and other expenditure must also be given, put aside; I am thinking primarily of epidemiological expenditure here. That is why local governments, left-wing authorities, who have already done or want to do the tax increase, have to be persuaded to take the measures introduced by the Government Decree in the special legal order, which is not to allow left-wing authorities to enforce the kind of thinking that only the tax increase is the solution to the problems. That's not true. There's another way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2020-12-07-165	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, it also shows that left-wing city leaders, if they do this to their hometown, what they would do to the country. The government decree banning municipal tax increases has received the first left-wing reaction in recent days. For example, Péter Niedermüller, mayor of Erzsébetváros, stated that, contrary to the decree, they are going through their tax lifting plans, in a radio interview he also told us how they will play out the rules that we consider outrageous and incomprehensible. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!]] We know from the politics of the capital and Jászberény that such tax increases would not really be necessary. Gergely Christmas, head of Hungary's richest city, sits on hundreds of billion-dollar sovereign debt and tens of billions of cash, yet he considers harsh increases. In Jászberény, in September this year, there was much more business tax revenue than was expected in spring; Jászberény's tax revenue is usually close to HUF 3 billion, yet they keep pressing and raising taxes. Dear Secretary of State, Why do left-wing authorities insist so much on their idea of raising taxes? Why do people want to make people pay for the losses of the crisis? Thank you.
u2020-12-07-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-168	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, It is unacceptable that these municipalities want to impose an even greater burden on people. And I would also like to highlight one of these, the Municipality of Budapest, in which the thinking of Gergely Christmas is totally unacceptable, is that the companies here are taxed separately by companies operating in the capital. It also endangers the government's tax reduction policy, since [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Hungary's view is positive in this respect, since corporate tax is the lowest, personal income tax is the second lowest in the European Union. In Hungary, the tax environment is appropriate and attracts investment. Gergely Christmas with that suggestion is putting that at risk. You're jeopardizing the country's judgment by proposing a tax increase. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-169	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Miklós Seszták, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. How does the government help the Hungarian economy in emergency situations? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda appointed Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Because of the pandemic, we have been living in the world and in Hungary for the tenth month. Protecting lives is our priority today, and I would like to thank you here in Parliament for the daily sacrifice of healthcare workers. It is also important that the Hungarian economy continues to face the challenges. In addition to the specific situation, we can say that the economic environment is still stable in Hungary today. The economic and job protection measures of the Fidesz-KDNP government have proved effective. This is indicated, among other things, by the evolution of unemployment, by the increase in industrial production, which, according to the data of the HCSO, increased by 66 percent compared to the lowest level in April. The statistics of the Statistical Office indicate that mass redundancies have been avoided so far. Dear Secretary of State, In order to preserve jobs, the government launched its employment protection wage support programme for the duration of the epidemic. This could protect jobs in the longer term. This has helped to improve the prospects and opportunities of over a million workers. During the fall, there were some 4.5 million people employed. In these extraordinary months, we are also doing well in international comparison with the development of unemployment. The fourth lowest unemployment rate in Hungary was due to measures in the European Union in September. Therefore, wage support, tax and contribution reductions, credit moratorium, investment incentives and credit programmes, training grants have proved effective. In view of what has been said, I ask the Secretary of State: how do you assess the progress made in these extraordinary times? How does the government help the Hungarian economy in an emergency? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We came out of the crisis together after 2010, and now together we will succeed again. The government's economic protection measures, the Hungarian economy, are effective; just to say one number, it has achieved an increase of 11,3 percent in the third quarter compared to the previous quarter. This is a positive figure beyond the expectations of market analysts, which confirms the need to continue in the second wave of the epidemic the government measures that we have already started, i.e. the economic policy based on tax cuts and the protection of jobs. In the third quarter, the Hungarian economy performed better in an annual comparison, such as the Austrian, Czech, Portuguese and Belgian economies. Honourable Congressman, The government, on a proposal from the economic defence operational tribe, takes the necessary decisions to protect jobs and to give new impetus to the economy, and indeed such was the credit moratorium, tax cuts, zero-percent, job retention loans, wage subsidies, job-creating wage subsidies, job-saving investment grants, free training and other opportunities. The extension of the credit moratorium and significant tax facilitations have also been decided over the past period, but it is worth highlighting the simplification of the various financial measures: it is possible to pay electronically in several places and make the administration of real estate cheaper. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-07-173	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. The most important task of Hungary's Government is to protect lives. However, it is important for all of us that, in addition to protecting life, the government also assists economic processes, thereby supporting the lives and well-being of families. During the second wave of the epidemic, the government took a number of measures for entrepreneurs and workers. In total, wage subsidies and other measures in the economic protection action plan have helped to keep more than one million workers on their feet. By the time the vaccine arrives and the world economy restarts, Hungarian businesses will be ready to grow in a competitive state. Then let's get started. I ask the government to continue its economic policy in support of workers and entrepreneurs, to which we will give all the support of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is particularly important that we are committed to building a work-based society in the epidemic situation as well, since the last ten years have proved precisely that Hungarian people want and can make a living from work. Honourable Congressman, Beyond what you have said, the government also considers it important to continue to assist Hungarian people and Hungarian families in such a situation. This is, for example, the restoration of the 13th month pension, or this is what the system of additional support under the new home creation programme is about, since we help the Hungarian families create homes and improve their homes with numerous discounts, VAT reductions and tax reductions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-07-177	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "How long will power fall to this level? It's an address. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, has been given the right to reply because of the Minister's absence. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.10]]
u2020-12-07-178	Mr President, Dear House, Although it is tempting to ask the government representatives about their lying around the orgies, here was an interesting ministerial statement: Minister for Finance Varga indicated that this year's budget revenues will be of a good magnitude of 1700 billion, and the budget deficit has been brutally lost, and the EU veto plan that Hungary's Government has put in place assumes that about 2500 billion forints of EU funding will be lost, or that is the end of question. I am one of those who does not consider the resources coming from the EU as free money at all, since Hungary has put the other side of the system with its markets, its membership fees and its falling customs revenue. However, we see that while Hungary's Government is now at war with everyone in the galaxy, and in the Szájer Fundamental Law it is also trying to change the definition of public money in such a way that it is easier to operate its corruption channels, it is forgetting a very wide social group, namely Hungarian workers, since Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised the second wave of economic protection measures by mid-September, but the government is still in debt to this day. The Secretary of State Tállai is the most appropriate person to tell us why this package has not been brought here. Why could only 5 percent or 5 percent of the workers in terms of the Hungarians' wages lost in comparison to 25 percent and 30 percent in Western Europe? Why do banks only pay on paper for the defense fund? Why do multinational companies not pay in a manner appropriate to public burdens while overshadowing local governments? Why would they put 900 billion dollars in foreign currency loans in their necks? How long do they even want to go to war? How long will the Hungarian workers pay for their war? And when would you like to address your most important task, the substantial representation of Hungarian workers? I look forward to your specific answers.
u2020-12-07-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The speaker criticized the impact of the Hungarian government's economic decisions on the crisis, claiming that the workers had not been dealt with by the government and thus put them in a difficult position. I think there's a ground-breaking way to deny that. It can be disproved because, as regards the first wave of economic crisis, it was the Hungarian government who liberated more than 20% of GDP in order to save Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian economy. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: In how many years? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How did this song come out?]] This meant that, in order to save jobs, it provided significant State aid to workers and then it was possible to register for new job creation applications issued by the ITM. Then, under the direction of the SME, the government started to finance new investments. I believe that the government is not at war, but defends the interests of the Hungarian people, and when you call this a war against the European Union, the Hungarian Prime Minister said that we will probably do so, then it is not a war, but the protection of the Hungarian people, because European Union funds cannot be left to the thoughts and suggestions of representatives of other countries in the European Parliament. All EU members and countries are equally entitled to EU funds without any political or other conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-181	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-182	Dear Secretary of State, My request is with all due respect not to cloud me in the same way as the details of the orgy and the lying. I asked when Hungarian workers would start to be concerned. You promised me a fall economic defense action plan. Where is this action plan? When will it come before us? I have said that 5 percent of workers have been able to support a little bit in terms of falling wages so far. When will it take place, I expect a specific date, the other 95 percent? How can you identify with the fact that 150,000 of our unemployed compatriots in your system do not require any benefits? And how can you identify that the number of original spring users in the credit moratorium has been reduced to a quarter by this government? Is that it, Mr. Secretary, doing business with employees? Is this economic security, or is it going to get worse, Mr. Secretary? Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-07-183	Thank you. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-184	Thank you very much. Well, in three minutes, you've raised a lot of questions here, and we finally got to the Feds. If I may, I would like to return to your previous point as to why it was necessary to add 900 billion forints. If you were to monitor Hungary's financing plan and pay attention to how much credit should be repaid in 2021, and this foreign currency loan or bond will essentially replace it, and cheaper than it is necessary to repay the loan in 2021, you would probably not be criticised. But if you could just watch which countries have done this in the past, I wouldn't be critical. As far as foreign exchange lenders are concerned, this government has done the most to eliminate foreign exchange loans, and the families that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government has put in such a situation should come out of the crisis and be able to live a normal life again, so the government should not be criticised. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: 13,000 evictions?]]
u2020-12-07-185	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "They have lied again?" How many more people have to die? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the Deputy Minister the right to reply. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2020-12-07-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, At the beginning of November, Viktor Orbán announced that teachers, social workers and health workers will be tested continuously; he did so by saying that the opposition had been demanding continuous testing for months. Then it was quiet for a few weeks, and Gergely Gulyás announced on 19 November that 191 thousand people would be tested, and the next day István György talked about 370 thousand people, and the third day Orbán talked about testing 238 thousand people. The regulation was published, it was not clear to the institutions who were among those who were being screened and then tested last week. And see, this weekend, it was announced by a government commissioner that they immediately stopped the continuous testing. Mr. Secretary. The Prime Minister himself said that these workers will be tested continuously. On the opposition's part, we have said that the way in which the epidemic is taking place in Hungary is by continuously testing those on the front line. Mr. Secretary, what happened this weekend that you decided to stop it immediately after a single test process? What is the reason for this shutdown, and what will happen next? Isn't it important to protect those on the front line now? What happened this weekend that you can't keep up the testing process? We know the answer. I just want to hear it from you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-07-187	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-188	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that reality is exactly the opposite of what you said. Mass testing has been carried out in Hungary in the last few weeks, and this will also be the case in the coming weeks. In recent weeks antigen-based testing has been carried out in nursery schools, kindergartens, educational institutions, social institutions and health institutions. This could otherwise have been the result of an unprecedented professional and coordination cooperation. It seems from the data that there is no higher positivity rate fortunately than we thought, or in other countries, or in other social groups. This is also due to the fact that the number of tests carried out by Hungary per capita has been at the forefront of Europe over the last few weeks, and, as you mentioned, Secretary of State István György and, moreover, the operational staff provide detailed and continuous information on this in relation to the evaluation of data. [[14.20]] Now, this week, the group testing of regional administrative workers coming into direct contact with customers will also begin. So we're going to continue with the program that we've undertaken, and we think it's an important program. Hungary has nothing to be ashamed of in international comparison of testing capacities in relation to the control of the epidemic. So we would like to ask that, instead of claiming that what is not true is the end of the period of mass testing, we also support our additional efforts in this connection. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-189	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-07-190	Mr. Secretary. Prime Minister said they're going to keep filtering and testing these workers. The letter states that the tests for the detection of the coronal virus will be stopped for the time being. We are not talking about continuous testing, a single test process has been launched and stopped, Mr. Secretary of State. And the other is that we are constantly demanding that anyone infected with a coronal virus should not be entitled to 60 per cent of the sick, but 100 per cent of the sick. And what you're saying about educators is that the government office will decide whether or not it was infected at work: how in God's name does the government office know? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: How do you speak?]] [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: How do you speak?]] That he was infected or not infected there? ! (Dr. Peter Hoppál: How do you speak?) And the other thing is, it's outrageous. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: How do you speak?]] I'm sure you'll be able to communicate with him. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You're not home!]] He'll get 60 percent of his salary, and when the government office decides he's infected there, he'll get the other 40 percent. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: What uncultured speech is this?]] Mr. Secretary, I think this is the top of everything you do to workers in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Blasphemy...]] I don't think you should talk about God. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame on you!]]
u2020-12-07-191	Dear Parliament, I'm signaling Congresswoman. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] Don't take the name of God in vain. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's it!]] Please remember that. This is the Hungarian Parliament. As a reformed believer, I refuse. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I am one, but at least I am...]] Please! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame on you!]] Please! [[Bence of Turdai: It's not in the house rules!]] Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2020-12-07-192	If you will allow me, Mr Tordai, to make a comment: even if something is not included in the house rules, it can still form a common national minimum case. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You should say that in that bench!]] And as a child, Congresswoman, before you go into it, I would like to ask that you really stop lying with the greatest respect. So, once Lajos Korózs from your bench claims that, on the one hand, he fakes statistics in relation to those infected with the epidemic, [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It is written!]] On the other hand, as a representative of such a party, they are shooting a Kamuvideo, saying that mass testing is not taking place in Hungary, while I am talking about who we have been testing in bulk over the last two weeks, and we have talked about who is coming in line as the next mass-tested group. Between your claim and reality, the gap is so great that we would fall for miles. I suggest we stay out of this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-193	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 2:23 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. In view of the fact that no political group has asked for a question, this item will not be discussed. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Parliamentary representative of the KDNP, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2020-12-07-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Hussars are part of a thousand-year-old Hungarian culture, and accordingly we have an important duty to preserve, nurture and pass on hussars traditions. The knight is not only the archetype of the Hungarian light horse soldier, but also a symbol of our nation. The knight is a symbol of patriotism, endurance, virtus, and camaraderie to self-sacrifice. The knighthood is the embodiment of the most beautiful, heroic military virtues of the Hungarian people. According to Hussar Colonel Kálmán Nagy, if the Hussar, on his mobile, fast, tireless, beautiful Hungarian horse, took the hussar sword in his hand and the ancient Hungarian cavalry spirit came back into him, then he became another man, another soldier, another man: Hungarian knight! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm The virtuoso acts of the knights in Hungarian art appear in many places, tales, poems, songs and anecdotes tell tales of the brave and heroic deeds of knighthood. Statues, paintings, and ornaments capture the characteristic clothing of the knights, the fluffy cape, richly-lined dolls, tight trousers, colored braided belts, spurted, short-legged boots, and the back of the left shoulder. The Hungarian Hussar has been a hungaricum since 2017, expressing unity, unity and national consciousness. Although the knights have been fighting in battlefields since the Turkish era, the knighthood is most associated with the 1848-49 Revolution and the fight for freedom. In the battles of freedom, the knights showed outstanding courage, and often fought. Sixty, Tápióbicske, Isaszeg, Vác and Nagyszallo, that is, the successful battles of the glorious spring campaign could not have been accomplished without them. Across the world, 34 nations have put knighthood on a Hungarian model, often with Hungarian leadership and Hungarian crews, creating the hussars' centuries. In Poland King István Bathory, in Russia IV. Tsar Ivan, Italy, II. King Viktor Emanuel organized the knighthood. There are still active hussars in France, the Netherlands, Canada and the United Kingdom. The knights throughout Europe were military elite units of the age. Following the change of regime, traditional units were established in Hungary for the preservation, care and transmission of Hussar traditions. This is also particularly important because all Hungarian children have made hussarks or swords like legendary knights. We owe thanks to those who rebooted the Hussar tradition. We thank the volunteer organizers for their hard work and thank the young people who have joined the different Hussar associations in increasing numbers. We are proud of our brave knights. There are many families in the family who have a hussar tradition. My grandmother's great-grandfather was a knight in the Napoleon wars, and my grandmother's great-grandfather was found in 1848-49 as a colonel in the ranks of revolution and freedom struggle. Later, on conspiracy charges, the Habsburgs sentenced him to death, after which they changed him to 20 years in prison, but at the time of the settlement he was released with political amnesty. We are proud of our hussars' traditions, and we are proud of all those who wear their knights every year. We are proud because the knights show us what patriotism and camaraderie mean, what it means to be Hungarian and what it means to fight for our Hungarians. Traditions strengthen our national identity, forge us together, help us resist an attack from the outside. Heroic, virtuous, persistent, patriotic knights can serve as a good and positive example for youth. Let us be proud of our Hungarian national hussar traditions! Saddle, turn! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! Dr. Richard Hörcsik: Bravo! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting address on the Hungarian Village Programme. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In December 2018, the government set itself the goal of increasing the population retention of small settlements and helping young people to stay in their homes and to reduce migration, and therefore decided on the Hungarian village program in December. The complex development programme of settlements under 5 thousand was the first in 2019 to represent an investment of HUF 150 billion on the part of the government. It is important to see that despite the pandemic, more resources were available to the villages this year, HUF 219 billion, and next year, HUF 252 billion can be used to improve the quality of rural life. [[14.30]] We can ask you what the Hungarian village program can mean in a constituency where there are 14 settlements with the county seat, and 70 percent of the inhabitants live in the county seat. That's our constituency. We have 12 eligible settlements, and last year we received 28 successful tenders and received HUF 553 million in support of our villages, while this year 47 successful tenders resulted in HUF 401 million. So in just two years the village population of the Szolnok region became richer with a total of 75 applications. The figures and facts alone are to be appreciated, and development resources can also be said to be based on needs and cover almost all areas of life, thus helping small settlements to develop. In our constituency, community spaces were renewed worth 149 million HUF in nine settlements. It was the first tender. We remember this with great love. The village folklore service has expanded. We had the benefit of the battle angle and Tiszúrköny. Both settlements had first-ranking demands and dreams. The development of basic health care is a very important issue in rural areas. In our constituency Vezseny and Rákócziújfalu's office was renewed, and in the offices of eight settlements medical devices could be upgraded for more than HUF 20 million, and I could continue the line with kindergarten renovation and the renovation of kindergarten play yard. It is a pleasure to see Besenyjög, Rákócziújfalu, Szászberek, Tiszayenő, Tiszavárkony, Tószeg play yards, kindergarten courtyards can become safer and modern. Transport infrastructure for small settlements is also a very important issue. Since the launch of the program, the government has spent HUF 24 billion on this purpose. The winners of this are Hunyadfalva, Kőtelek, Nagykörű, Szászberek, Toszzeg, Zagyvarékas, worth almost 140 HUF. And obviously not everything can be said in such a short speech. I didn't say anything about bicycle roads, cemeteries, public maintenance equipment, service apartments to highlight just a few things. But if you look at what it means in a different section, I have highlighted two settlements in the life of each settlement. If we were to travel virtually in Tiszavárkony, we would see that the church community space was renewed, not one, but two. A kindergarten was renovated, a church cemetery, a village bus was purchased, a service apartment was renovated, and several communities won the civil competition worth almost HUF 100 million. If we look at another settlement, in Rákócziújfalu, a kindergarten, a community space, a medical office, a kindergarten building, a gymnasium were renovated, a bicycle route was built, and civil communities also won. If you think about the importance of strengthening communities in addition to building, infrastructure and creating conditions, this year's civil application for the Hungarian village programme is very important. I must say that the mayors of the constituency are satisfied with the programme, because it provides fast, accurate, secure, 100% support and serves very serious development goals. So far, no government has developed such a serious, complex and truly rural agenda as the Orbán government. As I have already said, the main objective is to increase the durability of rural Hungary. I thank the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's staff, and not least Vice-President Gyopáros Alpár. It should be pointed out that the programme is flexible for real needs, and we have seen from our proposals in this year's target areas. We were pleased to see that the number of applications increased in the more popular target areas already in the second year, and that there was an increase in the number of beneficiaries, including municipalities, parish communities and educational centres. Congratulations to our villages, who also work effectively and continuously in the epidemiological measures every day. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are confidently looking forward to the proposals for the year 2021. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-197	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group: on National Affairs. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-198	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are living in extremely difficult times, and this is not only important for us here in the mother country, but it has also made the lives of Hungarians from abroad difficult, and the Hungarians from abroad have had to face a lot of tasks and challenges that, let's say, are not typical and do not appear in peacetime this year. This year we had to be excited at many parliamentary and local elections to successfully include Hungarian parties and candidates for representatives operating and starting in the annexed parts of the country. We can say that, apart from a few sad examples, these have been successful overall, and we would also like to congratulate all those who obtained seats in this year's parliamentary and local elections. Unfortunately, the Hungarian representation failed in the Highlands; unfortunately, the Hungarian representation fell there. We hope that the reorganization will be successful, and we will be able to establish a kind of cooperation in the next election that Hungarian parliamentary representation in Slovakia will be assured again. But we have seen that the elections in Croatia have been successful, in the same way Parliamentary and local elections in Serbia, and that local elections in Ukraine have been successful in Hungarian terms. In the case of Transylvanian Hungarians and Romania, it was particularly enjoyable that in this year, two successful elections could be organised and conducted by the representatives of the Hungarians living there, the parties representing the Hungarians living there. The local elections were also very successful. Here it was especially joyful that after 20 years he was once again the mayor of the Hungarian mayor of Marosvásárhely. Yesterday was the day of the parliamentary elections in Romania, and we can see that the Transylvanian Hungarians were exposed to themselves, and that a very stable, secure entry was achieved by the RMDSZ and the Hungarian cooperation. I would also like to congratulate the RMDSZ and the parties of the Hungarian Alliance from here and from the Hungarian Parliament. I congratulate you on the fact that in the next period there will be a stable, strong representation of the Hungarians in the Romanian legislation. Each cycle brings specific difficulties and problems, and we can see that this will be no different, because unfortunately, in yesterday's election, an extremely anti-Hungarian far-right party also reached the parliamentary entry threshold, so unfortunately we have no reason for much confidence. Obviously, the Hungarian parliamentary representation in Transylvania, Romania, will have the task of preventing these attacks. At the same time, there are very, very worrying, bad news. In Transcarpathia, the local elections have been very good, and in many places the formation of the bodies is hindered, and the Hungarian representation is also subject to particularly outrageous atrocities. In the case of the Greyhound Council, they were attacked not too long ago because the Hungarian Anthem was sung. Unfortunately, the actions of the Ukrainian authorities against Transcarpathian Hungarians are getting ugly. Last week, Ukrainian security forces were assigned to the II. Ferenc Rákóczi At the Hungarian University of Transcarpathia and at the Charity Foundation of the Egán Ede Kárpattalja Economic Development Centre, the KMKZSZ headquarters of Hungvár and the apartment of László Brenzovics. According to the news, using the Hungarian economic development programme, KMKZSZ is being attacked and accused of anti-state activity, completely unfounded. We would also like to express our solidarity and protest against the attacks on László Brenzovics and the Hungarian community. We believe that the Hungarian Government must take all measures that are sufficiently strict and sufficiently tough against unacceptable and unprecedented aggressive attacks, and we fully support and support the Government on these issues. By the way, we can see that these anti-Hungarian attacks have had a very, very long history. Previously, KMKZSZ's offices were threatened or bombed, which burned down the office, and now, in recent days, in videos and in various letters, Hungarians living there, who simply want to live in their homeland, want to use their mother tongue. It is shocking for us that Ukraine, a country seeking a European Union, is listening to and not raising their voices by the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European political elite. We also call on the European political elite to speak out against these outrageous measures and to do everything possible to ensure that, as part of the Eastern Partnership, the basic European values, the legitimate expectations of indigenous minorities linked to the rights of the mother tongue, are fully met in the country of European Union membership; and to speak decisively against such genderless attacks. We can say that we will always and always stand up for the Transcarpathian Hungarians and everyone, in the separated parts of the country for all Hungarians who are in any way under attack or unworthy of trial in the near future. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of the Parliament of Jobbik, has applied for a post-scheduled speech:, For how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-200	Mr President, Dear House, There is a need for a housing raid in Hungary, because there are amazing overruns and wild rides in the area of housing that call for immediate intervention, and while the government is embellishing the truth or lying about orgys, it is warring with European space, so it can be said that the Hungarian reality is faced. The fact that countless Hungarian workers have lost their former income, salary, and part of their assets. Or find one among his family members who has lost their income, but they typically have to pay the same rent, housing costs, and have received little or no help. [[14.40]] That is why a series of events linked to Hermina Bau, the details of which all my opposition fellow Members, I believe and I know, have received, and fortunately, several factions have already spoken out for those injured who are likely to be victims of a fully conscious deception process, cannot take possession of their new residence, so they must delay or give up their various family-related plans. After all, it was said that a contractor, a residential park building company, saw the expected increase in prices and labour shortages in 2016, but still consciously continued and speeded the sale of the apartments. At the time when the victims claimed that various permits had expired, they still sold the real estate that they were trying to continue with this draft. Finally, we have seen that from January 2018 higher prices have also started to be applied to customers who have previously entered into contracts. This seemed to be said by various deceptions and threats to us by all the victims, with letters such as the, for example, you will never get an apartment here, preventing the new owners from taking possession of the apartment they purchased, and using various pressure tools to recover these properties. 120 customers returned their property, and according to the claims of the Damaged Interest Protection Organization, this construction designer was able to realise an additional revenue of around one billion. It is true that the GVH started the investigation during the announcement, but what we see is that it should be impossible in the first place to do any constructive and constructive abuse in the Hungarian housing space, because I would like to emphasise once again that it is a conscious deception of consumers, and that there are masses of Hungarian people who stand in this situation that, since one of the necessary permissions is not supposed to be replaced by the investor, they do not want to obtain a permit to use it, they do not give the property purchased to the victims, so it becomes absolutely clear that Hungarian people have paid for a service, they have been badly humiliated, and for now they cannot expect legal aid. The minimum would be that the contractor, the owner of the company, would be responsible for his actions, the minimum would be to freeze his activities in other companies or other areas, and the minimum would be that the injured should be able to count for compensation. After all, what we see is that their different family plans are now in an incredibly background, and their potential for future childbearing or employment has been unbelievably reduced. At the same time, we must also emphasise that other brutal actions are taking place in the housing market. One of our dear colleagues was almost the victim of an act in which someone announced a one-time apartment in the airbnb on the web, and under the title of long-term rental, he collected a deposit from several people in parallel, and when he gained two million forints of this magnitude and was exposed, he clearly disappeared from virtual space. This could clearly help if there were to be a kind of chamber system, or an online database where, when a person announces his/her lease, he/she could receive legal aid and protection, and, where appropriate, where further tax relief could be provided, but the amazing supply scarcity that has resulted in the brutally expensive property, renters and landlords being vulnerable and in many cases forced into situations which also hinder their family and life planning goals. We therefore need a residential raid, a full sanction of abusers, and a guarantee of the Hungarian future in all areas. Jobbik as a national people's party is committed and also presents the necessary amendments that can provide the basis for this protection. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-07-201	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz Group, spoke on the development of the Tokaj-Zemplén region. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-202	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Today, it is well-known that when people are asked about Hungary in the world, then all of a sudden they have two things in mind. One's Gun Boy, the other's Tokaji. I have mentioned all this, Mr President, because it reflects the historical fact that for centuries Tokaj, the Tokaj Aszú and the Tokaj-Hegyalya have always received special attention not only in Hungary but also throughout Europe. Mr President, It is also well known that it was the first time in Hungary to determine which vineyards belong to the Tokaj wine region and which wines may be made there. Thus, the wine, the Tokaj Aszú, is made for the first time in the world in the closed wine region established in 1737, which is known all over the world. Despite the deterioration of the philoxera epidemic, then the communist-socialist approach, and finally the lack of capital following the regime change, it is still not apparent, despite the award-winning wine of many excellent winemakers, how Tokaj will end up in its rightful place both in the home and in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2002, Tokaj-Hegyalja again became the center of attention, when this wine region was the first to receive the World Heritage title in Hungary, and since 2012 it has become the only historical region of the country, which we mountainers are very proud of despite the many constraints. We know that this value must be shown not only abroad, but also at home, locally. Therefore, we need to solve the problem in a complex way, such as helping producers, giving quality products to the world, and so to put Hegyalya in a celebration so that we can receive the guests in a dignified manner. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the government's decision in November, the Tokaj-Zemplén development programme will be launched, which will give the region nearly HUF 150 billion worth of development funding. Looking back on the past decades, we see that many investments have already been made, but the Tokaj-Zemplén region's development programme is a completely new, different dimension. This government development is a comprehensive process of catching up which, according to the historical rank of Tokaj-Hegyalja, will bring about the centuries-old aspirations of the people living in the region, ensure sustainable development in the long term, increase the population-sustaining power of the region and reverse migration, improving living conditions. For these purposes, investments will enrich existing values and wine gastronomy, building on the world heritage culture. These developments rightly make the region the most important tourist region in Hungary after Budapest and Lake Balaton. The development of the transport network and the rapid and qualitative accessibility of the region are key elements of the concept. For example, in order to increase tourist attraction, the conditions for quality hospitality are substantially improved, the quality of the services of gastronomy, wineries and accommodations is increased, and many unique attractions can be achieved. For example, a 700-metre long pedestrian suspension bridge between Várhegy and Szárhegy Újhely, which connects downtown Tokaj to the Balasz-hegy lookout tower. The plans include several Bodrog coast ports. In Sárospatak, the wine training centre of Hungary, the University of Tokaj, is established, and the iconic Wine Church is renewed in Újhely. Ladies and gentlemen, The wine region across the 27 settlements continues to be given special attention, since it has a unique talent that has greatly shaped and shaped the reputation of our country today. But this large-scale development is Tokaj-Hegyalja, but for the entire area of Zemplén, I believe it will create the opportunity to finally return to the course of development that history has designated for him. Thank you for listening.
u2020-12-07-203	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title of the tourism development of East-Nógrád. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.50]]
u2020-12-07-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Since 2010, the performance of tourism has reached record levels in Hungary every year until 2019, and until the last year, or 2019, was the best tourist year of all time, the pandemic situation has made 2020 the worst tourist year of all time. The Covid-19 epidemic has created an unprecedented situation in our country. With almost complete bans on international travel restrictions, community gatherings and community mobility, tourism virtually stopped in March 2020 and began to revive only months later, even though there is a high degree of uncertainty, which strongly discourages travel in this basically trust-based sector. As a result of the crisis, security has been appreciated and the epidemic is likely to result in more conscious and prudent travelers. Another impact is the economic recession, which could lead to a reduction in discretionary incomes and a lack of travel. Many people prefer private transport instead of public transport, spending is held back, the average stay will decrease, and accommodation will be managed in a way that minimises contact with the unknowns. The crisis has been suffered by everyone, but new prospects have been opened up to domestic tourism, which has been strongly supported so far. It was also significant in our area before the outbreak, but the epidemic has led to even more decision to travel within national borders. This situation opened the gates to East Nógrád, of course, not without precedent. Nógrád, its eastern part, has already had magical values. Our tourism flagship is Hollókő, part of the cultural heritage with 67 protected buildings, the castle, the Castellum Hotel offering gastronomic pleasures, the celebration of traditions and life-joy, the Easter festival. The treasure of East Nógrád is also our national shrine, Szentkút, where pilgrims have been arriving for over eight hundred years to find God out of the routine of everyday life. The 419 square kilometers of Novohrad-Nógrád Geopark is located here, which preserves the geological, natural, historical and cultural heritage of 64 settlements in Nográd and 28 highlands. The fact that there is significant tourist potential in the geopark in Nógrád also proves the presence of ipolytarnóc fossils, where the unparalleled values of a 20 million-year-old ancient world destroyed by a volcanic disaster can be seen. Our territory is also covered by the Blue Tour and the Mária Road, as well as numerous trails. Of our natural values, the Cazar Riolittufa stands out, which is similar to that in six places in the world. The Kishartyan Kőlyi site, which, according to legend, served as the residence of the recluses, was the Tuzson arboretum and its life tree collection, located in about four hectares, on the edge of Kisterenye Aranyhegy, the cradle of the archeology of Hungary, from which almost all the major museums of Europe were discovered bronze-era findings. The house of the medieval Oskolamaster Pástón, the buzaki, the Ecsegian, the useful one, the Samsonházi, the owl, the Salgó, the ruins of the castles of Somoskő and the ravenokő, the Mining Museum of Salgótarján, the water paradise of Maconka, our castles and mansion. The whole of Nógrád county, its western and eastern half, is a miracle worth exploring, visiting or just hiking. It is pleased that in recent years the government has been very supportive of developments in Hollókő, Szentkút and geopark, and we can expect this in the future by providing significant resources. Thanks to the positive processes that have been taking place since 2010, we have been able to make effective use of EU and domestic resources to ensure that Nógrád County, including East Nógrád, has become a safe area, where mass tourism is not typical, which can be achieved quickly by individual means of transport, the vast majority of our services are wallet-friendly, and Budapest is just a leap. Explore Nógrád, come to us, we welcome all people of pure purpose. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-07-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Bence Tordai, Group of Dialogues also came forward after the agenda:. There should be more green, fewer oranges in Buda. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Many did not at first understand the significance of the government's withdrawal from the municipalities of the construction tasks. As a Green Representative in Buda, I would like to highlight the theoretical background and the practical consequences of this. The loss of the powers of the municipalities perfectly illustrates the government's attitude towards the people. The Fidesz is arbitrary in exercising control, the government doesn't matter what people think, the will of the people. The strong local government, the local government with real rights, the local government policy based on participation put direct democracy first, as opposed to the centrally controlled government. When the Fidesz government withdraws powers and resources from the municipalities, it does so because they do not want people to have a say in public affairs that affect them. Fidesz does not allow citizens to decide their future, and Fidesz says that opinion is forbidden. Viktor Orbán wants to control the whole country on his own. Enough of the looting of local communities and local governments, enough of the banning of citizens, enough of the destruction! You can't take it without punishment, steal it, destroy the values of the community. And that's what's happening in Buda and all over the country. From March, the powers of construction are exercised by Fidesz government officials and not by local authorities. While in the latter cases there is an opportunity for civic control over decisions, government agencies have no democratic authority, no real control, no social feedback. This is the arbitrage of Fidesz, which the Orbáns, because of the loss of municipal elections, have invented out of vengeance against the municipalities and their citizens. Among other things, this corrupt self - control has had the following consequences in Buda. 1. László Szíyj, one of Viktor Orbán's favourite oligarchs at Gellért-hegy, the funder of the corrupt luxury yachting of Péter Szijjártó, the owner of Duna Asphalt, which has been selling hundreds of billions in public procurements, has erected a small four-storey palace on the view of the Danube, privatizing the plot from István Tarlós that it did not. This facial toaster billionaire investment ignored all kinds of legislation, including a small forest. 2. The approval of the villa disturbing the panoramic view of Árpád was carried out by the Metropolitan Government Office led by Botond Sára, leaving no possibility for the second. the district for the opinion of the townscape. Once again, rich investors could acquire the natural values enjoyed by locals and tourists. 3. A tower crane is now rising above the nature reserve of the Apáthy Rock, as it is building a four-bedroom condominium here Norbert Szivek, a partner of Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. The investment here also threatens the hiking area and the nature conservation area. 4. There is also a huge villa built on the turf, much bigger than the district rules allow, there is not a lot of green surface left on the property. The investor is the wearer of the Knight Cross of the Hungarian Medal of Merit, a great friend of the Fidesz government, and the contractor of large downtown real estate businesses, Sameer Hamdan. Even the Fidesz mayor denied the building a permit to survive, but the government office, of course, put a stamp on it. But when not only the local rules are violated by Fidesz profiteering, but also by the protection of monuments or the protection of nature regulated by law, destruction is regarded as a major investment, so that there is no legal barrier to them, so that the opinions of locals and the municipality can also be avoided. In this way, the government commissioner György Wáberer, along with another fidesz oligarch, is now destroying the first class Radetzky barracks of 180 years, in contrast to the aspects of the protection of monuments and the views of the residents, with the investment in the luxury office complex and luxury hotels that overwhelm the area. These destructions associated with profiteering reek of corruption and self-consciousness. Oligarchs and investors linked to Fidesz benefit from investments that damage the interests of the Budapest public, the interests of the Buda people and our natural and cultural treasures. Therefore, we citizens of Buda will also play our part in breaking down the orange rule and safeguarding cultural and environmental values. Our motto is more green, less orange! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2020-12-07-207	Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "World Day for Persons with Disabilities" on the European Accessibility Directive. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2020-12-07-208	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 30 December, we celebrated the World Day for People with Disabilities, which was declared World Day in 1992 by the United Nations, drawing attention to the problems, tasks and tasks of people with disabilities. In previous years, in decades, this area has undergone a huge, spectacular development compared with the stagnating conditions before the regime changes. At the same time, we still have plenty of work to do in this area, adapting to the challenges posed by the accelerating world. There have been a number of measures and improvements in recent years that promote the fullest possible, independent living of our fellow people with disabilities compared to their opportunities. The employment rate of people with disabilities and persons with disabilities was 18% in 2010, more than double in 2020, rising to 44 percent, i.e. from 60 to 70 thousand to 155 thousand. We have also recently removed the limitation on the payment of rehabilitation and disability benefits. It is an important step to apply for home renovation support from January 2021, which can also be used by families who live with a disabled person or family member in a household without age restrictions. This support may also be used for renovations for accessibility. In addition, a lot of other measures have been taken, such as infocommunication accessibility, advocacy organisations, car shopping, support for rehabilitation centres, or even the amendment of the media law, which aims to extend accessibility for people with hearing disabilities by extending accessibility for people with visual impairment. I could mention either the continuous increase in the amount of the home care fee or the introduction of the weed, the amount of which will reach the minimum wage by 2022. However, I would now like to draw attention to the European Accessibility Directive, which was finally adopted by the European Union after nearly ten years of debate in 2019. In order for the rights of people with disabilities to prevail, it is essential to have an accessible life in as many areas as possible, both in products and in services. In Europe, between 80 and 100 million people have some kind of disability. This high number also shows how important this directive is. The aim of the Directive is to establish a single set of rules to remove the shortcomings arising from different national legislations. The directive also covers the following products and services, without the need for completeness: smartphones, tablets, computers, television programs, banking services such as telephone services, transport, e-commerce and the single European 112 emergency number. Member States should transpose these rules into their respective legal systems by 2022 and apply them from 28 July 2025. Therefore, in addition to the measures and improvements so far, we have other very important tasks and obligations ahead of us. Under the directive, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction and the government are committed to creating and strengthening the opportunities and opportunities of our disabled fellow citizens. We'll get back to work. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-07-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech, an independent representative:. Who are you? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Not all life is worthy of man, but it is with dignity to bear so often the poor roles of fate. 29 November 2020 József Szájer Hungary's MEP resigned. As a reason for his decision, he wrote that he had put an end to a longer period of reflection, stating that his resignation was not related to the content of the current fight on the European scene, which is more fierce than ever. In this debate, you agree with and support the Government's position. On the basis of his decision, he added that participation in the day-to-day political struggle is an increasing psychological strain for him, and according to him, those who are in the arena must be ready to fight. Yeah. Those of us who knew the world of Fidesz and Bibo College knew precisely that it was not true in this form. József Szájer and his wife have been carrying the Fidesz system on their back for 30 years, and these people have always had the essence of fulfilling important positions in Hungary's public-law system, because that is what they deserve. We, who were able to think in a complex way, knew that this resignation had some kind of scandal behind it. On 1 December 2020, the bomb exploded, József Szájer, a 59-year-old Hungarian man, a Member of the European Parliament, a university professor, a Member of Parliament, married, father of a female child, in Brussels, during the coronal virus epidemic, in violation of the rules of control against the epidemic, participated in a 25-person homosexual orgy for men. When the police broke into the company, József Szájer did not, in an unworthy manner, stand before the police, taking responsibility, but, climbing out the window and climbing down the rainwater channel, fled the scene. The police went after him, caught him, and it turned out he had drugs in his bag. This makes the world press loud, which is why we should be ashamed, because even though our government lectures everyone in our international relations about everything, it can't show dignity in a situation like this. The entire policy of Fidesz has become a lie-hole in which hatred is glue. Every day, politicians who are noteworthy to citizens are being sent down by a stream of lies so that their modest performance is not noticed by the public. We all know that József Szájer's personal life has so far been no different than that of a healthy heterosexual who was involved in this orgy. It's private. Compared to this, Fidesz-KDNP is constantly attacking society with homophobic rhetoric, while society is thanking him, he is fine, he does not want to deal with these issues. People want to deal with what is needed to create a quality life. You are constantly proclaiming Christian-conservative spirituality, while many in their ranks behave in a way that is quite far from this spirit. József Szájer's case was only the tip of the iceberg, he was in the wrong place at the wrong time. No secret service has anything to do with this. Simply fate with the powerful help of József Szájer created the certainty that many had known for decades that József Szájer was enjoying himself in this way. It didn't have to matter to anyone, because everyone lives their private lives the way they want to. However, it is already a problem if our country's important representative lives in this way at European level, creating the opportunity to become blackmailable because of this way of life. You're risking not only yourself, but our entire nation. That's the problem. And then, adding further thought, this man's spouse ran the entire Hungarian court system for eight years, and now he's a constitutional judge. It is frightening to think how many times a situation may have occurred that József Szájer's compromising materials were presented by someone asking for a ruling in favor of a court case. 'Cause we've heard a lot about that. This is where the drug case is at the same time. That's nothing new. A lot of people in their ranks use this drug, and on social chat channels you can often hear about it. I've tried to get you off the drug charge myself, and that's why I've initiated the possibility of a drug test by Members. I've given you the opportunity to demonstrate, yes, you're clean, you're not using these drugs. But no, they voted against this, they voted against my proposal, and now József Szájer himself proved it on November 27, 2020 at night that that's why. I would just like to ask, my fellow Members from Fidesz, KDNP, if anyone will answer this question once: who are you? [[15.10]]
u2020-12-07-211	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr János Bencsik applied with the title of a new political movement under the name of "Civil Reply." You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am very pleased to announce that on Friday, 4 December 2020, we announced the birth of a new political movement called the Civil Reply. We wish to be the voice of those who have been disillusioned from the political set of the last 30 years, we represent those who are not represented now by neither NER nor O1 G, and our aim is to provide an alternative to those who wish to make a real change in 2022 without having to go back in time to 2002 and not to help again in power or to keep in power those political players who, in their very existence, are invincible to the change of government and who would do the best service to this nation by early retirement. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, My message to you is that you have denied and betrayed all the values that you once signed for the representation of civil Hungary. And to my fellow Members who oppose me, I am obliged to express the criticism that, while they want to meet everyone and be the voice of everyone, while fewer and fewer people are able to make their voices authentic, fewer and fewer people can be properly represented because of this coercion. I have the impression that in recent years we have drifted further and further away not only from the ideals of civil Hungary, but also from the diversity of the opposition and the long-awaited and followed renewal that most of the voters would expect not only from the government side but also from the opposition, which is precisely the zeroth step of the change of government: a complete renewal of opposition. I also firmly believe that opposition party leaders have not learned from their own failures. They learned the wrong lessons. The lesson learned in 2018 was that we lost the election to opposition parties and opposition representatives because we did not have close cooperation, we did not have enough cooperation. But the Borsodi interim election showed exactly that it wasn't. Fifty-five percent of opposition voters have been able to make 45 percent in five years with full cooperation. This is the sad lesson of the Borsodi interim election. I think that, although there may be a lot of debate between us, we may agree that the only way to change governments is to win insecure voters. And the main problem for these insecure voters is not that they do not see a broad enough or close enough cooperation, but that they do not know what will happen if Viktor Orbán fails, who, by the way, many people hold in power not because they love but because they do not have a better idea, because he cannot vote for someone else without a better choice. These voters can only be convinced by a credible, perceptive vision of what will happen in their lives the next day when the vote is over. I would also like to ask and draw your attention to the fact that it is not necessarily necessary to shout and betray an agent immediately if someone draws their attention to this and points out that he will not join the choir and who dares to speak out of the choir. It's a shame to pursue illusions, and it's a shame to push the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian voters into this illusion, that we just have to stick together even more, and now we've failed this election again, but it's okay, because now we're going to work together even more, and if we work together even more, we're going to win. If this is the illusion that the opposition is chasing itself into, and this is the illusion they're chasing the electorate into, then this is guaranteed to be a failure. I would also like to reassure those who doubt that the civil response will divide the opposition. I would like to point out that, not only will we not share the opposition, but we will involve precisely new voters. Our aim is that people who would never vote in their lives or vote in their own right would rather stay at home if they were put in such an impossible situation that they had to vote on a list with the name of Viktor Orbán and on the other list Ferenc Gyurcsány, we wanted to give these people the real choice, because there are many parties, if there is no real choice. Dear fellow citizens, I would now like to call on all our fellow Hungarians to work together. We want everyone, who is committed to the values of civil Hungary, which consists of respect for traditions, performanceism, self-organization, solidarity and responsibility towards one another, to create self-organising communities against the restorative party state system, and to help these self-organizing communities to achieve a civil form, a form of existence that involves not only freedom, but also the responsibility associated with freedom. Dear Parliament, As a Member, I have been trying to work in the direction of these principles, and I will strive to continue to do so, and I hope that more people will follow me in this work. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-213	Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, MEP, DK Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title "left hand, right hand". You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I spoke before the House on one occasion about the local problem of my constituency, Rákospalota and the first Hungarian railway line on its administrative border. This local problem is the common railway station of Rákospalota and Újpest and Rákospalota, the railway station which allows the two settlements or this part of the capital to be completed in 15-16 minutes on trains coming from the direction of Veresegyház and Vác as suburban railways. If this is to be done by car, contrary to the principles of sustainable development, 45 minutes on the M3 and about 45-50 minutes on the way to Újpest, and even a parking lot needs to be found. So the stop, the suburban railway, has a future, and even more has a future. What is my problem with that, and why have I brought this subject here again? I brought him here because I could have asked him as an immediate question that we would have done it, or I would have done it, because László Varju, my fellow Member of Parliament before me, is involved in this subject, but also today, seeing how the immediate questions were dealt with, I would consider the post- Agenda comment to be a little more, explaining the seriousness and importance of the problem. The problem is that it's been in this place for 110 years, at the Istvántelk stop, an overpass, a pedestrian overpass for passengers who arrive here, and who travels from here. This overpass was worn out, it would have been renovated for years, then the overpass was closed unannounced in June this year, and since then the overpass of Dugonics Street cannot be crossed, but the passengers chose the lighter one, the more witty one, in fact a Hungarian patent, a railway station with three pairs of rails, are on foot between the pebbles, and the pebbles have been quite well trampled and searched for their way out, of course, cut down this fence, witty people, and thus travel with children, animals, elderly people, disabled, this is their mode of transport. This is a patent that we owe to the MÁV. I asked in writing the Minister without a portfolio of trustees, the Minister, through her Secretary of State, gave her a negative reply, saying that they would break it down, let alone renovate it. At the same time, there is an alternative organization in Budapest, the Budapest Development Center, of which Dávid Vitézy is the CEO, because as it turns out, railway development in Budapest is part of it. And he, understanding this problem professionally, wrote the answer that the suburban railway development plans are now being made, and the renovation of this seems to him not to see it quite clearly, but he said that this renovation should be considered. [[15.20]] The address I gave to this little agenda is the left hand and the right hand. So, in fact, the professional hand is one of them, you know that it should be done, and the other hand knows that we are doing the Belgrade-Budapest railway construction for 700 billion forints rather than the construction of the overpass to help people living in Budapest or the environment and sustainable development. So it's a special MÁV technical solution, and it's actually a traffic scandal that everyone knows legitimately that people are crossing the rails, about 1000-1100 people travel every day, and these people have no solution. This is my second sign in this House. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-12-07-215	Dear Parliament, Member László Varju, DK Group also applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to report on major events in my constituency and perhaps to recommend to all those interested, some good practices, perhaps even a few good words before the holidays. I have repeatedly spoken between these walls about the program of the. Appreciation Plus, which was launched by the municipality in Újpesten. The essence of this was that our young citizens in Újpest received vouchers worth five thousand forints, which were used in the Újpest market, and was spent there, in a significant way strengthening the entrepreneurs in the area and especially in Újpest. The period of use is over, the program itself has been successful, but several people have indicated that their own vouchers have not been used yet, and it would be very suitable to be able to be used when approaching Christmas holidays. According to the decision of the competent authorities, the municipality and the mayor, and accordingly, vouchers can be extended until 31 December, so this will help all those who want to use it for purchase. But as the same good news, I can also share with you that Újpest was one of the participants in the invitation to tender announced by the National Association of Local Governments, in the competition with the best local government practices. Annex IV is amended as follows: The district applied for the work of the Újpest Animal Rescue League in the event of an emergency, and the experts of the programme had to present among the good practices of 19 municipalities what they could develop, according to the epidemiological situation. The head of the Animal Rescue League introduced and convinced the professional audience about the results of good practice. Among other things, the organization assists in the transport of sick animals to the doctor during the ad hoc curfew, but they also helped in other special situations, by joining them, even civilians were able to take part in dog walking. On November 8th, for example, an elderly couple who had been hospitalized for a coronal virus took their cat. At the end of the autumn, it is always a serious burden to collect and place green waste, and therefore, in the district, in the constituency, there was a possibility to use bags in a green zone environment requiring the collection of green waste. These bags were sent to the residents by municipal representatives and could be used to collect green waste so that they would not have a problem with placement. But I would like to use the last minute to join my fellow Member, Mr Hajdu, that between the right and the left hand, we are talking to deaf ears. Unfortunately, they do not hear that it is very unpleasant, I believe we have said so far that it is very unpleasant, but I would rather say that it is a very dangerous situation that comes from the insensitiveness of the Minister. That is, instead of renovating the overpass, which is the 15th. the area and the area referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011; it connects a district, they watch that people are forced to create no other opportunity to actually approach the railway station in a way that is otherwise dangerous to go to work and travel. Therefore, with my colleague László Hajdu, Mr. In consultation with the mayor of the district, Angéla Cserdiné Németh and Mr Tibor Déri, we draw attention to the need to change this situation immediately, whether it is the MÁV or the Ministry's responsibility. I do not want to conclude that they specifically want to ignore the initiatives of opposition authorities, to punish them, while, in fact, people are being punished when the state is acting like this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Hajdu applauds.]]
u2020-12-07-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group, also spoke after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to waste Parliament's precious time with a riddle. Former mayor Lajos Kósa sold it, we failed. László Papp, the current mayor bought it back, we failed. The state just nationalized it, we're gonna lose it. What? Well, don't chew your nails, 'cause I'm gonna tell you this is Debrecen airport. It seems that the airport in Debrecen has recently become a toy of unscrupulous Fidesz politicians, since in 2008 Lajos Kósa campaigned at the general meeting in Debrecen to ensure that only a private investor, otherwise well-known in Debrecen, and a private investor with a thousand connections to Lajos Kósa, can successfully operate the airport, which had been owned by the government until then. So he outsourced, privatized the municipal assets, of course, deep below the price. At that time, he had visions of huge developments, millions of passengers and profitable operations, and it was not only Lajos Kósa, but also the private investor who bought the airport at that time. Of course, everyone said that hurrah, this will be a huge profit, which will benefit the citizens of Debrecen. Of course, we know very well that it has not become a reality, but the state has, and let us not be surprised, supported the private airport in Debrecen abundantly in recent years, only between 2015 and 18 the airport in Debrecen received a total of HUF 1.2 billion state aid, of course without falling under the EU ban. This project was not so successful that other airlines than Wizz Air could not, in fact, be lured to the airport permanently, the airport passenger waiting room was more of a periodically operating Alaskan minivan than a picture of a European airport with a million visitors. And then just seven years later, and the mayor who's already had another dream, well, the dog knows that he could have seen this, or maybe another one of his bosses from Lendvay Street. László Papp, mayor of Debrecen, once again argued that an airport like the airport in Debrecen should not be run really well, profitablely, and I could also say that in a satisfactory way, only a municipality. So there was nothing to do, the municipality bought the airport from the owner of the so far private investor, and while the city will have to spend billions on the renovations that have been cancelled, the mayor admitted that, of course, but let's not be discouraged, because at the end of this story, the citizens of Debrecen will profit well. So the Fidesz majority assembly gave its blessing to nationalization at this time as well as to privatisation by Lajos Kósa just a few years ago. I hope this is as far as we can follow the story. Of course, the mayor painted the usual pink picture, and he thinks the money will be leaning, as the political role and affiliation of the municipality here might even help. I have to add, that's an interesting point of the story, but he knows. [[15.30]] But I have to add that it didn't help. After just one year of local government operations in 2019, we saw that Debrecen International Airport Kft. It brought a loss of HUF 428 million, although it stopped even for the previous owner, the private investor, at HUF 211 million. But it's okay, because after the initial difficult years, with the help of the state, the mayor said, because the lobbying force is inevitable in this system of macho to the sole, the airport will become a bright diamond for the city. I must add that it has not yet been, and it seems that it will not be, since we have just read a government resolution in which the government has simply announced that it wants 51 percent of the majority ownership of the airport. Otherwise, it's said that the government has einstantized the airport. In fact, it did so by providing the airport with a grant of HUF 720 million. That's when we thought he wanted to support the city. Well, it turns out the government basically only moved this money from one pocket to another, and it didn't turn out to be anything. And I'm afraid it's nowhere near the end of the story, because we're gonna sleep a few more, and we're gonna see that the nationalized airport will be named Mészáros, Gáncsi or perhaps the head of government's son-in-law. This is Fidesz Hungary! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is Fidesz's operation in Debrecen. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-07-219	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Gergely Arató, MEP, DK Group, asked for a speech with the title "bridge to nothing." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-07-220	Dear House, Here at the end of our journey after a slightly long agenda, we came back to Budapest, including South Pest and South Buda and East Pest, as a decision is being taken to build the Galvani Bridge, the bridge that connects South Buda and South Pest and connects it in a way that connects the road network on the Buda side, although it also needs significant development, but on the Pest side they want to build the road network that connects to it, all the way around, first to the corner of Üllői út, Border Road, then further, through Kőbány and Zugló as a long-term plan to M3. Yes, but as we learn more and more about this investment, it becomes more and more clear that this investment can only be made if it causes a very significant traffic flow to this area, to Ferencváros, Kispest, Kőbány and Zugló, because, for example, as we see the impact studies, it becomes clear that in the case of road construction, there will be a very significant increase in surface traffic, for example, on the border gentleman's section between Nagykőrösi út and Üllői út, which would make the lives of the inhabitants of Wekerletelep unbearable, and would in fact cause very serious damage and difficulties for the residents of Attila József, the Ferencváros part of the village, and, because of the expansion of the road, it would certainly result in the destruction of the small forest, the small forest between Ferencváros and Kispest. There are other plans that are more acceptable in terms of traffic, because they would put this road underground, but at the same time because of the need for a serious tunnel construction, they would be accompanied by a significant cut-off of thousands of trees. So the only way to solve this section of traffic is obviously totally unacceptable is to solve a huge car traffic on the surface, but it is not a good solution, and by the way, it is extremely expensive to put this car traffic under the ground, build a long tunnel, a road tunnel, and this would mean cutting down a large part of the forest and losing it. Obviously, none of the solutions are right, none of them are good. In addition, we do not yet get to the end of the problems, because the traffic that arrives on this road would follow to the area of Üllői út, and either it can continue its journey to Kispest, or it is moving inwards on the very crowded and full Üllői road between Kőbánya and József Attila settlements, and all three of them will happen, more precisely, and they plan to continue it on the way to Sava Street, and then, through Kőbánya and the Sharp Pole, on the way of King Lajos the Great, which is also extremely crowded today. This whole route is extremely crowded. In order to see the volume of traffic, traffic planners expect that this road would reduce the traffic of downtown by 37,000 cars a day. This is good for the people living in the city, of course, but this means that this 37,000 cars will appear in Kispesten and Kőbánya and Zuglo, which means they will be burdened with that area. In addition, it can be expected that it will even pull in part of the car traffic from M0 to within the city, thus creating a significant additional burden for South Buda, and more cars will appear. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this idea of improving transport has passed for at least 30-40 years. That's when the traffic engineers dreamed about the working road between M1 and M3 in the city, the city highway, but that's not what we're thinking about now. Today we know that building more roads will increase traffic, not less, but more cars. The money you want to spend on this is not for this, but for reducing traffic, for P+R parking, for the development of surface public transport, especially on fixed roads. If there is indeed a need to connect South Buda and South Pest with a new bridge, then rather than Strasbourg between the two coasts of the Rhine, the people of Kőbánya and Kispest do not ask for more cars, do not ask for more traffic and do not ask for Galvani Bridge.
u2020-12-07-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a speech after the agenda:. You have the floor.
u2020-12-07-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the end of the year, you usually take an account and think about the good and bad things that happened to him this year. The biggest problem of the year 2020 in Hungary is clearly the corona virus epidemic. From pensioners to middle - aged workers to young athletes, more than 254 thousand of our countrymen have been infected and nearly 6,000 people have died. In the last few days, Balázs Fecó has left us with Kossuth Prize winner, who proudly announced that he was a fan of the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club; he was 69 years old. Ferenc Tóth died former basketball player, MP who was an enthusiastic fan of Paks FC; he left us at 70. Mihály Laczkó, former president of the Hungarian Football Association, died, who reportedly caught the virus from his grandchildren; he was 85 years old. János Imrő, former vice president of the Hungarian Football Association, died; he was 61 years old. János Gróz died, former federal captain of the beach handball team, who was only 49 years old. This has been a terrible list of losses from sports for the last few days. God rest their soul. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike many, I do not claim that the Prime Minister of our country is responsible for these tragic events, the deaths of so many great people. It's not his fault that there's a virus. However, it is about the fact that he deceived Hungarian people, but it is his fault. He said that everyone can relax. If he catches this disease, we'll cure him. But it didn't come true, because Balázs Fecó died, Ferenc Tóth died, Mihály Laczkó died, János Imrő died, János Gróz died, and with them were 6 thousand of our compatriots, including grandmothers Somogyi, grandfathers, wives, husbands, friends, colleagues. Therefore, Prime Minister has given us a false sense of security, knowingly lied to us, or he has spoken in this area, listening to the advice of the people of Mihály Takács with knowledge and character. [[15.40]] As a result of the corona virus epidemic, many people who shouldn't have died, and many people who worked decently and a lot of hard work, have ruined their lives. And if the Fidesz government doesn't help people in trouble besides their own failure, it'll be too late for them when the last song is over. And then people will ask the question: what have you done to defend yourself? What were you doing hiding behind the serial? Is the rewriting of the electoral law more important than the fate of the Hungarian people? And I ask these questions: will you wait for the Hungarian people to turn on you, or will you start doing what you were elected to do? Are you going to start helping us, or are you going to sacrifice us on the altar of power? Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue with the lyrics of Balázs Fecó to teach all politicians:. When the last song is over / And the magic has already vanished / We will leave you alone with the noisy crowd, / You are wounded, and you do not know your place. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-12-07-223	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 14 December 2020. Thank you for your work. Meeting day's closed.
