u2020-11-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. I warmly welcome all my fellow Members and everyone who is monitoring our work today. Extraordinary meeting of the Parliament in the autumn is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. I would like to inform you that the Government, the Parliament Act, is 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament has initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held today. The letter and its attachment were all found on the website, not only by us, but also by the interested parties. We now have speeches before the agenda. On current affairs, the leader of the Szabó Timea Group from the Group of Dialogue applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the drastic deterioration of the epidemiological situation here, Viktor Orbán announced restrictions yesterday. Good morning. It's about time. The Dialogue presented two weeks ago a package of proposals for very similar measures, which you first lied about having withdrawn, and then started scolding the Dialogue about why we wanted to tighten up. Well, then this should now be discussed with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. The same proposals have been submitted by us: closed-gate football matches, restrictions on events, and the transition to online education in secondary schools and higher education institutions. But it seems that your own propaganda was more important then. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Time band of pensioners!]] Like protecting Hungarian people. Even yesterday Viktor Orbán made a fool of poor Csaba Dömötör, they forgot to tell him that he no longer scolds Gergely Christmas for wanting to take antigen tests on teachers, because Viktor Orbán is preparing to do the same. Overall, we welcome these proposals, and we are pleased that they have taken over the proposals of Dialogue and Christmas Gergely. [[István Szilárd Németh: Definitely! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But yesterday's announcements still require some fine-tuning. We hope that, for example, there will be exceptions to the curfew because of the fact that going to work, going to the doctor or the pharmacy, individual outdoor sports, and not least walking to the dog, will be excluded. I'm sure you all know that this affects hundreds of thousands of people. You can't take a dog for a walk between 8:00 and 6:00 in the morning. Let's hope that's one of the exceptions. We also hope that there will be some kind of response to how the transition to online education will be resolved in 6 and 8 high schools. It will be an amazing burden for teachers to do offline and online education at the same time, and they will not be able to do so. Not least, once again, social workers have been left out of this regulation. We are very pleased that teachers, kindergarten workers and daycare workers are finally tested, but here are the social workers, especially those working in nursing homes, and they are also at great risk. But in addition to fine-tuning, there is a bigger problem. Viktor Orbán says that we must copy Austria. That's perfectly all right, 90% of which has succeeded, but not on the most important issue, and this is how people who lose their jobs will be compensated for their lost wages. In Austria there is 80-90 percent replacement, yesterday Viktor Orbán still announced only 50 percent. That's not helping. Here, too, is an example of Austria! Don't help Lőrince Mészáros, István Tiborcz again economically, don't be such fake measures that hotel reservations before 8 November will be reimbursed by the government. I'd like to see that all of a sudden a lot of reservations were made in Lőrinc Mészáros' hotels before November 8, which, we know, is false. Who's booking for November-December? Suddenly, we will be able to support him again in a large lot, while the hundreds of thousands of people who actually lose their jobs or lose their wages will not be able to do so again. Do not repeat what you did in the spring, that you will spend 200 billion forints to supplement the salary of 500,000 people, and that Lőrinc Mészáros received 186 billion forints alone. This should not be the other way around, but all the support should be spent on people's falling wages. There is only one solution, my fellow Members, and the immediate introduction of the basic income for crisis management. The basic income of the Dialogue Crisis Manager suggests that the monthly income of every person who has lost his job or suffered a wage loss should be added to HUF 100,000. This helps the workers, helps the families, helps the troubled. According to a recent research, 73 percent of Hungarians, including 63 percent of Fidesz voters, support the introduction of the basic income. There's money for this, it can be introduced immediately, but it's not Lőrinc Mészáros that needs to be used to help people. At last, listen to the voters, and give the people some real help. Thank you. [[Dr. Bertalan Toth applauds. Nacsa Lawrence: Szabó Timea: You'll get...]]
u2020-11-10-2	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech made before the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-10-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Listening to what they have to say these days, you're saying several things at the same time. Tell me nothing happened. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Otherwise, nothing, it's late, and by the way, you suggested it. Well, it's kind of hard to figure out any logic, but maybe that's not the most important thing to do right now. One thing is clear: we did not propose in writing that older people should not be able to use public transport. [[Szabó Timea: Are you in? We didn't suggest that. The president's ringing the bell.]] The decisions announced yesterday have a double purpose. On the one hand, the number of diseases must be reduced and on the other hand the burden on doctors and health workers should be reduced. The fundamental fact remains that the epidemic is raging throughout Europe, and Hungary is not spared, and only the vaccine can be a lasting solution. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of deaths per 100,000 people in Hungary is half the EU average. I can see from the sounds of the last few days that they are looking for an indicator with a magnifying glass where Hungary is the worst, spectacularly rooting for the epidemic. They're not really attacking the government, they're attacking the efforts of health workers. We're used to these actions here in the House, but it's not right for you to attack Müller Cecília in the style of the usual provocator. For the rest of the time, I ask that doctors and professionals not be attacked during this period. They don't need your attacks, they need your support. More than anything else, your attitude is that you will continue to protect Lajos Korózs, who contributed to the fight against the epidemic with a terrible kamuvido. [[Szabó Timea: Why didn't you press charges?]] [[Szabó Timea: Why didn't you press charges?]] You defended him yesterday at the committee meeting, which we are not surprised to see, Madam honourable Member, because you were on tour here in this House, from the same chair, with this lie. You lied to me that 9 out of 10 people die. What a shame! (Szabó Timea: Why didn't you press charges?) What a shame! As long as there are no consequences for the Kamuvideo, you simply have no basis to lecture anyone. [[Szabó Timea: You lie day and night...]]
u2020-11-10-4	Mrs. Freckles! Would you please reduce yourself? I hear you screaming at me all the time. Why do you want me to cut you out of the debate? [[Szabó Timea: Lying is hard to bear! It's heavy.]]
u2020-11-10-5	I fully understand, Your Honour, that you are very tense. He's tense because you lied here in public. [[Szabó Timea: Me? You lied!]] Therefore, actions, consequences and apologies are needed. I'm asking you to do it. As far as economic aspects are concerned, we know that the measures notified also have an economic impact, but the objective remains the same: to protect all jobs and then create new ones. That's why the accommodations get 80% compensation. Therefore, restaurants do not have to pay contributions and that is why the state pays half the wages. [[10.10]] I heard you say in a morning radio interview that 80 percent compensation for accommodations is a lie, because there are no November reservations, and that is what you've practically sensed. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that you have booked 928 thousand guest nights in November, which is nearly one million. That's what you're saying, nothing. [[Szabó Timea: Lőrinc Ripper!]] That's what you're saying, nothing. More fake news! If you no longer want to help the hosts, at least don't lie about the subsidies, at least not now, Madam honourable Member, especially if it is one of your mayors who has even increased their burden. They're reducing the burden of the hosts everywhere, and you're increasing it, but City Hall is no better, because they're thinking about a general tax increase there. The tax increase, honourable Member, is not a solution; after the 2008 crisis, there was neither a solution nor a career, not because it does not create jobs, but eliminates them. I don't know how you're afraid of jobs, but if you are, you must be afraid of this left-wing policy. So, ladies and gentlemen, even if you turn the volume higher, even if you get angry at all your anti-government outbursts, even if you yell here at the sitting, it doesn't make you forget the performance of the left during the epidemic: false news, blocking decisions. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] and the ongoing attack on health management. This is not what the country would expect from you in a difficult situation. It's time for a change. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Lóránt Group, from the Group of the LMP, also called on to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, again, I will start by thanking everyone who is working in the first line today to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. I would like to confront Mr Csaba Dömötör with just one thought: last Monday, before the agenda, I spoke about the fact that the experts appointed and entrusted by you expect you to tighten up and take more stringent measures. At the time, Attila Fülöp replied, and he said almost literally the following on Monday:, The Government's resolution is clear: we do not want any further restrictions, but we want the measures that are good to be followed by everyone. So much for your consistent policy. On this day, the government has already discussed further restrictions, but I can draw attention to the fact that already on 2 October, Ferenc Jakab, professor of virology, made very strict statements in the press; he is the head of the Crown Virus Research Group of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. I have already quoted several times how you have commented on the Professor's statement, on raising the Professor's awareness. Now, in a little general way, how you handle the epidemic and what economic measures are being taken, we can say that only what we have seen this year tells us a lot about your policy, your governance, and a very clear picture of what is the fundamental element of your governance and your philosophy. What they did, and what they didn't do, well shows what the point is or what one of the components of your work is. There's a lot of talk about you guys setting up a so-called capital knife class, a big capital knife layer, and this moonyard of its own is pumped up by huge billions, capitalizing it. You are talking about, by the way, I am experiencing even the middle class of their own political circles being led to believe that when the problem comes, when there is a crisis, this big capitalist class can be expected, then they will help, they will create stability, and they will pull the country out of trouble, and in general some kind of development will be established by these national oligarchs and national capitalists. Now, the trouble has come, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, and it has come to light in this very difficult year that these national oligarchs, these capitalists, cannot be expected at any level, and you cannot be expected that when we propose that these vast assets, which have come from public property to your moonyard, be taxed, and now at least some of them are involved in protecting the most difficult people in this situation, you reject these proposals. And it is also shocking that even this year, when a shocking pandemic has reached Hungary, and when a very, very deep crisis has already unfolded, and it is getting deeper, even then you are dealing with further capitalising this capitalist layer and pumping huge billions into it, even at a price that will deprive Hungarian people of the most important public services. The municipalities are subject to constant restrictions, but let it be clear to everyone that when you take away huge revenue from the municipalities, they are not attacking the cities, they are not attacking the municipalities, they are not hurting the cities, they are hurting the people who live there. The withdrawal of the car tax, we can say, at all municipal levels, but mostly the huge loss for small settlements, and these settlements also have a lot of work to do. Small settlements and the mid-towns of Hungary, big cities, are also the number one bastions of defense, and instead of giving you the opportunity to do your job in this critical period, you are imposing restrictions on them. Allow the water utility sector to fall, last week an amazing additional motion was tabled by its representatives, which makes the problems even more difficult. They have withdrawn from the financing of local public transport. You were quite right to take a government measure last week requiring the frequency of public transport to be compressed, but at the same time you have withdrawn resources and make it impossible for this very important task to be carried out in order not to create congestion. And we can see that even universities are being reduced. When we present proposals to you that would basically help families and people in the most difficult situation, for example, to reduce VAT on basic foods, which would really help families in the most difficult situation, or to give social workers a one-time allowance of HUF 500 000 for their sacrifices, then you are already openly expressing that the budget reserves are exhausted, there is no budgetary resources. Meanwhile, in May this year, I repeat, during a period of severe epidemic, during an economic crisis, you have encrypted and accelerated the Budapest-Belgrád railway project that costs a thousand billion dollars with everything. Only this year, so this year and next year, you will burn enough money for the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which would be equivalent to the creation of 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs, so it would be sufficient. What I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen of State, is that what you are doing this year is not a government error, but a serious sin. Thank you.
u2020-11-10-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, We absolutely agree with the beginning of your speech, we are grateful, and we thank all health professionals, doctors, nurses and other contributors for working above strength and saving the health and life of Hungarian people. They're our heroes, and they deserve respect, and we agree on that. But, honourable Member, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that what you are saying should be said as a compliment that we are constantly consulting with the leaders of various professional organisations, the most serious professors, scientists and epidemiological experts. There are countless analyses, research and development in the country that contribute to the protection of Hungarian scientific life. We think that there is a place for us to talk to these professionals, to listen to the advice of these professionals, and then to make the necessary decisions. It is especially difficult for you and your left-wing fellow politicians to pick on certain professionals and start attacking them. We have seen this over the last few months that you do not have any moral barrier, any excellent professional, any excellent health manager you attack, you are targeted and you are trying to discredit. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Me?]] Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the outbreak is taking off. We see the situation in Europe, we see the numbers in the world, we see that all countries in Europe are really struggling with the epidemic, and we need continuous action. And, honourable Member, allow me to refuse that you are attacking us because we are taking measures, you are attacking us because we are constantly considering the current situation, we are constantly looking at the current figures, we are constantly looking at what decisions are needed, we involve the relevant professionals partly on the health side, partly on the science side, partly on the economic side, and we are consulting them, and we are listening to their opinions and we are taking the necessary decisions. Congressman! The truth is, although you claim that you are making suggestions and that you have a substantial attitude towards combating the epidemic, unfortunately, this is not the reality. [[10.20]] If we look at the performance of the left in the fight against the epidemic, we can see that the Kamuvideos Korózs, the pseudo-famous Dialogue faction, and, by the way, all the speeches, all the political statements that want to gain their own political benefit from the attack on the protection against the epidemic, which are quite unworthy. They're completely unworthy and shameful! And we can also see that if it were up to left-wing politicians, including you, then certainly the steps needed to defend them would not have the support. You also did not vote for the government to have the necessary authority and opportunity to defend itself properly during the first wave. You have not voted that we can give the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, the necessary support and assistance. If it were up to you and your left-wing colleagues, there would not be a moratorium on loan repayment today, then there would not be wage support, then there would not be all the opportunities with which we helped Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, After all, I think that every sentence you've said is untrue. You have never supported the measures needed to protect yourself. I sincerely hope that this will change today, take responsibility and finally support our presentation. Honourable Congressman, You have a lot to do with local governments, let me have one sentence. Everyone is needed in defence, we also need individual protection, and we need the state, the municipality, the companies, the businesses, everyone to take their part in the defense. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Lőrinc Ripper?]] We also need local authorities here, honourable Member. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm asking you to understand that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the DK Group: Mr Gergely Arató applied to speak before the agenda with the title of current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-11	Dear House, Today, the government woke up to a dramatic day, a day when we found out where your six-month irresponsible policy led. If I were merely to get information from the government's propaganda, I'd be wondering what happened. I mean, I was talking about the fact that there's almost an infinite health capacity here, and I'm sorry, there's almost unlimited health capacity to quote the Prime Minister. It was said that the government was in control of the events, and I quote once again: the defense is connected to the perfect one. I'll quote again, we're looking forward to the second wave, armed to the teeth. We were talking, honourable House, about Hungary having to work. They kept repeating this campaign slogan: Hungary has to work, and today, today at midnight, the country will be shut down. That's what happened. You lied to the people that everything is in order, and then you pull the Hungarian economy's plug out of the outlet from one moment to the next. If I didn't know the truth, I would ask you what happened, Honourable Government. What happened from Sunday to Monday? How did the cat take the perfect defense in one night? Of course, we know very well the answers to these questions, and we have seen what has happened, and we wish we hadn't had to watch it. That's what happened. We're here today because they didn't do anything. They didn't do anything for six months. They didn't do anything in the summer, when testing capacity could have been multiplied, education could have been prepared, and health could have been prepared for the second wave when businesses and jobs could have been strengthened. They didn't do anything in the fall when they were supposed to start mass testing in schools, kindergartens, health institutions, social institutions. You were swaying peacefully on the Adriatic yachts, sipping champagne, and doing nothing. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Why are you yelling?]] They didn't prepare health care, they didn't prepare schools, they didn't prepare the CDC, they didn't prepare the economy. And make no mistake, we are not attacking those who are still taking part in the defense today, who are standing next to the sickbeds, who are going into the classrooms, who are taking care of elderly people in social services, who are organizing care for people in distress. We criticize you, we criticize you, who abandoned you and betrayed these people. You have betrayed the Hungarian people and have betrayed those who are fighting the epidemic at the risk of their lives and health. Even as opposition, I hoped that I would never have to say what I'm about to say: you've lost control of the epidemic, you've lost control of the fate of this country. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] They lost the fight against the epidemic and lost the fight against the economic crisis. Well, unlike the latter, they didn't really start. The tight and extremely poorly functioning wage support system was also abolished in August, when, by the way, this programme was extended and strengthened in other countries. They did not provide any direct support to people who lost their jobs because of the crisis, nor were they even willing to extend the extremely narrow unemployment benefits. They did not provide additional support to pensioners and older people, and they did not support the fight and defence of municipalities against the epidemic, but, on the contrary, they took away their resources and took away their powers. It is time to finally be honest with the country and tell the truth to the Hungarians: they have to stop the country now because of their own carelessness. It's time for people to know the truth. So tell them to their eyes: they have shut down the country because they have not tested enough because they have not done anything. And I don't want to take up expensive time saying, [[Németh Szilárd István: Then sit down!]] Who was right in previous debates, but I have to remind you that when we said earlier that if they did not start mass and free testing, we would sooner or later have to shut down the country, then Máté Kocsis Fideszes Group leader responded, and I quote: Ferenc Gyurcsány turned the fake news factory into a higher turn after the summer savings light. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You're still saying it's fake news about the country's closure? Are they still saying we don't have to shut down the country? Or what happened again was that they lied until exactly what we told them happened. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I am very sorry for this country, for our country, because what you have done will have very serious consequences, and you are responsible only and exclusively for this.
u2020-11-10-12	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr Orbán's speech before the agenda will be given by Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You repeated the sentence that you have lost control. Let me begin with this sentence: you have lost control of your own common sense. [[Németh Szilárd István: The medicine also rolled away.]] Yeah. In one sentence, you demanded security measures, and in the next sentence, you attacked security measures. In one sentence, he agreed on previous measures and in the other sentence he attacked earlier measures. By the way, he was also talking about fake news. The false news that the Gyurcsány Party has been spreading over the past few months can be classified for a long time, such as the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev, took the lead in fake news production when she said that in Hungary eight out of ten tests should be paid. That just wasn't true. Or, for example, you took the lead in fake news production when, on the one hand, in the spring, you talked about the introduction of an extraordinary legal order as a means of building dictatorship and having nothing to do with the protection against the coronal virus. In fact, when the defence against the spring first wave was closed by the government and the extraordinary mandate was returned to Parliament, you did not stop producing false news, because at that time you said that it was a fake, that is not true, that there is still a special legal status, and that it is still all about building the entire power. It's obvious that wasn't true. And by the way, about the defense, you gave me a chronology. Well, then let's talk a little bit about this chronological order of defense. We were among the first in Europe to recognize the seriousness of this epidemic. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and its dangers for Hungarian people, the very early establishment of the operational tribe and the very early introduction of the first wave protection measures have also shown this. [[10.30]] We were able to defend ourselves effectively in the first wave of the epidemic, and then when we returned the special legal order... I say once again that you were not in favour of any of these measures, whether they were intended to protect life, health or the economy. Neither did they support the introduction of the special legal order itself, nor did they constantly attack the government and those involved in the disease control, rather than supporting the government's defence measures like other countries. In other countries, interestingly, the opposition knew what it was supposed to do in a cooperation and did not regard the government's attack as its number one priority. Then, in the summer, we talked constantly about the acquisition of assets, about the need to prepare for the second or third wave. You were constantly attacking this preparatory work. The problem once was that we didn't get enough ventilators, and then there were too many ventilators. The problem once was that we'd freed up too many hospital beds, and then the problem was that there weren't enough hospital beds. We have said that the fight against the epidemic in the second wave is taking place along a different strategy, that we have taken serious restrictive measures, and, by the way, in our ongoing consultation with professionals, we believe that the moment has now come when it is necessary to re-introduce the exceptional legal order and to introduce even more stringent restrictive measures. We believe that these measures are necessary and important, right, in the context of the protection of life and human health, and on the other hand, you can see that the economic protection measures that you have not previously supported are already in place to protect the economy; for example, the issue of a moratorium on credit or, for example, the eviction moratorium at the previous stage. But here are the family support, housing programmes and special support schemes for the worst-cased sectors, which we can also decide in the extraordinary legal order. The lucky thing about politics is that there is always room for improvement, so you have the opportunity to support the country's defence for the first time, not for their own political gain. I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act and the introduction of the extraordinary legal order and of the tightening of measures instead of false news production. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We used to say time flies. From spring to autumn, this summer flew by fast. However, in terms of the protection against the coronal virus, this has been a very long time, and this extremely long time has passed, at least from the point of view of protection. Of course, there was Adria, yacht, vacation, Balchi, there was help for Lőrinc Mészáros, the hunting exhibition, the Tennis Association. But don't pretend you didn't know the second wave was coming. It's not the sea, it's the virus. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How witty!]] The virologists told me it could be a big problem, and then they disappeared from the screen. In the spring, they said there was going to be a vaccine in the fall, but unfortunately, there was no vaccine. Then what have you done to keep the current and the expected situation from developing? Three serious mistakes must have been made. Even though they said they didn't prepare the health care system for the expected situation, they didn't expand the test capacity, they didn't provide professional training. The Hungarian Medical Chamber not only identified the wage increase as the necessary measure, but made proposals to the operational tribe in April on honest communication, testing, contact research, intensive care, sick roads and isolation. Nothing happened in these cases, apparently. They didn't prepare the education system. They served the teachers, forced them to keep secrets. Another mistake is that they gave the Hungarian people a false sense of security. They expected masks, distance, but they let thousands of people together in the stadiums. What people saw, hugging thousands of people together. What example was this? ! The restrictions announced a week ago, if they could be called free parking, the curfew from midnight to five, gave the false sense of security another stroke, that that was not enough; because Prime Minister said that this would be enough. These measures were to quote a classic, like a lock on a canvas bag. And in the meantime, people are being called to account for the spread of the virus. The third serious mistake is that, due to delayed and narrow support, millions have been in difficulty: families, pensioners, workers. Food prices have risen, pensions have risen slightly, and normative family subsidies are nothing. Because of the flexible working hours framework, many workers have fallen from overtime, shift allowances, and their incomes have been reduced. They did not increase both the time and the amount of unemployment benefit. They don't provide 100% sick for certified Covid patients, so they don't dare report their illness because they're afraid of losing their income. The oppression and inability of local governments is a despicable political vendetta. Today, the Prime Minister didn't come to Parliament, he didn't come here to ask for another mandate. He sent away some of his brave men. Right, now he's done the gesture I asked him to make this spring. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Although then he hit the opposition's outstretched hand. Now it's set a time limit for the extraordinary mandate. All right, we'll give you that. But, Prime Minister, I'm telling you from here, this isn't about trust anymore. It's about responsibility. From now on, you can't point fingers at anyone, everything you do or don't do is your responsibility and your government's responsibility. The government has all the tools, the money, the steed, the gun. I ask Mr. Prime Minister, perhaps you will hear: do not gamble with our lives, with the lives of thousands of people, because each one is a man, not a statistical number; not just an old, chronic patient, but a mother, a father, a grandmother, a grandfather. I ask the Prime Minister not for power to matter now, but for human life. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-10-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, If you look around Europe and look around the world, you're reading news that I think our age hasn't read about the epidemic since human memory and in any other situation. You can see that strong countries such as France or rich countries like Belgium are thinking about making plans and starting implementing them by trying to treat patients in their own country in other countries, Germany, because the capacity of their own hospitals is already full. Even for large countries like France, this is now becoming a daily practice. You can read from several countries that doctors and nurses are invited to work in the care of patients with coronal virus, who are themselves coronal viral patients. Perhaps we have never before read news that in some countries the police are already helping ambulances, because ambulances are so far beyond their own capacities in countries richer than us that the police are already helping rescuers. You can read from several countries that patients who do not require more intensive treatment are no longer placed in hospitals because they have run out of beds in hospitals, run out of beds in hospital corridors, have run out of beds, and ambulances are unable to deliver these patients to other hospitals, but in other countries they are putting patients who, say, do not need to be assisted in an invasive way by a ventilator. You can also read a lot of news that patients with milder symptoms and healing are not placed in hotels, but are sent home to their own apartments. More and more countries are getting news that it is only a week or a week away, and the health system in one country reaches its full health capacity. [[10.40]] This is the time we are living in, and I believe that what happened in Hungary, honourable Member, in spring, summer and this autumn, is that all patients, all patients with coronal viruses, have room in Hungarian hospitals, there is bed, there is equipment and there is a doctor; that Hungary is in a beating place both in the number of hospital beds and in the number of ventilators, which shows that the government, honourable Member, has worked and has achieved a lot of results. He has achieved a lot of results in order to be more prepared in the fall, when there is a second wave. The second wave, honourable Member, was not called into question by us. Perhaps you should talk to, say, the politicians of a dialogue with you on a list, such as Richard Barabás, who said at his press conference in August 2020 that the government could provide information on what he bases his second wave in September on which they are constantly talking. Perhaps first, on their own political side, within the left, they will clarify to each other what anyone has said: will there be a second wave or not? In a list with you, the MSZP and the Dialogue, a politician on the list of the Christmas party, made quite controversial statements about this, not to mention that Jávor Benedek, a representative of Budapest in Brussels, former left-wing politician, said that the coronal virus epidemic would be relatively inexpensive and harmless. You have not been idle either, Mr honourable Member, but you have not helped the defence, but you have produced false news both in Hungary and abroad. They ran abroad and said that Parliament does not work in Hungary, there are no protective equipment. Let me tell you numbers for this too. When the epidemic broke out all over the world, there were 1.6 million masks in Hungary when we prepared for the second wave, not 1.6 million, but 100 million. When the world was hit at the beginning of the year, there were 20 million pairs of rubber gloves in Hungary, and for the second wave Hungary had 95 million pairs of rubber gloves. At the time 2560 ventilators were available, now well over 10,000 are available in Hungary. But you didn't help us with this job, you made fake news. The only subject you lacked in your speech, honourable Member, is how you stand with Lajos Korózs; with the Lajos Korózs, who made a chauvideo under protection in order to destroy people's trust in the health system, because in that Kamuvideo, they claimed that nine out of ten patients from hospitals die in Hungary, which is completely untrue. It's as unreal as the introduction of the character that Lajos Korózs did. And you didn't reprimand Lajos Korózs, you shared that video. They conducted the ethical procedure in one day and found that there was no major problem, and they did not even apologize, and that was five months ago, honourable Member. And Lajos Korózs, let alone apologize and retire the health inspector [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He also manufactures camouflage with fake statistics during the autumn, second wave. That's what you should be dealing with. That's what you can do to help protect yourself. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-10-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to start by thanking all health, social and even law enforcement workers, as well as all Hungarian workers who take part in the defence and keep those instructions, the restrictions that we hope will be more effective. We know that a very difficult time is coming, and their appreciation is extremely important to all of us. But since we have already talked about tightening up and the announced tightening of the previous day, it is clear that what the Prime Minister announced yesterday was both a capitulation and a confession. The confession and the capitulation were before the virus on the one hand, and on the other hand it was a confession that Viktor Orbán actually let the virus dictate the pace in the autumn, and Hungary could not take that pace. It is also clear that training was the narrowest point where the government did not do the right work. We've talked about a thousand times that they basically elliuxus yachted the summer and basically said that we needed more Balaton, less Adria; we really needed more preparation. Certainly, both health institutions, social institutions and therefore local governments, but what is very important, education institutions could also have been prepared. It relates to what could have been prepared. Free and extensive testing would have been the best way to prepare the country to avoid a very severe outbreak of the epidemic where we are now. In order to do this, however, you would have had to develop the testing capacity to a sufficient degree, and every Hungarian citizen would have had the right to be tested; and then we would certainly have been able to prevent teachers in our educational institutions from paying with their lives because of the epidemic; or otherwise, health workers later, taking this brutally difficult job, paying with their lives for the second wave. So the solution was clear. Not only have you been armed to the teeth, but you have given a great deal of attention to how testing will be carried out, and to this day the Hungarian system is unable to jump to the level with which it has the opportunity to properly screen and review. And speaking of tools, it is an example of how serious preparation was not taken, the mask factory in Tátaljaújhely, which is operated in the Bv institution, which has been said to be able to deliver a million times, and it has now come to light that it has been able to deliver 4,600 pieces for the period when you said it was worth millions. That's the real irresponsible thing to do. If there was trouble, or if it wasn't a good time, it would have been an opportunity to get into it this summer. It is also necessary to remind everyone what Viktor Orbán said about what would happen if people went to the hospital. He said we'd heal everyone. On the one hand, this was an irresponsible statement, and even though you were right, it seems that you have failed to prepare health institutions, and despite the dedication and well-mannered workers who deserve respect, they are not able to cope with this burden now either. Orbán admitted in his announcement yesterday that Hungary is approaching the level of capacity at which hospitals will not be able to bear the burden. Following Viktor Orbán's admission, he pretty much opened the logical conclusion for us that, until the spring, the question was how he would otherwise be, and we saw that the country is defending relatively well, now, in the autumn, the question of when Hungary will become Bergamo. We hope that it will never be, and the defense can be successful. There we are in Hungary, by the way, and it was also your job to postpone surgeries before football matches. And so much about the battle plan that the Prime Minister keeps talking about, that you think it's a battle plan to make a servile copy of Austria. As the announcement of the current restrictions was essentially nothing but that they had caught it and copied the Austrian tightenings word for word. We must say that the order that Viktor Orbán has just given is not an order and not a plan of war, but essentially a scam; it is the same cheating that is usually carried out at the school, and the result is that Mr Orbán will fail with it. Orbán gave only one kind of order in this plan of war, seeing the Austrian pattern, namely that it was cut and inserted. It was the only command he could give to protect the country. Despite the suggestions of the people and the experts, he did nothing but copy the Austrians in a slave manner. Much more and significantly more serious measures are expected for the government. But here we are at the mandate: in this connection, we must say that Viktor Orbán will be given the authority, but from now on he will also have to take responsibility. It's gonna be his economy. If you shut down the economy, it'll be his decision, it'll be his health care. If he can't and doesn't want to save people, it's his health care, his decision, and his responsibility. All we can say about this is that God saves Hungary! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-10-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, we will hear the answer from Secretary-General Bence Rétvári in his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech lacked numbers and facts. There was a lot of accusations, a lot of criticism of the government, just the consistency, the facts and the numbers that were missing. The best way to describe your speeches here in Parliament is that whatever the government says, you are always against it. The government's decisions are obviously influenced by a lot of things, including the course of the epidemic, when it's in the ascending branch, when it's in the descending branch. Based on this, the government consults many health professionals, virologists, doctors, leaders, scientists, researchers constantly. The operational tribe also listens to the various opinions and then makes decisions, always at the current stage, either in terms of health protection or in terms of economic protection. [[10.50]] That's what the government does. The opposition does only one thing: it always opposes the government, has no clear image, no strategy for the opposition. This is well shown by the fact that a draft resolution will be presented here in Parliament one week, with which even pensioners will be ordered off the BKV and withdrawn in the following days; one day a referendum will be initiated with reference to the epidemic, and then a few weeks later it will be said that the referendum initiative will be withdrawn because of the epidemic, because a referendum cannot be held during an epidemic period. There is total confusion on the opposition side, there is no consistency whatsoever. A good example of this is your political career as an exporter of medicine at the same time, and then you complain that there are few doctors in hospitals at the time of the outbreak. I should have thought of that a little earlier. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, In the face of your accusations, let me tell you the facts, let me give you the numbers. Here in the choir you have tried to say that in Hungary the protection against the virus is not effective, it is not effective because there are many dead people. Obviously, we want everyone's life to be protected, as far as possible, in the coronal virus epidemic. However, if you look around the world, honourable Member, let me give you a number or two. I do not want to disturb your thinking and your text writing, but let me say one or two numbers to you: in Hungary, the number of deaths per million inhabitants is 255; in Canada is higher; in Switzerland, higher; in Portugal, higher; in Luxembourg, higher; in Ireland, higher; in the Czech Republic higher; in the Netherlands, higher; in Sweden, two and a half times; in France, higher; in the United States, three times; in Spain, three times higher; in Belgium, four and a half times higher; and if you look at the average of the Union, honourable Member, it is also one and a half times higher. There is obviously a part in every defence system, even in the best working place, that can be improved, but don't argue with the Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses and the collaborators in the defence system that Hungary is not one of the richer countries in the European Union, but it is one of the more defensive countries. Not because we have the most money in the economy, but because we have been able to organize something better than other countries that are richer than us. They started from a better position, because they had more money in every field, from Canada to Switzerland to England, each with more money in its economy, each with a larger budget, both the hospital system and the police and the entire economic sphere. However, despite the fact that Hungary was economically disadvantaged compared to these countries, Hungary made better choices in defence and was able to save the health of several citizens and save their lives. I think it's important. I think it's a success. I think it's a success for all of us, including health care workers, nurses who are actually doing the same amount of work they've never done before, especially in intensive care. That's why we're doing all the other procrastinations that don't involve endangering life or risking health, so that everyone can focus on treating patients with coronal viruses right now. Of course, you attacked this during the spring wave, and during the autumn wave, it seems you said you should have introduced it earlier. We did these things. Contrary to what the left has done in Hungary, today the patients with the coronal virus should pay a visit fee and a hospital daily allowance for treatment. Then I'm sure these numbers would be worse. I think we should be glad that the opposition's hasty policy is not in place. An example of this was: the consequences were seen in Budapest, the home of the elderly on Pesti Road. It is fortunate that Hungary is making prudent decisions and is successfully defending itself against the coronal virus epidemic in the second wave. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The government also increases the support of families during the epidemic! Mr Szászfalvi, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been a decade now since the Orbán governments made a paradigm shift in the area of family support and state social policy. Over the past ten years, we have introduced a number of measures that strengthen families' livelihoods and homes: family tax relief, first-wives' discount, ged extra, free textbooks, free children's meals, and since 2015 the family home-building discount, i.e. CSOK, was introduced. However, the Hungarian government did not stop here last year, based on a successful national consultation, we introduced the seven-point family protection action plan, all the elements of which have been in place since this year: the release of mortgage loans, baby shower support, interest-supported loan related to the purchase of unused property and the CSOK, support for car purchases of large family members, the introduction of four-child women's child-free and grandparents' children. Thanks to all these measures, support for families has increased year after year in the budget, not at any rate of GDP in the European Union, as we are at the forefront. Meanwhile, left-wing parties attacked a series of measures aimed at strengthening families, saying that they could not be used by people, while CSOK alone is one of the most successful government initiatives, since between 2015 and 2020, the government provided some HUF 1000 billion of non-refundable and partly reimbursable support to families in a way affecting more than 650 thousand Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, This year, too, our country faces an unprecedented global epidemic that affects all aspects of our lives. For the world, the social and economic effects of the corona virus are far more severe than the global economic crisis in 2008. And we can still remember how the left, led by Gyurcsány, led our country to the brink of bankruptcy: the global economic crisis was exacerbated by further austerity, thus pushing Hungarian people and Hungarian families into complete vulnerability and hopelessness. Gyurcsányek not only bled out the country's economy, but also the family support system and health care. Lajos Molnár, then Minister of Health, recalls that Ferenc Gyurcsány put police procedures in place against doctors to make an example of it and attack health and health workers. They are still making a despicable political game and party politics out of the heroic fight against the pandemic. The left-wing parties, including Ferenc Gyurcsány himself, share the senses, reason and criticize, and I think that they have no moral basis for all this. On the other hand, the national government does not introduce a multitude of restrictions to the economic problems caused by the coronal virus epidemic, but deals with the situation with rapid and concrete economic protection measures and health protection measures. But in addition to health care and the economy, families are also not forgotten, in the midst of the epidemic, the government, under the leadership of Minister Katalin Novák, has developed new measures to help families get home, a new home-building action plan. Dear Parliament, I would just like to mention a few measures that have been notified here as an example: the introduction of a 5-percent VAT discount for the purchase of newly built properties, families with at least one child are completely exempt from paying VAT after buying a home with a CSOK, and I think that one of the most popular measures in the countryside will be the support of the home renovation programme, through which half of the renovation costs will be taken by the state up to HUF 3 million. Dear Parliament, The aim of these planned measures is to further support and help Hungarian families, as the key to the future of the Hungarian nation is the strengthening of families. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party fully supports these measures of the Government, this government programme, and we ask all Members of the Parliament and all the factions to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[11.00]]
u2020-11-10-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank everyone in advance for their help, who will help us to create our home creation programme. I agree with Mr President that a family-friendly turn has taken place in Hungary after the change of government in 2010. If we look back at those days, we had no choice but to strengthen the country that was then in bankruptcy in cooperation with the Hungarian people. Hungarian families, as we all remember, remember it, and by 2010, they were in a very difficult situation. After 2002, the left-wing governments removed the family tax relief that had been introduced earlier, and therefore took money away from raising children - they discontinued the home creation programme; moreover, the families were thrown into a foreign currency loan trap, and in 2008, when the crisis really came, they abandoned the Hungarian families, and this put them in a very difficult situation. Before 2010, the then Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments remembered everything about austerity. Remember, they took away a month's pension, raised the retirement age, took away the regular child protection allowance, shortened the duration of the child, increased the price of energy 15 times, three times the price of gas and twice the price of electricity. By 2010, we came to the point where the country was completely indebted, the municipalities were also indebted, and Hungarian families were also indebted. This was the crisis management of the government at the time; this was the government at the time, the family support system of the left-wing government at that time. Honourable Congressman, Since 2010, we have been working to help young people to continue their education; on the other hand, to support them in childbearing, raising children and creating homes; on the third, to help them to get a job, a job for which they can support their families with honor on their salary; and on the other hand, to help the elderly to live a decent old age. This has been the framework of our family support system since 2010. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. Since 2010, we have increased the amount of support for families by 2.5 times. In the 2021 budget, approximately HUF 2309 billion is available to support Hungarian families. This has been 2.5 times the family allowance since 2010, as I said. With this, we are also top riders throughout Europe, which is a 4.5 percent share of GDP. But, as the Member said, we have introduced the CSOK; since then, we have also expanded the range of people who can use it and the funds that can be used. We have re-introduced the family tax relief, where the criticism of the left is always that only the wealthier can use it. I would like to inform everyone that 95 percent of those using family allowances can also benefit from family tax relief. We can also provide baby shower support, car shopping support for large families, and we have increased the number of crib seats from 30,000 to 51,000 today. And the Fidesz-KDNP government also does not abandon the Hungarian families in the crisis caused by the Crown Virus. Although health protection is the first, it is now the first time that we can reduce the number of diseases, but we are also working on the biggest home creation programme of the past period, which is also a way of ensuring predictability and security for Hungarian families. This programme will help to preserve the standard of living of families; it will help to boost the economy and create new jobs. And, as you said, Congressman, this includes the reduction of the purchase of new apartments to the rate of VAT of 5%, the tax exemption; this bill is, by the way, before the Parliament, and we have started to negotiate it. I would also ask everyone here to support the issue of Hungarian families, but in addition, as Congressman said, we will also launch a home renovation programme; we will also support multigenerational home creation, and we will exempt families buying new apartments and used apartments from paying a four-percent fee. You can see from what I said that the left-wing governments abandoned families before 2010, and now we are working with every means to help Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The epidemic is facing growing challenges around the world, not only human lives are at stake, not only people's health is at stake, but the economy is also facing growing challenges around the world. The situation is deteriorating rapidly in all areas of Europe and in many parts of the world. Most people here in Hungary did not even know a coronal virus infection in the spring, but now there is not only a known infection in the environment, but there is also a serious patient, and the situation seems to be getting more and more. We also see that the virus is not selective; we also see that many young people's bodies are also trying to be thoroughly affected; and we also see that not only the elderly, chronic patients are at risk, although they are in the greatest danger, but not just them. So the most important task is to reduce the number of diseases by radically reducing contact numbers, reduce the risk of more and more people catching the virus. The government has therefore introduced strict measures. Beyond the extraordinary legal order, there are restrictions that give us a chance to reduce the pressure on the health system, because there may be no discussion between us that our health workers are facing a huge burden and a lot depends on how they can do their job in the coming weeks and months. In the spring, we did not get much help from left-wing parties; we also asked you not to stop if you did not do so. But there was a emblematic figure of this phenomenon, Lajos Korózs, who, as chairman of the People's Welfare Committee, produced a chamomile, I'm sorry he's not here now, because my speech would have been addressed to him, and then he only removed this video from his social media site because he said that he was surprised that the sensitivity of the paramedics was violated. Of course, it violates the sensitivity of paramedics when they say they're untrue, and a man who's never been involved in their work talks about the paramedics' organization. You should have resigned from Congressman Korózs by then. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right!]] Dear Left! Your committee president hasn't stopped here: this time he faked mortality statistics. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Shame!]] He did so by knowing that the published material was false. He did so by causing fear in the Hungarian people. He did so by realizing that he was falsely alerting them, and he was trying to deceive the public with all this. He did this as the chairman of the Health Committee of the Hungarian Parliament. [[Interviews from the benches of Fidesz: Shame!]] If we were not in the middle of a pandemic, then Lajos Korózs would be an inexhaustible source of humor, a Kamuvideo, a fake nurse, fake statistics, but the problem is that half of this is not a joke in the middle of a pandemic, and I think that besides the fact that Lajos Korózs' claims and the facts simply have no common set, it is quite irresponsible, it is quite irresponsible, as chairman of the National Assembly's Health Commission, this kind of behavior! As long as the Hungarian government and health workers are fighting the virus, Lajos Korózs is fighting reality fiercely. I think that, since this is not the first time and I'm going to make a note here, remember that Lajos Korózs had already set fire to the Ministry of Finance in 2014, and he said that this would happen soon, but if the faker, the faker, had not been enough, then there is a fake stats. There are three options, honourable left-wing fellow Members. The first is that Lajos Korózs resigns himself as Chairman of the People's Welfare Committee. [[Noise and interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] I think it would be the simplest and most reasonable. [[11.10]] The second solution is that you, who are his allies, will call him back. They'll tell him it's really not gonna fit. There are many debates, many personalities, many political differences in this House, but there are some things that cannot be done. To scare him in the middle of a pandemic, to give him false statistics from the credibility of the president of the Health Commission. So the second option is that you call him back. I would also like to present you with the third solution. It is out of Parliament's practice, but if they do not do so, it is not excluded that the majority of Parliament itself will enforce it. Obviously, this was not the case, but there was no precedent for doing so as Chairman of the Health Commission. In return, Mr Korózs, perhaps you will have our request, do it, and be kind enough to leave the chair of the People's Welfare Committee. This isn't bullshit. This is serious. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The coronal virus epidemic continues to rage in the world and throughout Europe, and the situation is serious. The number of infected has already exceeded 50 million, and 1 million 250,000 people have died in the world. Unfortunately, the epidemic is deteriorating throughout Europe, and in many Western European countries the situation is much worse than ever before. In recent days, the number of infections has reached a record in Germany, France, Romania, Portugal, Italy and Ukraine. Now we need to use all our resources at home to control the epidemic, and to do so, we need to work together. Significant steps have been taken to prepare for health care. We can say that we are among the first in proportion to the number of hospital beds and the number of ventilators. As has already been said today, Austria is a very important reference point for us and we are therefore monitoring the measures and their impact. Unfortunately, we have to say that what we see today in Austria is about two weeks late to reach our country. Therefore, we had to take further measures to control the epidemic. The epidemic is accelerated, our shared responsibility is protection, and everyone must play a role in this. Now the opposition, the left, must finally take responsibility for this. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Up to now, the left, wherever he could, was obstructing the defense, trying to discredit the work with all kinds of false news and camuvides. They are busy with their own petty political ambitions and actions instead of focusing on the control of the virus and finally paying attention to the Hungarian people. Such was the Kamuvideo, mentioned by you, with the help of Lajos Korózs, to which there is nothing to say but a blatant scandal. There is no other way to say it, because not only the fact itself is scandalous, but also the fact that there has been no responsibility since then, there has been no consequence. We see again that the MSZP is a party with no consequences. What we see is that nothing on the left ever has any real consequences. Of course, we shouldn't be surprised, especially because if there were any consequences, they wouldn't call their leader Ferenc Gyurcsány. But, honourable Member, the kamuvideos Korózs, who runs the People's Welfare Committee, is unstoppable, because, as you mentioned, in his recent action, he shared a 2016 statistics in a requestable entry in which he tried to prove that the Crown Virus is now the most common cause of death. So once again, he referred to a 2016 result as a source. After all, he removed this post from his social media site because Zoltán Ceglédi, who lied to himself as an independent person, indicated that this was already unsuitable; the analyst who took a salary of nearly HUF 1 million per month from the MEP of the Momentum. So we can see that the performance of the left is the production of false news, the shooting of chamomuvides, the blocking of decisions and the continuous and intensive attack of health professionals, including the most serious professionals and defense controllers. Unfortunately, the left continues to seek conflict, and considers provocation and scandal to be a priority in the face of cooperation. They are now about to put the chief of staff in an unworthy position and attack him here in the corridor of Parliament. It's scandalous, shocking and shameful. Knock it off! Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Imre Ritter, a German national representative, will now take place before the agenda in a five-minute period of time, with the title "Ohne Worte," there are no words for this. I would like to inform you that Congressman Imre Ritter will present the first sentences of his speech in German, in his ethnic language, and then he will move on and continue to speak Hungarian and close his speech in German. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-31	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, Ohne Worte, there are no words for that... In recent days, Balázs Bárány, member of the national board of the MSZP, representative of the government of Solymár, visited the Hungarian press and social media on a civil forum. I quote: "In particular, where the mayor is a degenerate rootless swab, fidesz, and even more fidesz, Gypsy hater, homophobic, Jewish hater, real fascist bastard. Ohne Worte, there are no words for that... Together with Mrs. Ibolya Englenderné Hock, President of the National Local Government of the Germans in Hungary, we published a statement on the previous inconclusive statements on Saturday. Allow me to share this with you. We were informed the other day that the mayor of Solymár, a member of the German community in Hungary, had been misinterpreted by inappropriate expressions referring to his identity and nationality. Unfortunately, this case is now the second one in recent times. We, the leading politicians of the national minority concerned, in the name of all nationalities and other minorities living in our country, reject such oppositional manifestations, and we find it unacceptable when such frivolous, reckless and hurtful statements are made to relieve tension between any two parties. The German community in Hungary continues to contribute to the diversity of our country through its traditions, culture, mother tongue and values. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Solymár is one of the emblematic settlements of German ethnicity in Hungary, which, among other things, brought him to life and has been a permanent director of the National German Nationality Children's Dance Festival for 25 years. The youth ethnic groups in Solymár have been on the backbone of the European-renowned Budaörsi Passio for 20 years now. The Kompanei ethnic amateur theatre group in Solymár is the only one from grandchildren to grandparents in Mundart, in German dialect in Solymár, and not only in Solymár, but also in other German ethnic settlements in Hungary. It is no coincidence that last week the Association of German Local Governments in Northern Hungary has presented Magdolna Cservenyinné Marlok of Solymár for the 2021 Nationalities award, who was the engine and soul of the German ethnic life of Solymár for 25 years. [[11.20]] The most natural thing is that since the change of regime, Solymár has always been the mayor of German nationality. Balázs Bárány's outrageous, shocking and unsatisfying outburst against Mayor Kálmán Szente, a member of our German community is also feared because these statements do not come from the simple man of the street, but this brutal attack on our nationality came from a public figure, a member of a parliamentary party, even a member of the presidency, a leading politician. It's even scary to think that if this man came to power, in the hands of power and hatred, he would be able to do such terrible things. That is why I am convinced that no parliamentary party can tolerate not only as a leading politician, but also among its members, such people must be excluded from public life! Dear Parliament, In the Old Cemetery in Budaörs, we set up the national monument of the Germans who were driven away and dragged away 75 years ago. The following lines of Valeria Koch were carved on the pedestal of the statue:, Stoppt schon den kleinssten Haß, sagt rechtzeitig died! In Hungarian, the warning of the German ethnic poet of the young woman who died in Hungary is:, Stop even the least hatred, tell her to stop in time! * Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the history of the Shabs of Solymár goes back 300 years. Without them, the settlement that still lives as a significant settlement in the territory of Pest County would not be. They suffered the banishment in 1946, resulting in the persecution of nearly two thousand Shalymari Shvabs, half of the settlement by the then Communists. As the Communists of that time did between 19 January and 15 January 48, after the horrors of the Second World War, the German community was abused, attacked, and two hundred thousand people were persecuted from their homeland. He was half a million Germans before the Second World War, who claimed to be, and then shortly after the expulsion, in 1949, 2600 people dared to claim to be German-speaking or German-born only because they feared the revenge of the Communists because they were persecuted. Frightening is still a communist legacy, so it is safe to say that the MSZP has inherited not only the wealth from the Communists, but also the style and the idea. What Balázs Bárány said by the MSZP representative in Solymár is degenerate swabing, and to continue the line you have already quoted, is completely unacceptable, honourable Member. In addition, there is a sideline to this story, as during the Pest County elections the previous group was to be excluded within the MSZP, and almost Balázs Bárány became president of MSZP Pest County. Whose favourite? Bertalan Tóth and Ágnes Kunhalmi. This may add to the trouble, continue to add to the crime that this congressman has committed. But let me quote another sentence from him, which may be true, given him. You can come to the part where we call on you to resign and leave public life because you have become unworthy of your office. Although he meant this thought differently, it would be good for him to take it upon himself, and I must say that the MSZP, the Korózs Lajos and the others here, too, are called upon to leave public life for those who do things in public life that are totally unacceptable and insulting, attacking people. However, I have to say that everything that the left is doing, everything that has now marked the MSZP, also characterizes the left, the cooperation that has been created in recent years, as social groups are being insulted. Looking at Jobbik alone, he started a constant hatred of Gypsy, Jewishism. They wanted to list the latter community. DK wants to constantly pursue Christianity and speak of it with hatred, and I would add that Mrs. Ferenc Gyurcsány was most recently insulting the one-time two-handed workers. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] On the left they attack Hungarians across the border, insult pensioners, rural people, rat on voters, insult rural university students. It seems that the insults of German nationality have now been assigned to the MSZP. Dear Parliament, We're talking about a special collaboration and we're looking at a very specific collaboration. Party brats who do everything for power to give up values, kick everyone, attack everyone, but on the other hand nothing but hate keeps them together. We have the answer from the Fidesz-KDNP, nothing but cooperation. Collaboration with people, communities, ethnicities, Hungarians from across borders, Germans from Hungary and German companies from Hungary, of course. They are the ones who make up a quarter of the foreign companies in Hungary, they bring a lot of work to Hungary, they create a lot of value, and it is important for us that what the Germans who have been living here have created for three hundred years should continue, both in nationalities and through German companies. Thank you very much, and I apologize for Mr. Lamb. God bless you. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-11-10-35	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik.
u2020-11-10-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was a motion for the waiver of the immunity of MP Timea Szabó on 6 November 2020 16.BPK.1648-2020/2. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our extraordinary meeting today. We shall decide on the agenda, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President for the duration of the meeting. However, before we begin the voting procedure, I will first ask the staff of the hall service to check that the horseshoe has completed the conversions and, secondly, we will also check the functionality of the voting machines, i.e. the clicking of the presence will take place. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. There are 178 Members present, 21 Members absent, the Parliament has a quorum. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The proposal submitted by the President to the Parliament initiated the T/13571 on the protection of the second wave of the coronal virus pandemic. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place today. [[11.30]] Proposal for a derogation from house rules T/13571/2. We all got to know him on the website. I would like to draw your attention now to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, a vote of four fifths of the Members of Parliament present is required. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 178 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for a period of 45 minutes from now and 12 hours and 16 minutes from now. The consolidated debate on the bill, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place at our meeting today. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to call for a break until the legislative committee's meeting is over. (Sunning: 11.32 13.08) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2020-11-10-37	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Now the united debate will take place. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the following two speakers should be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, The reason for our later start is that we had to wait for the TAB material to become available electronically within the system. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to control the second wave of the corona virus pandemic will follow. Government referral T/13571. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 20 minutes for opening speeches, speeches during debate and closing hours, 15 minutes for speaking by the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, 20-20 minutes for speaking by the political groups, and 8 minutes for speaking by independent Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-11-10-38	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The spread of the coronal virus has grown again, and it is a bigger threat not only in our country, but throughout Europe and the world. The epidemic is on a huge scale compared to the first wave, both in terms of infection and the number of people who died. However, Hungary is prepared, our hospitals are equipped and everything is available for protection: breathing machines, masks, rubber gloves and protective clothing. During the first wave of the coronal virus pandemic, we have taken a number of health, economic and other protection measures that have contributed to Hungary's successful response to the epidemic, as opposed to many European states. So we won the first battle. In this place, thanks are due to all Hungarian law-abiding citizens who have contributed to slowing down the spread of the epidemic in compliance with the measures. And, of course, there is a special thanks to those working in health care, law enforcement, commerce and public education, without their sacrifice. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, In order to maintain our responsiveness, in June 2020, the government, as included in its name, introduced an epidemiological alert. Now, in November 2020, we must take action again to protect the country. We are aware that we must make responsible decisions in times of distress, and that compliance with the measures taken so far, cooperation and discipline are the main reserves of Hungarian power. In response to the second wave of coronal virus epidemic, several European countries have once again introduced a special legal order. Our country must also act, because our goal remains to save lives and jobs, and therefore we need a clear ability to decide and act in the fight against the epidemic. It is precisely about ensuring efficiency that the emergency is rehired. The special legal order helps to ensure that measures can be taken and implemented as quickly as possible in the current epidemiological situation. The normal procedure would take weeks, but it is impossible to expect this much, the life and health of Hungarian people is a strong public interest that requires immediate action. The basis of our legal system, the Fundamental Law also lays down very detailed international comparison, with broad guarantees as to what should be done in exceptional situations, and what is the task of which constitutional body. The extension of the emergency effect beyond 15 days therefore depends on the decision of the Parliament. On this basis, the purpose of this proposal is to strengthen and extend all measures taken since then by declaring an emergency ordered by the Government in order to combat the consequences of the pandemic of the Crown Virus which threatens the safety of life and property, and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, in accordance with Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law. Dear House, The proposal is made in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law. When defining its substantive and temporal framework, the proposal takes into account the fact that the government's measures are naturally contained not in one, but in several government regulations. It therefore sets out the scope of the government decrees affected by the extension of scope, not by a rigid reference, but by a basic legislative provision establishing the legislative power to introduce exceptional measures. [[13.10]] It is essential that this mandate also applies to future government measures. As regards its temporal scope, it shall grant authorisation pursuant to Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law until the law expires, i.e. 90 days from the date of publication of the law. Here is an important difference in the spring epidemic: until spring we could not know when the end of the first wave of the epidemic would be expected, in the current situation, if everything goes as planned, we will hopefully have some vaccine at our disposal within a short period of time. Therefore, if we can believe in informing the European Commission, these 90 days will be sufficient. In addition, the proposal makes it clear that the delegation of power may be revoked before the end of 90 days and that Parliament may repeal it, as appropriate. It should be pointed out that the Parliament does not need to decide on the maintenance of the mandate under the regulations at its forthcoming quorum meetings, ex lege will remain until the expiry of the law, so that a decision is required only if the delegation is withdrawn. However, it should be stressed that Parliament has the possibility to revoke the mandate from the 16th day following the publication of certain government decrees containing measures, in accordance with Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law. On the basis of the substantive framework of the mandate, Parliament has the possibility to withdraw its mandate only in respect of certain measures taken by the Government. The proposal also states that, following the entry into force of the regulation, the Parliament will confirm the government's decrees of extraordinary measures which have been drawn up until the entry into force of this proposal, thereby recognising the government's actions so far in order to control the epidemic. It is important to point out that Article 3 of the proposal states that: §2 of the Act provides that the Government shall regularly inform the President of Parliament and the leaders of the parliamentary groups of the measures taken in order to prevent an emergency until the measures are maintained. Dear House, I must also mention the provisions of the bill concerning elections. Under the Fundamental Law, the representative body of the local government or the minority self-government may declare its dissolution. The proposed rule states that, in the event of the dissolution of the body of representatives, that decision shall be taken on the day following the end of the emergency. This is also the case where, under the disaster protection law, the mayor or the mayor or the chairman of the general assembly of the local government, the Metropolitan Assembly and the county assembly exercise their functions and powers. In the electoral and referendum procedures, the fundamental principle of directness would require the personal participation of all voters. However, it is easy to see that this would seriously jeopardise the prevention and the eradication of the consequences of a human epidemic. Given that neither electoral or referendum law contains emergency rules, it is necessary to provide for such procedural deadlines to be interrupted in the event of an emergency. I note that, for epidemiological reasons, the Government provided for the postponement of interim elections for the period until the entry into force of the bill already on 5 November 2020, but this is only pending the decision of the Parliament as a temporary measure. It is also necessary to provide that interim elections or referendums may not be held during an emergency. However, the date of the late election or referendum should be set within 15 days of the end of the emergency. Anyone who claims that these provisions are unnecessary or constitute disproportionate restrictions also wishes the state to expose voters to a serious risk of infection in the collection of recommendations and voting would be obviously irresponsible. Once again, I stress that the provisions set out above apply only to the time of the emergency and only to interim elections and referendums. In this connection, it is important to point out that the amendment tabled to the proposal now provides that, after the end of the emergency, the elections for which candidates have already been permanently registered before the absence of an emergency, we ensure that the candidates can only be those who have already been permanently registered by the electoral committee before the absence of the elections in the event of an emergency. This regulation will ensure that candidates who collect an appropriate number of recommendations in the case of missed interim elections are also nominated in the post-emergency election, as in this case the non-choice should be regarded as a pause, so that the proposal also ensures that the regulation does not have a negative impact. In addition, the amendment tabled to the proposal also states that, in the case of the collection of signatures for the initiation of a local referendum on the date of entry into force of the relevant government regulation, the deadline for the collection of signatures will be suspended from the date of entry into force of the regulation until the day following the end of the emergency. The signature collection sheets containing signatures collected until the entry into force of this Regulation, which have not been destroyed, shall be handed over to the organizer to the local election office no later than 3 days after the entry into force of this Act. On the day following the end of the emergency, the head of the local election office shall provide a new validation clause for the specimen of the signature collection sheet and hand it over to the organizer. [[13.20]] This will allow the collection of signatures to continue after an emergency, and the signatures previously collected may be used. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In order for the government to be able to take all the measures necessary for effective defence in a timely manner, it is necessary to adopt this bill as soon as possible. That is why I am turning to you, honourable left-wing Members, this is the opportunity to prove that you are not exclusively concerned with the daily political gain and the domestic and international atmosphere, but also with the country's fate. There must be common issues that outweigh daily mud throwing and political interests. There must be cases in which the nation is united and the left does not reject it. Protecting the lives and jobs of Hungarian people is such a matter. Therefore, I ask with respect that you support the proposal so that what has already happened in the spring cannot happen again. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-39	I thank you, Minister, for your speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate you have 9 minutes 30 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. Madam Comrade, here you go.
u2020-11-10-40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/13571. Bill No. 1. The summary report was adopted by 38 votes in favour, by unanimity, on the basis of a derogation from the house rule. Dear Parliament, As is known, the coronal virus epidemic is spreading more rapidly across Europe and in our country. The life of the Hungarian people remains the most important thing for the government, and it is now essential to use the means available to slow down the spread of the epidemic. The fight against the epidemic requires rapid action, decision-making and action. This is supported by the exceptional legal order, since it is justified to implement the measures taken as quickly as possible in the current epidemiological situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 53 of the Fundamental Law provides for the possibility for the Government to declare an emergency in the event of an elemental disaster or industrial disaster endangering the safety of life and property, as well as to remedy their consequences, and to introduce exceptional measures provided for in a cardinal law. Our Fundamental Law, which is the basis of our legal system, sets out what is to be done and what is to be done by which constitutional body in an exceptional situation is very detailed and defined in international comparison. It is therefore the responsibility of the Parliament to extend the scope of the emergency beyond 15 days. The aim of the proposal is to implement Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law on the announcement of an emergency by the Government of 478/2020. Article 478-2020 on the announcement of an emergency by the Government. (Rule XI) 3.) in agreement with the announcement of an emergency order for the protection of the health and life of Hungarian citizens, the resolution of the consequences of a massive outbreak of Crown Virus that threatens the safety of life and property, confirms all measures taken since then and prolongs their scope in accordance with Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law. With regard to the duration of the authorisation, the proposal provides for authorisation under Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law until the law expires, but the proposal makes it clear that the decision can be withdrawn and that the law on the legislation can be repealed by the Parliament Act. The aim of the proposal is to enable the Government of Hungary to establish and maintain its regulations containing extraordinary provisions even if the Parliament does not meet for any reason related to the human epidemic caused by the coronal virus. Dear House, It can be said that Hungary has successfully managed the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic. A number of medical quarantine and economic measures have been taken, complementing the disciplined behaviour of citizens, to contribute to a successful defence. The current situation is stressful for all of us, but it is also very important that we take responsible decisions in times of distress. Joint action, cooperation and disciplined disease management are the only ways to control the spread of the epidemic, protect the economy and the health system from collapse. Members of Parliament may contribute by adopting the proposal to the establishment and maintenance of the national unity required in times of distress. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask that the proposal submitted be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-41	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have 20-20 minutes, and the independent Members have a total time frame of 8 minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group of Fidesz.
u2020-11-10-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The corona virus epidemic is taking off all over Europe, we see it on the news, we hear it on the news, there are more and more people infected, and there are more and more people in need of hospital treatment, and unfortunately, more and more deaths. In the world, the number of infected has reached 51 million, and the number of people who died is close to 1.5 million. As the spread of the epidemic has accelerated, the health system has been strained to the end in several countries and is at the limit of its capacity. In Austria, the infected population per million is already one and a half times as many as we have, and the situation is even worse in the West. Several hospitals in Austria have a capacity problem as the number of patients treated in the hospital doubled in two weeks. The international outlook is also worth doing, because the spring experience has also shown that what happens or has happened from us to the west is likely to happen to us as well. We therefore endorse the fact that the government follows the Austrian model, and the steps of defence are carried out according to the Austrian model. But we could also mention the Belgian health system, which was already critical in the middle of October, especially as regards intensive care. The situation is not better with regard to the V4 countries, and the pressure on the health sector is increasing in Poland and the Czech Republic as well as in Slovakia. The lack of healthcare staff in our Slovak neighbours is one of the biggest problems. Almost all countries have taken drastic measures in view of the increasingly uncontrollable spread of the epidemic. In France, the population can only leave their home for reasonable reasons, there is a curfew of 0-24 hours. In Belgium there is a curfew and in Germany almost everything is closed for a month. In Austria, what is important to us is not only from the point of view of the neighbouring country or the proximity of size, but also from the point of view of the identity or similarity of the defence, there have been extreme restrictions from the beginning of the week. With the exception of professional sports, all events have been banned, hotels cannot receive guests, and there is a night curfew. Those who break it will be punished for nearly half a million forints in euro. Due to the second wave of the epidemic, several countries have re-introduced the extraordinary legal order, as the Minister for Justice has referred to. In fact, there are countries where the declared emergency has been alive since spring. In Germany, for example, since March 25, the federal government has had a wide-ranging power of regulation, and the Minister of Health has also been given a specific possibility to establish a regulation, with which he can still live next spring in the spring of 2021. [[13.30]] The exceptional legal order is expected to continue in France and Italy at the beginning of next year and in Spain until 9 May. Staying in our region in the region, we see that the Czech House extended the state of emergency the other day, which allows rapid procurement of protective equipment among the others and facilitates the involvement of medical students in hospital care. There is also a threat in Slovakia and Slovenia, and the Bulgarian Government has maintained the exceptional situation since May. The epidemic, as you can see, and we all experience, is in a heavily ascending branch in Hungary, and people are already experiencing both the severity of the infection and its number in the news and in their immediate environment. There is therefore a need for rapid and effective measures to limit the spread of the virus. We therefore welcome the Government's request for Parliament's support again, the announcement of an extraordinary legal order and the request to extend it from the Hungarian Parliament. What we see is that the last time it took Parliament two weeks, here we are, to make rules on protective quarantine and masking, and it usually takes two or three weeks for parliamentary decision-making. We can all easily see that this is not an emergency; we must be ready within hours to take decisions and put into effect by the government for health or economic measures. There is a need to reduce the number of coronal viral diseases and this also requires rapid and effective measures, which is why we also approve of the creation of extraordinary legal order and the possibility of rapid action by the government. In the spring, if you recall, you managed to handle the first wave well or successfully because the country was united. Obviously, we needed excellent professionals, obviously we needed disciplined citizens. Now the country is in such a better position that we are more prepared for both infrastructure and experience, and if everyone adheres to the rules, then together we will be able to stop the spread of the pandemic in Hungary again. We must be able to protect the lives and health of the Hungarian people, and we must also be able to protect the functioning of hospitals. This goes hand in hand, if contact numbers are reduced, if the spread of the virus is reduced, we do not put our healthcare system under terrible pressure. It is still a huge task for those who are working in the health system today, which is why it is necessary that the political parties of the country, the leadership of the country, the government and the opposition parties all stand united behind them. Although we had many debates this spring, and unfortunately there have been a number of cases that have shown that we could not count on the support of left-wing parties at psychologically important moments, but today, by voting in favour of this procedure, you have overwritten this, which I thank you for, but at the same time I would like to ask that defence is not only a way to vote in Parliament, but also to avoid spreading different false news. Therefore, although I have said it here today, it is necessary for me to address Lajos Korózs in a sentence; I ask you to call him back and remove him from the head of the Parliament's Health Committee. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right! That's right! Applause in the same place.]] Trust me, I can't do this right now. This is the case even if it does not fit in such a responsible position in peacetime, but now our request is so much more pronounced that, at the moment, the spreading of false news, the alarming of people, the publishing of false statistics can do much more harm than in a situation outside the epidemic. Please allow some thought to be given to changes in relation to the spring epidemic. As the Minister mentioned in her speech, it was not possible to know how long the epidemic would last or when we could fight it effectively and successfully. I hate to say it, but we have listened to your accusations about dictatorship and other things, and then when this law was revoked by the Parliament and the decisions that had been taken have been legitimized, you have not apologized. I mention this simply because we are now asking your support for a successful defence to see this 90-day deadline as something that is obviously more acceptable to you if I take a good look at your statements and, on the other hand, give our citizens, our fellow Hungarians, the hope that after 90 days this situation can change substantially. As Minister said, there is a good chance that the vaccination will arrive within this time. If this is done, the most effective defense and vaccination will also be chosen by Hungarian citizens, but this is the 90 days that the government asks for in its proposal, this is the condition. We therefore need to put more emphasis on cooperation, accurate information, quality of information than anything else, and I therefore ask you not only to support this proposal with your vote, but also with your attitude and political statements. Any disinformation that is not well founded, which unduly deters citizens and which gives false information on any part of the epidemic, may lead to human lives. The bill submitted is necessary, but it is consolidated, it does not exceed what is expected, but it gives the government the opportunity to intervene continuously, quickly and effectively. That is why I ask all my fellow Members in Parliament to support their vote and I ask you to put aside your political debates in the fight against the epidemic. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-43	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-10-44	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Madam Secretary, Thank you for the words of encouragement from you, as you have said that everyone is asking you to take the side of this proposal, this can be regarded as a minimum provocation or as having slept through the last week. This debate is taking place a week ago, and opposition parties have already made it clear that they will support it, and I believe that there has also been a discussion about it, where it has also been stated. So if you're looking for a consensus or a consensus, I'll also say to Máté Kocsis: you're not welcome, but we're also listening to your insults. This is called democracy, by the way, to listen to the arguments of others, even if you do not like it; even though you regularly make opposition arguments as if the opposition were speaking, although these proposals are often not invented by the opposition, but, for example, by Ferenc James, who advises your minister, the Russian Beatrix, who advises your minister. These are said by people, scientists, experts, experts, who, you can safely say your terminology, are attacked by you. By the way, we can be attacked, as Prime Minister said, by the way, because we are used to you attacking us. There's nothing new here, but at least don't attack experts who, by the way, always suggest a way to better protect people. So when you tell us the same thing applies to you, and if you want some kind of cooperation and some kind of fair discussion, you can safely return to the times when you were able to properly express your expectations and requests in the spring. By the way, Máté Kocsis was there several times, we personally sat at a table, and in a fair tone and under conditions, it was possible to organize how each party could help the defense and how the whole society could help the defense. And one more thing: you said to help things with the quality of information, didn't you? Well, the quality of the information is all you have, and you can point to it. [[Máté Kocsis points to the opposition.]] "Gergely Gulyás was the first person to stand up, and in public he said, and I'm sorry, it may not have been false news at the time, but that it was the very harsh reduction of the severity of the epidemic that he said, because he said that we, who are in this room, apart from the ladies, because they are ageless, we can infect each other, and we won't have any more severe symptoms than a general flu. He said it like that, but the point was to reduce the severity of the matter. If you had thought about it, you wouldn't have said that, and you wouldn't have reduced it to this brutal epidemic in which more than two thousand people died in Hungary. The least you could do would be that Gulyás Gergely stands up and says he was wrong, by the way. But if you can't do that, someone else can. But I do not want to point back, because it is also quite obvious that this legislation and this draft law are not intended to do so. [[13.40]] Its aim is absolutely clear: to approve, strengthen the scope of the existing government regulations and to extend them to 90 days, which have so far been created as a tightening of the rules. I'd like to refer you back here for the spring period. The 90 days look familiar, don't they? To give Viktor Orbán a 90-day mandate to finally work, in reality, to reduce the severity of the epidemic and to minimise the victims of either economic or health and any kind of sacrifice. One thing is certain: we are in a much worse situation than we were in the spring, both the number of diseases and the number of deaths. Unfortunately, we got to the point that it wasn't well organized in the summer, and unfortunately, it wasn't well organized in the beginning of autumn either. There would have been opportunities in Hungary to protect health and education institutions, and the current phase of protection is also a good indication that even if they had used antigen tests on which you used different opinions almost every day, but if we had used them, it might have been possible to prevent very serious pressure in our schools or health institutions. There have been opposition proposals all along. They're not even trying to get this out of the way. The opposition proposals were good proposals in spring, and there were points and wordings that the Prime Minister himself announced yesterday, for example. So, many times in Hungary, people who think perfectly logically and properly think together think, even if you try to make it look like nothing can be expected in the opposition and always say the wrong thing. Our goal, as well as our interest, is that Hungary should make as little sacrifices as possible. We want to protect the lives of as many people as possible and everyone else, and we want everyone to have the best economic conditions possible, because we all only have one life, and we all have family here, and we want to thrive here in Hungary. What is certain, and I might suggest that you consider this, is that the national consultation that has been launched has ultimately not triggered the impact it has had on it. I'm not saying it's a waste of time, but let's just say they didn't ask the residents the right question. Because many of the residents did not know the true information, thanks to their spring information lock-in and their summer shut-down, how this epidemic could actually affect their lives, their health and even their economic conditions. And one of the eloquent proofs of this is that you said that Hungary should work, and I think that you have tried as long as possible to give me the opportunity to do everything in the old-fashioned bed, when it appeared that the country was facing much tougher challenges in the autumn second wave. By the way, it could also be said ad absurdum, honourable Members, that if the proposals that I am saying and saying were to be followed, we could also see that together we could take responsibility for the consequences of effective or ineffective defence in the country. For example, the introduction of extensive and free testing, which we have said for a long time, if you implement it, we can also stand there. We stood there, and we always said, and that was even the screening of health and social workers. In this connection, Prime Minister, we have announced, but we have added that, by the way, students and those in there who are otherwise well-groomed and recovering, so patients and children should also be given this opportunity. One thing is certain, ladies and gentlemen: every means must be taken in order not to be dictated by the virus. Because what we've seen so far, and what was from the summer, from the end of summer and from the beginning of autumn, was nothing more than letting the virus dictate the pace in the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic. And we have come to that, my fellow Members, that Hungary has not been able to do so. That is why the measures announced by the Prime Minister were necessary, and they were late in this case; the figures clearly show. And the fact that you want to copy the Austrians' pattern and make everything look the Austrian way, I don't think you're entirely lucky. Hungary may already be in a slightly worse situation than the Austrians were when it was introduced. In Hungary, there may be a greater danger that our supply system was not in the best condition; we have a historical lag in the supply system on the one hand, and we have also missed a budget situation on the other. There has not been so much money in Hungary in recent years, not in the last ten or twenty years, but in the previous years, and there has not been such a curve, there has been no possibility of either health care, social system or education system to overcome those delays. So obviously we are in a different situation than the brothers-in-laws of Austria. And what I am saying with good intentions, and I said this even when we were arguing here in the spring with the delegation law: honourable Members, how people feel about certain restrictions, some measures, is only because of the transparency and honesty of the information they receive. If you go up to the Koronavirus.gov.hu site, there is a great deal of information on it, but perhaps the most important thing is the epidemiological data that could be given in the long term either in a comparable way or in a short term. They're not on it! You see a snapshot on it, like looking at the map, looking at how the county is doing. But it doesn't say how these data changes. What you communicate and how much you communicate about the virus is how open the operational tribe is to let journalists, if any, be right-wing journalists, who are really curious, and left-wing journalists who are really curious or independent journalists who are really curious about the data, having access to the statistics, so that they can essentially inform people. If there is no proper and thorough, transparent information, then you can believe that a lot of people will doubt what is happening in Hungary, and this will only undermine the success of the defence. It is in the interests of all of us, no matter how late Viktor Orbán has been and how much he has allowed the virus to dictate the pace, it is in our fundamental interest that Hungary survives this and has the most effective defense possible. That's what we want. On the part of Jobbik, we will support this proposal, which is nothing new. We told you that last week. All we want is for them to live in the right direction and well. God save Hungary! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-10-45	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, Head of Group, KDNP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-10-46	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an important bill before us, because indeed, a pandemic that has not been seen for a hundred years has been sweeping through many continents, all continents. Government decisions and parliamentary decisions made during the first wave were very correct and proved. It was important that, since the change of regime, we did not have to publish the so-called qualified periodical or now special legal order system or any of its elements nationally, but in this situation, in a number of countries and thus in Hungary, the appropriate level of emergency status has been announced among the special legal orders, the detailed rules of which are contained and regulated by a fundamental law, the disaster protection law. In this spirit, the effectiveness of the first wave protection was clear and proven. Everyone knew, and we ourselves said, that there would be a second wave; epidemics usually take place with this nature. I would refer here to the Spanish flu epidemic in 1918, where the second wave was also the most devastating: nearly 50 million people died due to this epidemic. There was a third wave. May God forbid there will be a third wave of the coronal virus epidemic. But it is certain that now the whole world is in the second wave, and we see how sad cases are and what intense numbers of diseases are coming back. It is necessary to ensure again the elements, possibilities and conditions of the first wave of protection for the executive power, the government and the public authorities. It is therefore very important that all our fellow Members support this proposal. I would like to say at the outset that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party fully supports the amendment or proposal before us, which gives us the right conditions and the leeway that we need to give to the executive authority at this time, of course, while maintaining the obligation to provide information. Thus, just as the operational tribe daily informs all Hungarian citizens, Parliament, the legislative authority, receives information from government bodies, ministers, and in many cases from the Prime Minister. So in the draft text before us, which was also discussed in favour of the seven parties, in the introduction of Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the points and opinions that have been expressed earlier, so what you have objected to at the time, the honourable left, that there is no time limit, are included in this proposal. So the 90-day time limit is included as a sentence, as a rule of law in this bill before us. What I would like to add is that a little bit of a legal approach might be worthwhile. [[13.50]] The new Fundamental Law knows six cases of special legal order: emergency status, state of emergency, emergency, preventive defense situation, unexpected armed attack, burglary and terrorist threat, terrorist attack. This also shows that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, strives to guarantee the safety of people as widely as possible. Obviously, no one can save people from all dangers and troubles, but indeed, at a time of such an epidemic, we see that international examples have proved themselves, and they show that yes, although in many countries it is not called that emergency in few places, but this is not important in this case, but the government, the executive power, gets the necessary room for manoeuvre, the freedom of action, so that it can create regulations in time and as quickly as possible, it makes the more stringent security rules necessary for the benefit of people, to protect people's health and to protect their lives. This would therefore be the opportunity for this mandate for the period ahead. This is necessary, because this condition of effective defence, the first wave, proved this, was the fundamental condition of successful defence. We are sad, of course, that you have not supported the government's actions in the past and have not been partners in active action during the period of emergency, but I do not want to discuss this in more detail, Mr Máté Kocsis, Mr Group Leader, has explained your attitude in detail. I trust, we always look optimisticly at our fellow citizens, that in an emergency, when the most important thing is to demonstrate the ability to cooperate, they are able to put their party political interests in the background and, where appropriate, to support the government in its defensive work. It's necessary, believe me, that's what people expect of you. On 11 March, the government made a proposal for the first emergency announcement, and it was certainly a guarantee of protection. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important that the announcements that the government has already made through the operational tribe and that the Prime Minister himself has spoken about this and regularly informs the population of the country if you now vote on it, then, obviously, a curfew will be in effect from Tuesday midnight between 20:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. Curfew may enter into force, so the wording is precise. Restaurants close, only delivery is possible. However, the service canteens remain open. So whoever works and eats there, in the factory canteens, it's important to have an opportunity to eat. The shops, barbershops and other small-scale service providers will be closed from 19:00. There will be a general ban on events, up to 10 people can attend both family and private events. Wedding is only possible without a wedding. The possibility of parental participation at the ceremony, the participation of witnesses, the participation of brothers and staff was regulated. No more than 50 people can attend funerals. Sports matches can be held behind closed gates. It is, of course, important to keep your immune system free and to exercise as much as possible, so it is possible to play sports individually. They remain closed after the decision of cinemas, theatres, indoor swimming pools, museums, zoos, fitness centers. Higher education and secondary education will also work online. This was already proven to be operational during the first wave and can be taught and raised in this way, obviously in view of the epidemic situation. The nursery, kindergartens and elementary schools remain open. Hospital and daycare, kindergarten and school workers should be tested in a targeted manner each week. This was also an important experience during the first wave. Restaurants and recreational facilities do not have to pay contributions for the next 30 days and the State pays 50% of wages. So it is very important that both the aim is to protect and protect the effectiveness of defence, the preservation of human lives, but at the same time the objective of the government is to maintain its viability in this situation in a meaningful way. That is why KDNP supports this intention and the government's aspirations. I wish for all of us, as Minister said, that indeed, the future can bring us hope that there will be a vaccine as soon as possible, and that we can protect the lives of our fellowman in this way. There are very, very many people working on this, and the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to get the vaccine as soon as possible, to protect Hungarian people. We need to look after our parents, grandparents, older fellow citizens, patients, and, of course, our family, our children, and each other. So let's stick to the rules that the government has laid down that the operational tribe is announcing. I think it is important that we all feel and feel that these decisions are made for the benefit of the Hungarian people, in order to protect their health. At the same time, there is obviously a need for people to be able to function, to make a living. So in this situation, this is all that can be done, and the government has clearly recognised this, so the Christian Democratic Group supports the bill before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-47	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group. I will hand over the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-10-48	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, [[With the exception of Máté Kocsis, the MPs leave the meeting room.]] In two ways, we are in a very different situation now than in the spring. On the one hand, the epidemic situation is much, much more serious than it was in the spring, and on the other hand, the infinite time limit mentioned by my fellow Members in the spring has now been replaced by the 90-day time limit. Practically with this, my fellow Members and the Government acknowledged that the initiative that we ourselves, the MSZP fraction, took over the time limit during the spring was appropriate. Let us see, fellow Members, how we got here, in this situation. More precisely, I would like to start by saying that we see that there was a failure of the government, let's say, during the summer. We see that society was not prepared for this second wave, as the lightning struck from the sky arrived here in September, and the second wave in Hungary; we see that they did not expand the test capacities during the summer; and we see that no action has been taken to solve human resources problems. In addition, assistance has been delayed in a number of cases, it is enough to refer to yesterday's press conference held by opposition parties, of which I would like to highlight only two elements: one is the case of a hundred percent pension and the other is the case of the abuse of municipalities. We can see that the Fundamental Law and other provisions related to the Fundamental Law make it clear that in an epidemic situation all responsibility lies with the government; I stress that all responsibility belongs to the government. As our group leader, our party president, said in his speech before the agenda: money, steed, weapons are at the disposal of the government. That's one of the things I wanted to mention. On the other hand, several of you have said in the last few days that last week we crossed a psychic line. Yes, Hungary crossed a psychic line, since there were two days in the last week when more than 100 people died. And as I looked at the latest statistics, it looks like there are more than a hundred dead people today. It was also a psychological limit that the number of infected people per day exceeded 5,000, and the psychological limit was that there were about 6,000 people who were hospitalized last week. But the number of people still in the hospital is close to this number. And last week we found out there were over 400 people on a ventilator. Let's see what happened at the beginning of September. On September 1st, the government closed the borders. On the other hand, I did not understand why the borders were closed, because we knew precisely that the virus did not come from abroad, then in Hungary there were no points, and even since spring, the epidemic did not really go away, where it could be seen and localized the spread of the epidemic. That's one thing. The other thing I would like to deal with is that if we compare these data to September, it is clear that the number of people who died last week, when there were more than a hundred deaths in two days, was 47 times more than in the beginning of September, and 22 times more people were in the hospital last week than in the beginning of September, and 29 times more people were on the ventilator than in the beginning of September. [[14.00]] So you could see exactly what would happen from the dynamics of the epidemic. I would like to raise two figures here, fellow Members. The positivity rate of daily tests was above 25 percent on average on certain days, when it reached 30 percent. To draw the conclusion that the government had taken last week, I think the most subtle term is that it was not enough. The second is the rate of reproduction, which clearly shows that if it is above 1, the virus is spreading, that if it is below 1, the virus is reclining. But last week and the week before that, we were able to read the opinions of non-emergency experts, but also water experts, where the conclusions were drawn from sewage data, and it was clear that the virus would spread in some major cities. In English, the virus is spreading everywhere in the country now. Prime Minister said a few weeks ago that anyone who gets sick will be cured. Well, excuse me, fellow Members, I have my doubts about this. I think I told you yesterday that in my environment in the last ten days, five people have died of a coronal virus. There are some leading actors in Eger, some of them are young fellow politicians in Józsefváros, but also former Members of Parliament. You have to be clear about that, I think, and you don't have to be an epidemiologist, that if you don't have an infection, you don't have a disease, you don't have a disease, you don't have to die; in Hungarian, the best defense is to prevent trouble. I don't know if this is the path that the Hungarian government has chosen during the autumn, or if someone has made a decision somewhere to release the virus, because there was even a minister in the horseshoe who said that we could safely infect each other here, because nothing will happen in the world, they basically made it look like it was a flu. It's not relevant, but I'm just asking, is there enough vaccine for flu? 'Cause I hear all over the place that the GPs have ordered in the order of a hundred, but they've got three and five. You must see, fellow Members, that no retroactive measures can be taken for a future event. If mass events were approved now or last week, and those who attended them went to the store the next day, went to the market, or went to the pharmacy, then they were potentially contagious. You could infect people, even by mass. Some of these people, of course, see this, too, asymptomaticly survive the infection, but another significant part of them gets sick. Those who get sick will have a disease that is so severe that they will be hospitalized, and in a few weeks' time, those who die will be the ones who do not choose the virus. It's not like they said in the spring, or they tried to make us believe that it was just people with chronic diseases, just people in nursing homes, just old people. It's not like that! People in their 20s die from the virus. I know of a top athlete who caught the corona virus two hours a day, and the sports doctor didn't sign his Autumn racing license. He banned her from sports forever, because she was afraid that if she got into the pool, she'd die there. People in their 20s! Last week, we saw a hospital ward shut down before, say, a stadium. In the autumn, and even in the spring, my fellow Members were asked to provide information to the mayors, the municipal authorities. To this day, local mayors and councils do not know how many people are infected in their settlements, unless they do their own research. Statistical data, national or county statistics, can tell us what the prevalence of the virus in a county is. However, the municipal authorities could help people who are in trouble locally, because there is basic care, in most places there is basic care, there is village care service, care services, social catering, home assistance, signalling home assistance, but they cannot obtain information. To date, we do not know how many health workers have been infected. To date, we do not know how many people in the social sector have been infected. We don't even know how many teachers are infected. We don't know how many people are in intensive care, and we don't even know how many people in intensive care were killed, and we don't even know how many of them were infected when they got into the hospital, but not with a coronal virus, and then they caught the virus. That's how you hunt the data. Several Members have mentioned this in several speeches, whether before the agenda or on an immediate question. I don't want to quote the daily data in detail, but obviously now there are more than 4,000 infected, more than 100 dead again, more than 88 000 active infected, 6153 hospitalized, and 461 on a ventilator. My fellow Members, during the spring, the MSZP has made countless well-founded proposals. Some things the government has taken, although it has never acknowledged that this proposal comes from us, say, a week late or ten days late, and has taken these situations. Yesterday, opposition representatives here in front of Parliament presented the eight points with which I would like to help protect against the epidemic in a joint press conference. They said and now I repeat that mass and free testing is needed. Yes, we need mass and free testing. They also said that more effective contact research should be carried out. As a third point, they asked to provide a 100 percent pension to those who lose their jobs or have doubts about their employment because of the infection. To work at home, to the home office, develop a support system! I believe that this support and tax relief has been promised even this summer by the government, but we still see nothing of it. We asked for 9 months of job search support to be put in place. As sixth, we asked for a much wider public programme to support part-employment. We asked for immediate financial support for pensioners and families with children. I don't think this should be particularly detailed as to why this would be desperately necessary, especially for those with a very low pension, such as those with a monthly pension below HUF 100,000. We also called for government criminal policy to be liquidated, which is reprimanding local authorities' money. I don't think I'll tell you anything new. With all this in mind, knowing the Fundamental Law and the laws that are attached to it, such as the laws on health, all responsibility lies with the government, since these laws make it clear that at the time of the epidemic, all possibilities of action are with the government; I repeat once again: money, steeds and weapons. Furthermore, the MSZP fraction will support this law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-10-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[14.10]]
u2020-11-10-50	Thank you very much. Dear House, This bill is in many ways a confession from the government and the government side. On the one hand, admitting that there is a real problem that the situation is serious, that Hungary is in real danger, Hungarian people are in danger. There's an increase in the number of people infected, and what's worse than that, there's an increase in the number of people who died. Something has to be done, something has to happen. In this situation, there may indeed be a need for measures that the government must take quickly, immediately and decisively. I wish I didn't. I have already told you today that, in many respects, these radical measures are needed today because of doing nothing in the last six months. But this bill is also a confession from the point of view that you played a dirty political game in the spring, because in spring we promised the support of the opposition for precisely such a law. We have said that we can support a law that gives the government an extraordinary mandate for a limited period of time and to the extent necessary. You first promised this and then tabled a bill that gave the government the opportunity to exercise full power for an unlimited period of time, and made it possible without limitation, without any control. Now, when the situation is much more serious, they can put a bill on the table of the House that really contains the necessary measures and a fixed period of time. I'm sorry, but the kind of argument that we're going to have a vaccine in 90 days, I can tell you that we all hope that it will be, but we all hoped that we wouldn't need an extraordinary mandate after 90 days, just as we did. Let us not now go into the fact that they voluntarily returned or admitted that the kind of power they asked for has consequences at international level that they did not want to take on. In any case, there is no doubt that another amendment to the law allowed you to order almost everything. I would add that it would have been possible during the autumn to do much more and much more effectively in order to prevent this epidemic. But once again, it became clear this spring that you did not put forward this type of bill to Parliament with a limited deadline because you did not want support from the opposition. I'm glad that's changed. I am pleased that you, too, can see that, in a serious situation, national unity must be sought. The problem is that your words ring unreliable at the same time, while I'm sorry to say that, for poor political reasons, they are going to disable the parliamentary committee that should be dealing with the disease control. How do you want to cooperate, how do you want national unity, if you're excluding the opposition from national cooperation, if you're going to disable the Parliamentary Committee? How can you believe that you really want to cooperate when you put in this bill that the Parliament should be informed that this is in it, and I hope you will, but in doing so, you will disable the health committee so that it does not have to be informed there. [[Máté Kocsis: Don't lie!]] And if you are concerned about false news and false statistics, then I would like to ask why Parliament has not been allowed to negotiate the bill submitted by DK, which would also have imposed a penalty on government officials for spreading false news and withholding information in the context of the epidemic. But let's hope this is indeed a moment of sobering up for the government side as well. We really need it, because it's a serious situation. If that's the case, then our job is to give the government the opportunity to do the right thing. We cannot take over your responsibility, but we can do what is our responsibility, to remove the obstacles that, on the part of Parliament, could hinder defence, even for time. We will vote in favour of this bill because we believe that it is not up to us how you control the defense. We don't have any illusions. It has been demonstrated over the past six months that they cannot and do not want to take effective action against the epidemic. They have demonstrated that they do not listen to their own experts, to the people they refer to here very often, or even to the WHO, which they also refer to very often. They don't listen to them, they don't take their opinions into account. But again, I hope this is the time to sober up. I hope that, at least in this serious situation, they will do what can and must be done. I would like to offer you at least two things from this point of view. One is the question of testing. You can't drive blind, you can't land safely flying blind. You see, the situation is serious, at least now increase the testing capacity. I am pleased that it will be introduced, if all is true, of course, that we would like to see this, and we are pleased that they are finally listening to the opposition, and that testing will be introduced in schools, health institutions and social institutions. Should've been months ago. But don't stop here. Make it possible for all contactees to be tested and allow them to follow the practices of a number of successfully defensive countries so that everyone can request free and immediate testing. This is the way to see how many people are actually infected so that they can make epidemiological decisions so that they know what's going on, what's really going on. This is also the way for people to know themselves when they are in danger, when they are putting others at risk, when they are putting others at risk. And the other thing is to take serious care of the social consequences of the epidemic. I understand that you are following a neoconservative economic and social policy, that you do not like social support, that you do not agree with the support of people who are losing their jobs, that you believe that they will be on the labour market as soon as possible. Of course, we agree with the latter, but we see that this is not realistic today. Jobs will not be created in the coming months, but jobs will be lost. The direction now will not be to make it easier for businesses to pay the wage, but to make it harder. I know you're moving in certain sectors, just where your friends, relatives and business partners are. But please think of the other sectors as well. Not only hotels in Hungary are in a difficult situation, but there are crises in many areas of service and industry today. Think and take action to help small businesses. Bring back the wage support system, but not in the form it used to work, but in a much more generous and easier way. Give direct support to those who are losing their jobs or who lost their jobs in March, and despite your big-mouthed boasting, they still haven't found a job. Think of older people who are more difficult to make a living now, not just rich families, but all families. Give support to all families, including families in need. I believe that the opposition will continue to be able to support this, as it has done so far. To destroy the local governments, stuff the buddies' pockets, the World Hunting Exhibition and the football stadiums, it's still not. Once again, I suggest that you return to a sober path, sober up on the government side, and use this mandate in such a way that it is indeed in the interests of the country and in order to combat the epidemic, to mitigate the economic and social impact of the epidemic. This is the only thing you can count on for our support. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-10-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, She also started by thanking the people in the health sector for their work, and I also say that we thank everyone who works in the first line to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. We could list for a long time what professions, what sectors, under what difficult circumstances and under increasingly difficult conditions they have to work in. Unfortunately, we can see the brutality of the epidemic. My fellow Members have assessed the past period, the last six months, the spring parliamentary debates, the parliamentary debates during the first wave of the epidemic. I would like to refer to this very briefly. [[14.20]] When, for the first time, at the beginning of March, in mid-March, we had the bill to extend the extraordinary legal order, when the Prime Minister attended Parliament even more often, I said, in response to his presentation before the agenda, that the Hungarian people were really looking forward to it, and they were right to expect that, in such a difficult situation, when a pandemic reaches our country, everyone could put aside political battles, party political interests, party political struggles, and that we should try to speak with one voice; nevertheless, the government's responsibility and mandate are obviously yours. Obviously, it would have been very important, even then, to be able to stand united in favour of certain measures that make the lives of Hungarian people in any event difficult, which involve resignation and are necessary with discipline in order to slow down the spread of the epidemic. Then you really rejected this cooperation, and it seemed that in this epidemiological situation, you were practically a kind of political, I don't know from what calculation you tried to demonize the opposition, and it has been going on ever since. However, I do not wish to go along with seeing some change, and if not today, if not in the speeches before today's agenda and in the government responses to them, it has not yet been possible to catch it in the act, but, for example, in the wording and words of Mr Kocsis, I have seen some change, which is as if it were pointing in the direction that it would be worth holding back party political battles in this terrible situation. I think that, despite the fact that both sides have been affected here in the past period, and I think that we should be able to say these, to the opposition, that if we perceive this, that if we see this bill, with the time limit that we demanded in the spring period, that if we see this, we should at least respond to it, and trusting that this is not only a rhetorical change in a momentary situation, but also a substantial change in attitude, then perhaps we should also show this in the tone. What I can tell you is that this is what we proposed during the first wave, which is what we will continue to represent. I would definitely like to refer back to the comments before the agenda. It is certain that no one has ever heard dictatorship, dictatorship, anything like that from the LMP faction or from me personally, and that no one has ever heard from the LMP faction in the National Assembly or anywhere else, in any way called into question the efforts and work of the professionals and that we would have attacked the professionals. I find that unworthy, and now I can respond to it. I am sorry that State Secretary Tamás Schanda is not here, and I was personally accused by Tamás Schanda of attacking health professionals and challenging their efforts. I consider this to be unworthy and shocking, and I will certainly discuss this in person with Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, but I would certainly like to say this here at the beginning of my speech. I would also like to refer back to the fact that we have made a lot of criticisms about how you have taken decisions, or how you have not made fundamental decisions, and we have made a lot of proposals; we will do so now, and we will continue to do so in the future. Yesterday, I told the public at a press conference that we have been watching the Prime Minister's announcements, we have been watching these restrictive measures, and we can say that these are appropriate and necessary measures, which have only been significantly delayed, underlining what I have repeatedly quoted here, that the experts appointed by you have already expected these restrictive measures from you. In response to the debate before the agenda, I would like to repeat this once again. Ferenc Jakab, head of the Coronary Virus Research Task Force of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, who was also introduced by the Prime Minister as an important member of his team, said on 2 October that, while the epidemiological measures and the government's decisions were fast and good in March, unfortunately we do not see this now, the professor said that he thought that the numbers had gone very far and were terribly worrying, and then said that we should pay attention to trying to slow down the rate of spread of the epidemic, we will not be able to stop it, but if we run like this as a fast train, then our health capacities will be exhausted very quickly; we do not see that the epidemic is at all peak, the numbers are rising. On October 2, one of Professor James' statements by his secretary of state said that there were such alarms during the first wave, and that the numbers had stabilized, that is, October 2. Ferenc Jakab, professor of virology in Pécs, is not an expert of the opposition, a respected professor whom you have asked very rightly. I don't understand what kind of signals, what kind of professional decisions you've made, and how such a mistake has come to the system, that an important, influential secretary of state tells the press that these are the kind of alarms, and he said that the numbers have stabilized. Unfortunately, we can see that the numbers have not stabilised, I repeat, these were statements on 2 October, and they have a government reaction. I would like to emphasise once again that it has never happened, and it will not be that LMP, in any way, would question professionals, professionals and their work, or criticize professionals, but I would also ask you not to be, in some cases, not to be a reaction to the fact that they may be prohibited from making a statement in front of the press, but to listen to these distress signals, these professionally founded signals. A lot of people have raised this question, and we have been asked why there is a huge difference between the measures we see in the spring and the measures we are seeing now, and we can see that it is heaven and earth, so there were no thank-you measures taken by the government either. Now we can see that yesterday we also welcomed these measures, they were necessary, and we hope that this 90-day period will indeed be enough to slow down the spread of the epidemic in substance. And obviously, we also trust what many of my fellow Members have said about the fact that after 90 days the vaccine will be available in Hungary in a larger number, and we hope that this will be the case. I hope that we will receive information on this in the near future, which is a bit tidy on the news, because if we watch the news, we can see that very conflicting news can be read about the availability of the vaccine. However, we can see very, very serious problems in the way in which economic measures can be taken in parallel with the control of the epidemic, and we can see that very serious and important measures still need to be taken, which we have not seen before, we cannot even see the preparation of it, and we have even asked it, and we have not been given an answer when there will be any measures in this regard. I would like to underline that we, too, are in favour of and would like to ask you for a lot of measures that we believe could again support defence and economic defence, and I would also like to list them very, very briefly, although I would not like to repeat my fellow Members. We consider it very important that all Hungarian citizens should be able to be tested free of charge. It is very important and we can see a lot of signs from here and here that the conditions for contact research need to be established, so that the current regulations can be applied in this respect. It is important that during the period of the epidemic all infected persons should be allowed access to free health care, regardless of the legal status of the insured person. It is also very important for the government to support the use of home work, and this is the material and, if this is necessary in legislation, it must also be possible to create the legal conditions, and the government has every authority to do so; I would add, we will obviously support such measures. It should therefore be pursued that the conditions for working at home should be ensured in any sector that can only be resolved. It is a very, very important measure, and we have already emphasised in the spring period that it is necessary to ensure that workers who have lost their jobs are paid immediate direct support, that the duration of the use of unemployment benefits should be substantially increased to the critical times that we are all seeing, and it is important that state programmes supporting part-time employment be restarted on better terms than before, so as to provide direct support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are in difficulty due to the epidemic, regardless of the sector. It is a very, very old demand, and as far as the forum is concerned, the representatives of the LMP always say that workers in the social sector should also be given a one-time allowance of HUF 500 000, and the answer you have given recently in committee meetings for the past few weeks is totally unacceptable: there are no budgetary resources. Indeed, there are budgetary resources, it is necessary to tap into the gigantic investments that cannot be justified from the point of view of return and are not even justified from the point of view of compliance with Hungarian national interests. Hundreds of billions of forints could be transferred, but there is a budget resource to help people who are committed to the social sector, working in difficult, extremely difficult circumstances, receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000. Similarly, this should be given to teachers under conditions that do not entail undue administrative burdens, as we have seen in recent years. I'd like to talk a little bit about political terms. This is one of the hit themes of today, not even today, the last few days, the spring event, the Kamuvideo action. You just picked it up like something, I don't know, a political lifeline that happened. As far as I know... [[Máté Kocsis intervenes.]] It's okay, and I really think that this measure [[István Hollik and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] I'm sorry, this measure is reprehensible, and I think it's absolutely legitimate and important that we all, wherever we can, draw attention to the fact that this is not acceptable. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not a member of the committee that Congressman Korózs apologized. [[Lajos Korózs nods.]] I don't know if that's what happened. Obviously, it's one of those, I'm convinced it's one of those... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] I believe that this personal opinion is a political mistake, otherwise, in which you have to take responsibility as a politician. [[14.30]] So it's not interesting to know who was technically involved in one of these things. What I'm saying is that you have to apologize for that and take responsibility for that, that's one side of it. And the fact that anyone anywhere draws attention to this is okay, but on the other hand, I think it's very important that you, in addition to expressing your criticism, are boycotting the work of the committee. But this is totally unacceptable! This has a specific impact on the control of the epidemic and has a specific impact on the functioning of the committee in an epidemiological situation. I therefore ask you to express your criticism and, at the same time, the Members of Parliament should take part, fulfil their obligations, and in this epidemiological situation, try to take part in the committee's meeting and take part in the discussion of the important information and other items on the agenda that may be essential, which may be necessary for the control of the epidemic. This is simply completely unacceptable that you are obstructing the work of the commission for political reasons in a very serious epidemiological situation, but you must take responsibility for this and for all the consequences that can be derived from it. So this is what I am asking you to do, that if there is any change in your comments now, then one of the elements of this should be to participate, for example, in the work of the Parliament, and that Members fulfil their obligations for which they have been given a mandate; to participate in the work of the committee. And when it is over, we hope that this epidemiological situation will be over as soon as possible, then these issues can be put on the agenda and clarified. I am also asking you not to delay making the economic decisions that should be there to support the decisions that have been made. So here I am thinking, for example, that we all supported it, maybe there were a few votes against, the bill on doctors' wage increases a few weeks ago. But I'd like to ask you when the budget support for this is coming in front of the National Assembly. It is therefore urgent that this can be discussed as soon as possible, and this must be ensured. A number of measures have been taken. We have also agreed and supported many measures, but the budgetary coverage of these must be ensured, and the proposals on which budgetary amendments and other economic decisions are based must be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. When are these expected? I asked him a number of questions, and we didn't get a meaningful answer. And I would also like to ask you, it is one thing in politics, political communication and rhetoric which means are used, but I would like to ask you that if there is some kind of change of perspective here, it should be the first to manifest itself or, essentially, to be seen as a partner in the various professional organisations and advocacy organisations. Unfortunately, it can be read many times that the Medical Chamber, the various pedagogical trade unions, local government associations or certain professional associations, such as the Water Utilities Association, resent that they are not considered partners. And I would add that even the pro-government mayors expressed such criticism as to why in such an epidemiological situation it is not possible to consider professional and advocacy organisations representing really important sectors as partners, to involve them in the preparation of various legislative proposals and to seek their opinion. I would also like to ask you back, ladies and gentlemen, I have a lot of professional signals to bring to Parliament regarding the maintenance and sustainability of the various basic public services. For example, in recent weeks, I have noticed that in the basic and epidemiological situation, it is not necessary to stress why it is the most important public service. In order to ensure sustainability in the supply of drinking water, we can say that fire-fighting measures should be implemented, and this will be fully strengthened by the profession, so the Water Utilities Association and other professional organisations are constantly sending signals to you that there is a huge problem and that immediate action is needed. And the Prime Minister has already admitted to an immediate question not so long ago that there really is a thousand billion in scale to solve this problem, but on the other hand, you have failed to take the first step that he has asked for from the profession, from the water utility sector to the public utility sector, and last week, a few days ago, a bill has been introduced that makes it virtually impossible to maintain the service here in Budapest and in several major cities. It does not lead to this unfair public utility tax, as the profession asks, which, by the way, disproportionately affects the water utility sector, but restructures it and tries to shift the burden to some operators. Also, explain why they do not listen to the signs of the profession and why they do not accept it. And for the last time, I let this happen, as the opposition's proposals are constantly being swept down, and what is the explanation for that? So I don't understand. There are many proposals that are indeed not the brainchild of opposition politicians, but rather a specific professional proposal and are presented in order to make the defence more successful. But otherwise, for example, there is a step that is quite clear that it would help families in the most difficult situation during the crisis, reducing VAT on basic foods. This was also swept away on the grounds that budget resources were not available, as well as other opposition proposals, such as the support of HUF 500 000 once in the social sector. But I do not understand, and they are still holding those investments... we have had a lot of discussions with Congressman Nacsa about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, this year and next year it amounts to HUF 200 billion. Well, shouldn't we stop this project? Shouldn't this huge amount be spent on these important purposes during a pandemic? You have encrypted the documents and contracts of this project for ten years, that there is any guarantee of exploitation at all, and from this amount, according to your calculations, 175 thousand new jobs could be created. Well, wouldn't it be time to put a stop to these crazy projects? We know that this project will bring 300 billion to Lőrinc Mészáros companies, these are already decided questions, but I think it would be a truly responsible attitude if these gigantic projects were to be stopped and the hundreds of billions of forints, which, in the case of this project, would otherwise amount to nearly one thousand billion forints, would be used to deal with the epidemic. And at the very end, I would like to point out to everyone that without strong and well-functioning authorities, the protection against the coronal virus epidemic will not be successful. I therefore ask you to withdraw the brutal austerity measures that have been enforced at the expense of the municipalities in recent years. With these restrictions, you do not damage the cities, not the municipalities, but the people who live there. In recent days, Prime Minister, he has announced an important measure, a legislative amendment requiring that public transport services should be compressed. This is indeed a very important measure to reduce congestion, but only a few months earlier you voted that the state should withdraw from support for local public transport, making it virtually impossible to implement this measure. I ask that these measures be withdrawn and, despite the worrying weekend signs, I ask that they do not think about new measures that would make it virtually impossible for the municipalities to operate, as they threaten basic public services that are important to the people living there, I am thinking about kindergarten care, nursery care, public lighting, water utility services, community transport. So I'm asking you to consider the municipalities as partners. However, the LMP, which was visible, supported a derogation from the house rules, and will also support this bill in the forthcoming vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-10-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Trust is the basis of every well-functioning human relationship, and it is not only between two people, but also in human groups, organizations, and relationships between many people. A well-functioning organization, a well-functioning community, can only build on trust. This is also the case for political communities, so it is a country, a nation, a society. And although we've heard a lot from Fidesz State Secretarys in the last few weeks, a quote from Margaret Thatcher to one of the most damaging neoconservative politicians that society doesn't exist, my good news is that there is a society. Just as nation, country, country exists, society exists, and the functioning of this society must be based on trust. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungary is not in a very good position in this regard. The fact is that the political department has played this trust many times over the last thirty years. Twenty years ago, the third republic was about making promises to the citizens of political elite Hungary that it could not deliver, or perhaps not really try. The institutions that were set up to fulfill these promises have failed. And these institutions, institutions of representative democracy, lack of trust in them, cannot function well and can not survive permanently. This failure, which is the common failure of countless successive governments, including the regime-changing Antall government or even the first Orbán government, was exploited in 2010 by Viktor Orbán and Fidesz-KDNP when the third republic was abolished. And the slowly eroding trust that had marked the twenty years that had passed has turned into trust in a whole new kind of promise. [[14.40]] But this new trust and the advance of one half of society quickly vanished. In fact, this trust was knowingly destroyed and consciously dismantled, consciously taking policies, steps, decisions that were not authorised, fully consciously and planfully conducted an illegitimate policy. This illegitimate policy was aimed at dismantling the republic, this illegitimate policy was aimed at eliminating the brakes and counterweights, eliminating any democratic control of government and legislation. This policy in Orbán was actually aimed at the total possession and uncontrollable exercise of power. That's what our last ten years have been about. This trust, which had previously vanished, in general, towards the political class and the political institutional system, has now become a very active doubt. On one side there are a few hundred thousand, perhaps one million, who have replaced trust with blind faith, zealous loyalty, unquestioned obedience, and thus follows every vibration of the regime, every change of direction, every instruction of the regime. [[István Hollik: Speak with respect!]] and there is a large majority of society, a significant part of them does not even give their voice in political opinion formation, whose members do not trust this government, or they know precisely that what they do day after day, seven, seven, and month-month-month-month is just the Hungarian people, the assassination of Hungarian society. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] We arrived in a situation like this in the spring of 2020, when Hungary was hit by a pandemic that is obviously not related to the political system, but the ability to combat, the ability to function successfully in society, is the best seen in precisely such a lively situation. In the spring of 2020, it was necessary for Hungarian citizens to have confidence in the government, to have confidence in the general government, the political leadership. That's the trust I needed back then. This lack of trust was deliberately strengthened by the first mandate law, in which there was no restriction, no time limit, no limit, and which was therefore unacceptable to the opposition at that time. The fact is that this preemptive mistrust has proved to be entirely justified. The measures implemented during the regulation governance this spring and early summer have often been in no relation to the control of the epidemic, but the rights of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian municipal authorities have been systematically mutilated. Let us remember what decisions have been made in the epidemic situation in the framework of regulation governance this spring. It was then that many of the local government's revenues and even its territory were withdrawn. We remember the special economic zone in Göd. Or that's when our right of information was even more reprimanded, so that we could learn how, on what basis, the government operates, the requests for data were unduly and unduly difficult. But this was also the time when a regulation introduced one of the most controversial elements of the slave law, the two-year one-sided working-time structure, in practice. During this period, they also continued the practice of supporting Hungarian businesses, not Hungarian people, economically, but using the epidemic, again the subsidies were granted to the Fidesz economic lunar yard. The system of direct subsidies has never been as revealing as this spring. The economic empire-building effort to strengthen and enable Fidesz's economic moonyard to expand further at the expense of the remaining independent economic operators, with the money of Hungarian and European taxpayers, was also the most visible. [[Máté Kocsis: What are you talking about?]] But they also gave themselves the opportunity to see that the Public Procurement Act... requires an example, Mr. Team Leader Kocsis. So the fact that the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros received 10 billion public money [[Máté Kocsis intervenes.]] The hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán's landlady, Viktor Orbán's cashier, received ten billion public money while they fired the workers working there, it is an unprecedented shame, but I would say in the same way that hundreds of billions are spent through Lőrinc Mészáros on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, instead of using these funds in economic defence. In the same way, they have allowed themselves to deviate from the provisions of the Public Procurement Act in a way that cannot be controlled in any way even afterwards. What they did was they gave themselves an unlimited license, and they abused, for example, breathing machines in excess, but so much so that they bought in tens of thousands of excess quantities, for 300 billion forints, often at five to ten times the price, often via offshore companies and known criminals, and this whole series remained completely unsolved and even unsolved. So when we get to 2.0 of the Delegated Act, we have to start from these experiences, while it is even more important than the spring that Hungarian citizens, Hungarian governments and their leaders, Hungarian opposition parties and representatives can trust the government. To successfully defend ourselves in a time of such a serious crisis, a functioning country, a functioning society, a functioning government and trust between people and institutions would be necessary. But how can we trust such a government? Obviously, in view of the special situation, you will be able to force yourself and say that it is good, let us assume that you too will rise to the responsibility, and from then on you will run Hungary's ship like a good, good helmsman. There were signs of this. The fact that the mandate is only 90 days away and that the extension of the scope of the regulations is for a specific period is a good sign. It is also a good sign that the Orbán government has finally taken the measures proposed by the Dialogue for weeks, and the restrictive and restrictive measures against the epidemic. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] These are good signs, but few. On the one hand, the lack of trust in society must be restored. This requires that economic measures and crisis management measures should not be aimed at the Fidesz economic lunar station again, not Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and the entire Orbán family should be the beneficiaries of public funds [[Noise from the pro-government benches.]] but 80 percent pay for all people, the job search allowance [[Intruder from the pro-government benches, you're lying!]] "Extension of sick money, providing a net percentage of sick money for everyone who cannot work because of the epidemic, raising the family allowance for families raising children, because now they are the most difficult situation, and creating a universal social institution, which is the most beautiful example of public trust, of responsibility for each other: the introduction of basic income. This would be a series of measures to restore people's trust. The second is the confidence of local governments and local government leaders in the government, which has also been blurring in a completely understandable way over the past period. This must also be restored, we must come back from the austerity measures that the Orbán government has imposed on the Hungarian settlements, and the new onion of the President of the Chamber of Industry to suspend all trade taxes and to make the municipalities virtually financially unenabled. Therefore, if the financial independence and security of the municipalities has been restored, then the confidence of the municipalities and the people who live there can be restored to the government. And I have some bad news: even opposition representatives' trust needs to be restored. And in this situation, there is a very simple and obvious way. The five opposition groups jointly submitted an amendment to this law, which concerns not only 50 Members but also the fact that, in the case of the contested regulations, the leaders of the factions can turn to the Constitutional Court in one person, which can then establish in three days the anti-law nature of a regulation or its consistency with the Fundamental Law. [[14.50]] This is the only concrete amendment that has been tabled, and for my part, I can advance confidence in this temporary and exceptional situation if you support this amendment. If they have nothing to fear, if they do not want to abuse this special situation again, if they do not want to deviate from the line of control against the epidemic, if they undertake to comply at least with the Fundamental Law which they have written themselves, then they cannot be afraid of this amendment. So if you vote in favour of this amendment, if you allow me to have control of the measures, then I can support this bill for myself, and we can advance the confidence without which a successful epidemic and crisis defence cannot work. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-10-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Székely. Here you go, Congressman, you have the floor... [[Bence of Tordai, pointing to Dr. Tamás Mellar: Shared lead speaker...]] Congressman, it doesn't work that way, and it should be read, and as a notary, I propose to you, once the house rules, and then you know, Congressman, that this is not a continuum, but separately, when it comes to the next block, I will speak accordingly. Now, please, have a seat. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties: Not even the notary knows the house rules! Are you a memo?]]
u2020-11-10-56	Thank you, it's just that a lot of time has gone by...
u2020-11-10-57	It's okay. Stay put, Congressman. I'll have Congressman Székely reset the time. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-10-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I don't have much time, so I'm trying to be quick. In the first authorisation law, you have purchased, among other things, ten billion medical devices that we have not been able to use very well. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Unfortunately?]] On the other hand, they did not help people to make up for their losses. Then it was said that you knew that the second wave would come, which would be much more serious than the first, and you did nothing to prepare for it. Even last week, even a few days ago, when the epidemic was already raging, sports events could still be held where thousands could be close together. And you didn't need any extraordinary authority to pass a health law in this House, which you lie about raising the wages of nurses in it, but you know very well that the rest of the law, unfortunately, will result in a huge loss of income for these people, and you do so at a time when an epidemic is raging in Hungary. The news is that thousands of people are considering leaving the field now that they are most needed. So the thing is, since I consider this law to be a farce in this form, I will not vote in favour of it, and I ask you that the health law in this form, because although it has good proposals, it can also cause disaster to be withdrawn overall. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-10-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-10-60	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I reject the unworthy attack that György Lukács has made against Secretary Judit Varga. There was no provocation on the part of the secretary, but on your part, the more so! Ladies and Gentlemen, Imagine that during the seven-party conciliation, the left-wing opposition provided a condition that they would support this bill if we agreed to allow the parliamentary faction leaders to vote on behalf of all the factions. Amazing! This is your idea of democracy. This is your concept and vision of popular representation. But your perception of democracy is even lower. Because right now, the Lajos Korózs has been made the left-wing speaker of the bill on the control of the second wave of the coronal virus pandemic, one of the biggest fake news companies in the case of the epidemic. Where are you going, ladies and gentlemen? And the third is my thoughts to Bence of Turdai. My request would be that if you no longer respect us, you should at least respect the Hungarian voters and respect the Hungarian rule of law. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Seems to me that's why there's a mix of terms. I would like to inform the House that the debate is not conducted in a keynote system, but in a so-called blocked system, so there is still room for two minutes. I give the floor to Mr. Matthew Kocsis. Here you go.
u2020-11-10-62	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Mr Arató, it would be better if you didn't peek from the corridor, if you'd already lied so much, but came in, because it would be fitting that when you say that Lajos Korózs' departure would render the Committee of Welfare inoperable, you could either not understand the functioning of Parliament, so that he too has become unfit or clearly is lying. Because the Social Welfare Committee has 15 members, which have four vice presidents, and we're asking you to appoint a new president that we'll elect next Monday. Because, Mr. Korózs, you say that all responsibility lies with the government. But all the irresponsible things are yours as chairman of the Health Commission. And don't miss. It's not three days since you faked death statistics. You don't have three days! Do you think that this kind of behavior can be included as the chairman of the Health Committee of the Hungarian Parliament? And you come here, and you do nothing, and you sit in the courtroom, and you make a face and you show me, and then you don't say in your speech that I'm sorry? ! [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame on you!]] Mr. Korós! We're playing with people's lives in an epidemic. I'm asking you to have a greater responsibility, and at least not to be cynical, and not to lie about dysfunction. Without you, the People's Welfare Committee would be much more functional than it is with you. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the MSZP Group, Mr Lajos Korózs asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-10-64	Very briefly. What you call "statistical data counterfeiting" is not that. A very famous journalist posted a diagram, and I shared it; when I later noticed that it contained two years earlier, I took it off. Haven't you ever deleted anything from your Facebook post? That's what I'm talking about, nothing else at all. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-10-65	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the next round of opposition. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Csaba Hende, Vice-President of the Parliament, will take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The second wave of the coronal virus epidemic does not spare our country; just as the virus is spreading more rapidly throughout Europe. Several countries have re-introduced the extraordinary legal order, and even some have been in force continuously since the first wave. It is known that the situation is difficult, but our chances are not bad, primarily because our country has world-class doctors and nurses who bravely, heroically and effectively fight the invisible enemy. In the spring we managed the first wave successfully because we Hungarians could join forces. In the second wave of trying time, we can do it again if we are united again. Listening to today's debate, this does not seem too simple, but we do not give up hope. I believe that the words of our great writer Dezső Szabó emphasize the importance of full national cooperation in these difficult times. Dezső Szabó said that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Of course, the government also has a huge responsibility, and the whole Parliament has a huge responsibility, but also each person is responsible for the health of other Hungarian people, those living in its surroundings, especially the elderly and chronic patients. That is why it is so important that, even if it is very uncomfortable, even if it involves a great deal of inconvenience, we should respect all the restrictions that the Prime Minister has announced yesterday, and, depending on the outcome of our vote today, these new restrictions will enter into force from midnight today. [[15.00]] Dear Parliament, Article 53 of the Fundamental Law provides for the possibility for the Government to declare an emergency in the event of an elemental disaster or industrial disaster threatening the safety of life and property, as well as to prevent the consequences thereof, and to introduce exceptional measures provided for in a cardinal law. Our Fundamental Law, which is the basis of our legal system, sets out, in a very detailed international comparison, what is to be done in extraordinary situations and what is to be done by which constitutional body. Extending the scope of the emergency beyond 15 days is the responsibility of the Parliament, and we are continuing this debate. The government is in charge of the 478-2020 announcement of an emergency. Under the mandate provided for in Article 53 of the Fundamental Law, Government Decree No. 53 issued a fully justified and well-founded emergency to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens in order to prevent the consequences of the coronal virus pandemic causing a mass disease endangering the safety of life and property. The Government may issue a decree in such an emergency, which will remain in force for 15 days, but the Government may, on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament, extend the scope of the decree. The bill before us is therefore intended to grant this authorisation. With regard to the duration of the authorisation, the proposal provides for authorisation under Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law until the expiry of the law, i.e. until 90 days after its entry into force, but the proposal makes it clear that this decision can be withdrawn and that, according to the law on legislation, Parliament may repeal it by law. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill requires, on a guarantee basis, that the government regularly informs the Parliament of the measures taken to prevent an emergency, and if for some reason, for example as the epidemic progresses, it is not possible because of the indecision of the Parliament, the faction leaders will be informed. This attitude, this action of the government, is indeed essential for the effective implementation of democratic dialogue. Dear Parliament, In view of today's debate, I am somewhat afraid to say that at this challenging time, which requires immense patience and discipline from citizens, it is of particular importance that all actors in the political spectrum agree as far as possible. The only thing that matters now is that the Hungarian people's lives are safe and that Hungary is successfully fighting the Crown Virus. Therefore, in this House, all of us, regardless of party standing, must support the bill before us. I close my speech with the words of the former wise statesman, Prime Minister István Tisza. We were thrown into the pan of world history, and it depends on our own weight what result this pan will produce. Let us show, then, fellow Members, that we are able to successfully face the world's epidemic by ensuring discipline and listening to one another of the rules. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Rig Lajos is coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent times, the various speakers of the factions approached this bill from the aspect of looking at the experiences and figures of the previous wave and trying to compare it with the current wave and figures. They tried it from a variety of political perspectives or from a professional point of view. I would like to do the same, supported by numbers, because you are saying statistical figures, numbers that concern, say, ventilators, and at the end of my speech, I would like to ask important questions that I would like to be answered, as much has been said, even from the Prime Minister's mouth, which has already been expected by citizens, but no answers have been given to details and details. If we look at the figures of the first wave and believe you've handled the epidemic well, and we take it as a basis, then we see that there were about 38-40 infections per day in the first wave. Here comes the second question: have we tested enough? If you say we've tested enough, it's true that you handled the plague well. Once again, at this fund, your claim is that we've tested enough in that period, handled the epidemic well, was about 38-40 infected per day, and 7-8 dead. Compare it with the post - September 1 data, when we saw that daily cases and the number of dead people increased. If you look at it, over the past period we have reached between 3 and 5 thousand cases per day; this is one hundred times the first wave. So the claim that this wave is being handled well has fallen. The measures you are about to take, unfortunately, are late; they are good, but they are late. If you look at the daily death rate, it could be between 80-100 people/day in the second wave. In the first wave, it was 7-8 dead on a daily basis, so more than ten times the number of dead per day compared to the first wave. I have to say, unfortunately, the second wave was not handled in time and misplaced. If you think I'm gonna give you another number that 100 dead a day comes out of the 5,000 infected people you register every day, you're wrong. This one hundred dead came out of the number of positive cases that were discovered a week and a half ago, were breathed for a week and a half, and were given intensive therapy, and unfortunately, their organization lasted about a week and a half. On the basis of the number of 5,000, this number, the number of dead, unfortunately, will double, triple, and do not give to God, even five times. After all, if we use our intensive capacity as a basis, there are 2 thousand intensive beds in Hungary at the moment. The number of qualified intensive doctors is 2,200, the number of specialists is 2,300. We were able to fire up the capacity we had. Just because the Prime Minister tells us that we need 2,400 intensive beds by the end of November, 4800 intensive beds at the end of December, we agree on this, but unfortunately our specialist does not have the ability to provide patients with professional, proper and safe care. Now, right now, there are nurses standing next to respirators trained in 12-hour crash course to use the ventilator or to assist in daily care activities. There's an intensive shift in hospitals where they're on shifts without knowing who's replacing them. Unfortunately, they were too late to treat the virus in this regard. If we look at the points that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has made, and we take out of it a fact that I think everyone has been waiting for, that we want to do a quick test for teachers, health workers and workers in the social sector, everyone agrees, and the opposition has asked for this, not once, several times. We have a lot of questions, and not just in us, but in the municipalities: who pays the musician first round? The state will provide the purchase of these tests, leaving it to the municipality because there are kindergartens in municipal reserve, KLIK will receive this task and receive money? The fourth question we're going to ask is who's going to run the tests. Is this another one of the overloaded National Rescue Service or the GPs? [[15.10]] Then we have a very important and crucial question: what quick test did you have in mind, Prime Minister? For a quick blood test, which the experts have already told me at the first moment that it has a maximum of 50 percent credibility? So a normal person can tell you whether you're infected or not, so it's like... That's 50 percent. Or the PCR-fast test with a PCR-fast test of 20 of approximately 170 thousand forints? I'd like to go back to the first question: who's going to finance these tests? Does the municipality provide assistance from its own budget, from the budget already reduced, or from the State to the municipalities? I have been approached by a lot of health workers who, for some reason, have been quarantined, whether as a close contact, and I would like to be answered that this could be done, whether because of their positivity at home. They went out there, they did the PCR test, but hold on, even health workers have to wait six to seven days to get results at the moment; negative, positive, whatever, the focus here is on the waiting period. If we want the system to work and that support to be provided, the number of health workers, then in the first step, their screening and results will have to be done with a statimos sign, so that they can go back to the system as soon as possible. So I ask the Minister, and it is possible for her to do their PCR tests within 24 hours in the case of health workers and social workers, because if they have to stay home for six days, this system will collapse. Let's say, first of all, on behalf of all the Members of Parliament, that we are going to vote for this law easily, because we need it. Those who maintain, operate and protect Hungary and, among them, the Members of Parliament, are health workers, but for the first time, let us not say that before us, but that after us, let us set an example. I've been translating their requests, so help them with that. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-10-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. There you go. You have the floor. [[Gergely Harvestó: I missed you so much!]]
u2020-11-10-70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I may, I would like to respond briefly to the comments that we have heard from the left. [[Gergely Harvesto: No need!]] Firstly, it is obviously a pleasure that Jobbik's speakers have confirmed that they will vote in favour today, but I have a very important request for you. At the time when they declare that they will vote in favour, several of their representatives on Facebook include:. Orbán and China and Russia are negotiating the vaccine, while German BioNTech and US Pfizer pharmaceutical companies have developed more than 90% effective coronal virus vaccines. Their rhetorical question:... Another fatal error on the part of the Orbáns? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Why do they want to follow the example of Lajos Korózs [[Gergely Harvesto: What's the answer?]] And why are they spreading lies? Well, you know as well as I do, the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that Hungary is a party to all the vaccine purchases launched by the European Commission. Why are they lying? So if you finally realized that you have a responsibility, and now you have to vote yes, then we would also have the respectful request to have such false news, please, do not spread it in the future. On the other hand, we have two requests for Congressman Lajos Korózs: one word and one action. The word is "excuse me" and the action is by finally taking his tent and giving up the leadership of the Welfare Committee. You've become incompetent. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and, unfortunately, this is confirmed by his speech as a keynote speaker, as he continued to spread the false news. In his own speech, he says that we do not have the data, and we do not know how many people are on a ventilator, for example, and not a minute has passed, and today's data is presented by number. Well, Congressman, don't lie anymore, don't make false news, please, give up the chairmanship of the People's Welfare Committee, and you've clearly become unworthy of that. The remarks made by DK regarding the social crisis, I just say that the party of the Gyurcsány austerity is not really hearing about credible restrictions or social crisis. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Congressman Torda was talking about a lack of trust. If there really had been a lack of trust in Hungarian society, which, according to you, makes him unfit [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] how do you explain that, although you did attack the defense, we were able to close the first wave of the epidemic and successfully defend ourselves against it? [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I have a question for you, Congressman. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Did you really think that to restore confidence, to strengthen trust, you would have to contribute by coming in here with a fellow Member of Szabó Timea and lying that most people in the world died in the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary? Are you serious? Will you please stop doing that, please? [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Cancel! Tordai resign!]] Mr. Crusade Leader says that the Welfare Committee should work. Mr. Head of Mission, we agree that you should only turn around and convince your ally, President Lajos Korózs, to resign from his presidency. So much for reactions. We're in a difficult situation, that's quite clear. Unfortunately, we can see that in Belgium, for example, the size or population of Hungary, there was one last week. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The fifth question of national consultation...]] when almost three times as many people died in Hungary, nearly 300 people died. It is therefore possible to see that the situation is difficult throughout Europe, and in order to deal with this situation, we need the government's rapid and effective measures. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We just want to see you.]] The government has always considered three aspects in the first wave. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: First: Lőrinc Ripper...]] : Protecting people's lives is of course a priority, since human life is the first; the second is guaranteeing the security of health care systems; the third is maintaining Hungary's viability as far as the health situation allows. The government has already taken its measures in such a way that it has met these three aspects and will continue to do so, which is why we must give it this power with this law, which lies before us. Moreover, this is important, because I see that you are also supporting the measures announced yesterday, but these measures can only be put into effect if we vote today on the bill before us. Please do the same, we will do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-10-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Mellar Tamás is coming to a proper speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-10-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is my great pleasure to discuss this bill on this occasion. I think we're in the 24th hour, and it's about time this came to light. For my part, I support and I will vote in favour of this bill because I think it is inevitably important. But just in order not to be in such a difficult situation again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are not in this situation by accident, because if we turn back time, we see that at the beginning of April the government came out with an economic protection programme, which the Prime Minister said was a historic and historic defence programme. At that time, in mid-April, we questioned this with fifteen Hungarian economists, and we said that, unfortunately, this kind of protection will not be enough to stop the crisis. Unfortunately, we were right, and by August it turned out that the historic defensive package had become a historical downturn, as an unprecedented decline has emerged in the Hungarian economy. [[15.20]] Why do I say that? Because the result was that in September-October, the government wanted to focus economic affairs and protect the economy from further decline, so it did not take action at the front of the virus treatment at all, even though it was already apparent that there was a need for serious interventions, but it also felt that this would start negative processes in the economy. That's why the delay was up until the beginning of November. Again, we are in a similar situation, because now these measures will have a very serious negative impact on the economy. Therefore, I would like to propose to the Government, to you, to pro-government representatives, to take this into account, and to vote on it now, and to take very quickly measures that give more money to people on the one hand, and to municipalities on the other, because this is the key to ensuring that there is no significant setback. The fact that they are launching public investments does not solve this problem, since there is a chronic shortage of demand in the economy. Rather, what my fellow Members have already said here is that we should extend the replacement to 80 percent, increase the family allowance, raise the unemployment allowance, raise the sickness allowance to 100 percent. [[Constant interrogations from the pro-government ranks, including: 100% sick leave?!]] These would all be measures that would help low-income households, and buying these households would bring in a positive multiplier effect, thereby reducing the economic downturn. If they do not do so, it will be once again that we will see that the economic downturn has taken the crisis management of the epidemic hostage and that the same problem will arise again. So I would like to remind you that it would be good not to wait, but to take these measures in parallel. Finally, I would like to say to Mr István Hollik that I was here when Szabó Timea gave his speech, not what István Hollik said. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government ranks, among them: Yes!]] That's not what he said. Szabó Timea said that the positive test was the highest and the highest number of deaths in Hungary compared to indicators. [[Noise, continuous interruptions from the pro-government benches, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: That is not true either!]] It's different than saying it's all of them. Let's look back at this thing, what numbers we're talking about, what numbers we're arguing about. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-10-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. For the remainder of the time, it is up to Member Lóránt Keresztes, Mr Group leader, from the Group of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-11-10-74	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I have been addressed, and I would really like to respond briefly to the question of Mr Hollik. On the matter of Mr Korózs, I have also expressed my opinion and I know that Mr Korózs has apologized. I do not mean it as a rhetorical question, Mr Hollik is not here, but my better fellow Member quoted Minister Gulyás's serious and irresponsible statement in the spring: did Minister apologize for this statement? Now I'm not going to quote it literally because it's a dangerous statement and you initiated the Minister's resignation? That's my question about that. Mr Csaba Hende has taken a very constructive approach, he has spoken about the importance of cooperation, and I think it is important, and I would like to ask the pro-government representatives and State Secretarys to consider interest protection organisations, trade unions, professional organisations and local governments as partners. One last thought: Congressman Vejkey accused the opposition, referring to the seven-party conciliation, as a bad idea of democracy, that opposition representatives would have imposed a condition that an element would be built in so that the group leader could cast his vote for each of the faction members. I ask Mr President, before you speak, to consult with the party leaders, the opposition has not made such a proposal. Indeed, such a suggestion was raised at the seven-party conciliation, but this was from the pro-government side. So I would like to ask you to be more informed, Mr President, before you stand up in Parliament and make some baseless accusations about the attitude of opposition representatives towards democracy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-10-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Tibor Bana is now coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the proposal before us, which concerns the management of the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, and it seems that we will vote on this with a very significant majority here in Parliament today. Just because I consider the Szabó Dezső saying to be important, too, to me that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, which my fellow Member Csaba Hende wrongly attributed to István Széchenyi yesterday, I am glad that he corrected this today. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: This should be the biggest problem.]] Although this would be the biggest mistake, we have unfortunately seen in recent months that constructive opposition proposals have not been adopted and have already been rejected at Commission level. I would therefore like to add that, as I have indicated, I am going to vote in favour, I would like to add that I would like to say a number of important points here, in this short time available, which should be taken into account from the pro-government part, for example, in order to improve the situation of health and social workers; or in a written question, I have also called to the attention of Minister Kásler that the transfers from Markusovszky Hospital in Szombathely are in a very bad direction. Doctors have been transferred from there to Győr, and this makes it difficult for patients to be treated there, which can cause serious problems in the next few days. And I think it is absolutely outrageous, my fellow members of the Government, what happened at yesterday's committee meeting at the People's Welfare Committee. In particular, you have exited with a noble simplicity when there were numerous opposition proposals on the committee's table that, in the present situation, would have helped our fellow countrymen in the coronal virus epidemic. Such was, for example, the motion I tabled to improve the wage and working conditions of health professionals working in primary care. It was therefore not possible to discuss this, even though it would be important for them to be included in the health pay table and pay directly from the National Health Insurance Fund Manager. We can see that, and the events of the last few days have accelerated this, that leaving a career is very important in the area of health and that it is also important to explore the issue of freedoms. That is why it would have been good for my fellow Members in Fidesz not to act as they did at yesterday's committee meeting. The Hungarian Health Association also made it clear that the health pay table should include those who are active in the basic health care system. In a few days, on the 12th it is the day of social work, we must also help social workers, we should also provide support to micro and small businesses, and I also had a concrete proposal for this, which is a particularly serious problem on the western border. I have also made such motions regarding testing, commuters, or just lost their jobs in order to help Vas County, if any, the Saturdays. Unfortunately, these were not supported. Today, tourism and catering workers will stand up for themselves. I would also ask you to take these into account, and finally allow me to thank everyone who has done their best over the last few months, and they are doing their best, and I wish everyone good health. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-10-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. Mr György Szilágyi, from the Jobbik Group, is next, against the time frame. Here you go.
u2020-11-10-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Hollik's speech, who said in his speech that the second wave had a solution, that Lajos Korózs should resign. You can't blame this on anyone else, gentlemen. Believe me, in a time of such an epidemic, the most important thing is how the government behaves, how it leads by example. We could list things in order not to have a double standard. When Örs Farkas, spokesperson of the Governmental Information Centre, takes pictures without a mask in a match; when Gergely Gulyás, Minister of Prime Minister's Office says: "We also see and can say that we, who are present in this room, can safely infect each other, at most, with the symptoms of an unpleasant flu; or when Viktor Orbán says: "Everyone can relax on 17 September, because if we catch the disease, we will cure it, since then hundreds of people have died when making such statements, do not try to blame the responsibility on anyone else. The current situation is your responsibility, the Fidesz and the government. You created this situation, you are the reason Hungary is in this situation today, and, yes, we will help you to recover from this situation, but not you, but Hungary and the Hungarian people, because that is the most important. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-10-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Volner is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.30]]
u2020-11-10-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind Bence of Turdai when he asks anyone that it is your direct boss who, by the way, ordered masks from Ferenc Gyurcsány's former Minister of Health and other billionaires linked to the socialists. I understand, of course, that you needed a man to bring the character of a complaining little boy into politics as a political innovation, this is your boss, Gergely Christmas, who always cries for something, and I'm sorry for the expression. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But sometimes he complains about lack of money, sometimes he complains about being bullied, sometimes because he's lost his game. There is always something new, but, Mr President, you are buying from socialist entrepreneurs, the Red Barons, while the country is in an emergency trying to prevent major health problems. Well, let me ask you guys where the deputy mayor responsible for transparency is at this time. You're not doing your job? Is it entirely a coincidence that Ferenc Gyurcsány's people always come to their minds when they have to spend public money? Whether this suggestion is justified or not, the world is going on, they want to replace the Fidesz by bringing back the Nokis boxes of the Demszky-Hagyó-age, but by the way, I'm telling you that there's not enough for that kind of money, because they've grown over that long ago. It is very important to answer this question, Mr President, there is still a time frame for you to rise and give your opinion on it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is next for a two-minute speech.
u2020-11-10-82	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The MSZP may be alarmed if Bertalan Tóth has sent their epidemiological expert, Lajos Korózs, supported by the councils of Attila Németh, to one of the most important epidemiological debates of the autumn session, who, after his glorious production, continued to lie this weekend: he was now a statisticist and falsified mortality statistics. Here, too, in his speech, he kept lying. You create rumors, you cause panic, and you deceive me. Do you think this is the hallmark of the chairman of the Welfare Committee? Should he be the president of the Welfare Commission, who's always lying in the middle of a pandemic? ! Mr. Congressman, you were talking about sick money, you were the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour, when, without blinking, sick money was cut by 10 percent in the crisis. [[Miklós Soltész: Shame on you!]] Without blinking! Now that he's been falsifying statistics, that's the bottom of everything. You can explain yourself here, Congressman, but somehow you always have a problem with information and reality. Congressman Torda said that we copied this proposal from them. Well, Congressman, we don't want to ban pensioners from public transport, as you would have wanted. And, honourable Jobbik, LMP, DK, MSZP and dialogue representatives, from now on you are accomplices until Lajos Korózs remains chairman of the People's Welfare Committee, and you do not call him back from there, because he has become unworthy of this position. [[Peter James: It will be little, my friend, it will be little!]] You're all accomplices here from now on. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will move on to the next round of regular speeches. Mr János Bencsik is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-10-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In an emergency situation affected by an epidemic, health protection and the restoration of health, healing and healing conditions are the most important. But it is equally important to maintain the functioning of the economy, while guaranteeing access to public services. However, there is an area which has already been discussed in the national expozee, but has not been discussed in the debate, and this is that in an emergency, fundamental civil rights must be restricted only under fair conditions and within reasonable limits. A local referendum initiative is currently under way in the Tatai Basin, which I represent. On the day of publication of the emergency, there were only seven days left to collect signatures. More than 6,000 inhabitants of Tata gave their names for the initiative. Under the current rules, these six thousand supporting signatures should be destroyed and the whole local referendum initiative should be restarted at the end of the epidemic. This, I think, is an unfair situation for all of us, both for the people who initiated the referendum and for the citizens who supported the referendum. That is why we have initiated the Legislative Committee to ensure that this procedure is not interrupted, and that local referendums in general should not be interrupted, but only suspended, and that when the epidemic period expires, it can continue from then on, while complying with the deadlines laid down by law. I would like to thank the Legislative Committee for the fact that this correction has been recorded in their amendment, so that it is possible for all of us in the summary proposal to support the fact that, in addition to safeguarding health, ensuring the functioning of the economy, fundamental citizens' rights, which relate to a local referendum, remain alive, and that there is no unfair disadvantage for the initiators or voters. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-10-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, to the extent possible. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-10-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to ask the government why we couldn't get a similar proposal in March. Why did you have to bring about an internal political turmoil in March with an emergency law that wasn't actually used for a minute? Because in no other way did the government carry out its activities than they will after voting in favour of this law. Why did the beginning of the epidemic have to be used to discredit the opposition and to show people that the opposition did not want to take part in the fight against the epidemic? It is not a question for any opposition Member today to vote in favour of this proposal, but the same proposal would have been voted in March by the opposition groups and representatives of Parliament. I simply do not understand, my fellow Members, that the energy that was spent at the time on domestic political turmoil was not used to create the professional standard of protection against the epidemic and to develop all the procedures that companies, organisations, schools and health institutions could have implemented in the second wave, and I would not hear it, nor would I see from writing, from the hospital in Veszprém, from nurses and doctors, that: Andrea, for Christmas, we are all going to pass out. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-10-87	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, there is someone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I respectfully ask Minister Judit Varga that she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Dear Madam Secretary, It has a time frame of 9 minutes and 30 seconds. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We've already run out of time, so I don't want to waste any more time talking. As rapporteur for this presentation, I was pleased that no one made a legal critical remark, so I thank my colleagues for their swift professional work. Allow me to draw attention to the big picture again. More than 50 million coronal virus infected have been registered worldwide, and the number of victims has exceeded 1.2 million. That's the big picture. A lot has been said here in this Chamber, I have heard many political speeches, and I would like to give you only three important points for the road before you vote on the bill. It took place at all times in view of the Hungarian measures. We have heard a lot of statistics here, it is not a competition, the real competition in the world is for the vaccine, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Everyone in this race was equally interested. [[15.40]] But if we have already said that Austria is our laboratory many times, let me draw attention to the fact that on 31 October Austria decided on the same restrictions when the number of new infected people was 5243, which is 592 per million inhabitants. Similar restrictive measures were taken only 9 days later in Hungary, where the new number of infected people per day was 5162, 528 per million inhabitants. So at the same time, at the same stage of the epidemic, we took the same steps. It is not worth giving up in such an extremely precarious situation. The vaccine is the truest race, and I think we need to defend ourselves until then. We've got our tools, we're the world's leading in the number of respirators per person. In terms of the number of hospital beds, we are the third best in Europe. But we know there are finite numbers. We know that health care workers, doctors, while providing the maximum capacity, cannot be overwhelmed, it is important that we can slow down the spread of the epidemic. These measures and the measures to be taken in the future are related to this. To do this, I asked for your support today so that they could remain in force for 90 days until we all hoped the vaccine would arrive. I believe that unity and discipline are the true reserves of the nation. I ask you and the Hungarian citizens to mobilise these reserves; and let us not repeat the spring shame when the Hungarian government was responsible for defending itself, while opposition, left-wing representatives tried to weaken the defensive measures of the Hungarian government both abroad and in Hungary. Mr Kocsis said that we are also asking you here to pay attention to communication, as they also weaken these measures, the impact of these measures. [[Moraj in the benches of the opposition.]] It was once suggested in a speech that rumors should be spread as if they were tied to a separate profession. No, ladies and gentlemen, it applies to everyone in Hungary regardless of profession or position, because it is our responsibility to overcome this epidemic, so that we can succeed in the second wave. So I ask for the support of honourable ladies and gentlemen for the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-10-89	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place in the next few minutes. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decision, we will also decide on the adoption of a bill requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the resolution rules 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin, ladies and gentlemen, the voting procedure, I ask partly the technical staff of the Parliament to check in the horseshoe, are okay with the conversion of voting machines, and in order to check the operationality of the voting machines, we hold a presence check according to our custom. I would ask my fellow Members to press one of the buttons of their voting machines. Please vote now. [[Attendance check. Score shown on the board: present 179, away from 20.]] There are 179 of us here, ladies and gentlemen, 20 of our fellow Members are away. Next up is the T/13571. on the protection against the second wave of the corona virus pandemic. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision today, the bill is being discussed by Parliament by way of house rules. T/13571/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that in point 6 of this Article, point 4 is replaced by the following: A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of the new provision (paragraph 3) of paragraph 3, and the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13571/5. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the part of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 180 votes in favour, with 1 abstention, without voting against. We are now deciding on the parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13571/5. A simple majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 180 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The final vote will now follow, in which we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13571. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 180 votes in favour, 1 vote against and without abstention. We now decide on the provisions of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13571. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 180 votes in favour, 1 vote against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the room.]] [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We'll get back to work. The speeches following the agenda will follow. [[Move.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now on an urgent matter, to do so as soon as possible, so that the speeches after the agenda can be made in order. Thank you very much. You have applied for a post-meeting speech for how long? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-90	Mr President, Dear House, While Parliament has taken the necessary decisions in an epidemiological emergency, I feel that decisions to be supported and supported by every faction are not mentioned here in the list of daily pro-government production reports, Hungarian workers and the extremely difficult situation that Hungarian workers are now in as a result of the economic crisis caused by the epidemiological emergency. While the countries of Europe are competing to develop different solutions for the replacement of lost wages, the Orbán government, which is already very combative and which is also fighting the European Union and intergalactic government, is quite simply not as brave on this issue as it would be for the entry category. During the spring, remember that on the third day of the emergency, Jobbik placed on the table the construction of the Hungarian Job Protection Fund, which would replace 80% of the wages lost from a central fund and extend it to those who have already lost their job. Let us note that, in essence, all opposition parties were lined up with a similar 80-percent structure, the Orbán government was the only one who thought for a month and a half about what kind of solution he would consider to be a good solution, and he announced something 14-15 of the European Union countries, announced a partial wage replacement programme for falling wages, which was able to make up to 10-15 per cent of lost wages on average compared to the better 80-percent proposal, and 20 per cent in certain sectors, in a very selective manner, leaving out workers from all sectors, and on the other hand, operating Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit system. That three-month unemployment allowance with a very reduced, low amount of money simply cannot be a meaningful message to the people in trouble now. That is why we are saying that it would be necessary to immediately replace the loss of wages, to do so by setting up a central fund for which multi-enterprises and banks would have to shoulder proportionate burdens from the approach to public burdens, not only the parties, the municipalities, and the Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, we see that this government is cold from the Hungarian employment protection fund, as it seeks to enlarge, in its media, measures that cost a billion or two forints or a few ten billion forints as if it were to turn the Hungarian fate, the future in itself in a clear and positive direction, but at the same time it does not speak about the blows affecting all social groups. We have now quoted in Parliament dozens of times that Hungarian people are being evicted from their homes again this week, but I would like to emphasise once again that the fate of the people evicted has not reached government production reports. Since 2010, we have been talking about more than ten thousand families, and this is the fate of our future countryman who lives in ten thousand real estates, otherwise hoping for a future. In the meantime, we also see that families now in a difficult situation are facing the highest VAT rate in Europe, which applies to a large part of basic food. With regard to children's education articles, there is also a world record VAT, brutal tax burden on families who are left out of the upper middle class, who can enjoy a large mass of family benefits. The eviction moratorium has not been ordered. In addition, another important better proposal has not been implemented. In the spring, this government has ordered a moratorium on loan repayment, although Jobbik can support this proposal at any time with mines and a ticking atomic bomb built into it, but now it narrows it down to a third to a quarter of the previous stakeholders by autumn. In this way, a lot of people are in a position to lose their jobs, their wages, their income, but the obligation to repay their loans at interest rates falls on them. They may then be evicted from their homes, while, on the basis of dubious or real claims, different executive teams may ban 33, or 50% of the minimum pension and the lowest income. That is why I call on the government, if it really is as feisty and brave as it shows itself, to order the moratorium on eviction, the partial enforcement moratorium, so that it is not possible to ban the funds needed to make a minimum living. And we also see that the wage losses must start to be replaced, at least 80% of them. Until then, they can only talk about a dwindling social safety net, on which hundreds of thousands will fall, falling out if the cataclysm-like crisis is deepened. And we don't want to let that go. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-11-10-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Instant steps from the LMP Group on the protection of small settlements, László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, applied for the post-meeting speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-92	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Indeed, I have spoken a lot in the Parliament's meetings over the last few weeks, in recent months, about the difficult situation of small settlements. So, in the beginning, especially in peripheral areas, these small settlements are in a very difficult situation, there are very poor demographic indicators, there is a terrible degree of emigration, and we can say that in recent years the government has not managed to take any steps to slow down this break-off, and we can see that now small settlements have much less access to the most basic public services compared to previous cycles. However, I also said that the objectives are in order, but we also agree with the objectives of the Hungarian village, but at the same time the resources provided are simply insufficient. And I have long considered how difficult it is for small settlements to have access to truly basic services. It's part of the problem system. The other is that, unfortunately, corruption can be observed in this small settlement category, and, if such a comparison can be made at all, that it is a much more reprehensible or even greater crime if such a small settlement is cheated by the elected leader, and the resources already very, very narrowly available are being cut off or managed irresponsiblely. Of course, it is obvious that there is no tolerance to any level of corruption, so obviously we are expressing zero tolerance to corruption, but still, I think we need to talk about the fact that, unfortunately, corruption also exists in such small settlements. In particular, I would like to talk about the situation of a small settlement, which has indeed been affected at this level, and this has put this small village in a very difficult position. Last year, a new mayor received his mandate here, and he revealed previous cases, and he revealed a lot of corruption and corruption cases to the competent government office in the county, which, we can say, is an example of this settlement, but we can say that it can appear elsewhere as a system problem, which is why I think it is important to talk about it in Parliament. Unfortunately, the mayor has every right to say that the steps of the county government office were inadequate. On the one hand, the government office did not take legal action in its own jurisdiction, it referred to the mayor, or did nothing to resolve any system problems that could in any case be observed. Then Mr. Mayor came to me, and I reviewed it, and I can tell you that I have seen some rather shocking, almost unimaginable examples of how this settlement could be damaged. I will give you just one or two examples, because such a five-minute speech is insufficient to list many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many cases. In 2012, the mayor of that time concluded a sales contract with his own son for HUF 1.2 million, which was then questionable market value, and sold the village tractor to his son on the basis of a representative board proposal. At the same time, he transferred a sheet of the tractor's forints worth about one million to his son in a contract, and this was not specifically included in the board decision, it was not among the decisions that authorised the mayor. In particular, he damaged the settlement, he transferred a 1 million-forint sheet for free. Then, in 2016, the same mayor also sold an area to his own son in the settlement below the market price, and justified this decision by the fact that his son has been selflessly doing village maintenance work for years. That's pretty amazing. Then the same mayor launched a purchase of HUF 3 million for the construction of a motor vehicle storage unit. Payments were made, but the vehicle storage facility was not built. The design documentation has been completed specifically, but nothing else has been taken into account. [[16.00]] Similarly, the same mayor voted several times at the board meetings that he was concerned about the contracts relating to his son, but he did not indicate this despite the relevant rules, asked for his exclusion from the vote, and so the votes took place. It would be possible to give a long description of the knife opening examples of what has happened. These cases were sent to the government office by the new local mayor, who took office, which replied that, if he thought it was necessary, he should press charges, but the government office did not act, at least we do not know that these system problems, control and non-corruption problems could be identified. Well, I was approached by this mayor. I can tell you that, of course, in these matters, we have filed a joint complaint with Mr. Mayor. I can say that, based on these shocking examples, and seeing many other problems, which we can say are systemic problems, we will make concrete proposals in order to reduce them in legislation, rule out the possibility of corruption, unspoken corruption at this level in small settlements or even in any other settlement. There is also a need to face system problems as to why the government structure is so inadequate at the moment, why it cannot filter out these cases that have been implemented for many years, and why an automaticism cannot develop, so that if such cases are known, they can take action. I very much hope that these proposals will come to fruition, and that the majority of pro-government representatives will also support the use of corruption in such tiny settlements with all the means possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-10-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The ideal conditions for quality education in Somogy! Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Young people have the future, we can hear this eternal truth, and quickly add that the future of young people is based on the quality of education, namely the level of education our children and grandchildren receive in schools, and the knowledge they can use to start a certain capital life. Today, too, there is much debate about what, what quality, how to teach young people, but, fellow Members, we may agree that quality education also requires quality conditions, namely XXI. Infrastructural conditions of the century and, last but not least, prepared, dedicated educators who are financially and socially valued. And let's see what happens in Somogyland at the Siofok School District Center. In the vast area from Balatonvilágos to Vése, two thirds of teachers in nearly 100 educational institutions are over 45 years of age and teach children with a cumulative disadvantage or special educational needs for roughly HUF 314 thousand gross. It is well known that training these children requires a great deal of knowledge and experience. It can also be seen that the teaching profession among young people is not attractive, there is a great deal of turnover, there are a lot of detachments, and it is no coincidence that education has been interrupted in many Somogy village schools in recent years, or even education has ceased, because despite the series of applications, it has not been possible to provide teaching services. And let's look at the infrastructure conditions. The Siófok School District Center can spend roughly 900 million forints per year to ensure the purchase of equipment for schools, renovations, maintenance and development. And for what it's worth, or for what it's not enough, let me give you an example of Marcali. The insulation of the top of the Berzsenyi Dániel High School is reported to be a joyful news, otherwise it will come from 80 million forints, but it is not likely that this year there will be any money to renovate the risky sports field or to replace the windows, and during winter this year students will probably have to listen to the lessons in the cold and in the high school rooms, and teachers will also have to do quality education in these conditions. I can bring you the status of the Marcali Seven Color Flower Elementary School. It's not a new problem. They closed the attic three years ago, because the leaks made them moldy, and the classrooms, the teachers' rooms, the bathrooms, so the education was impossible. That would take a lot of money to renovate this building. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of clarity, I would like to stress that these buildings are typically owned by the municipalities. However, the trustee is the school district center, he has the task and duty of regularly maintaining, developing, renovating buildings, but there is no money or money for this. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Government of Hungary to provide a source for the development of schools in Somogy. We can also see a special source in government decisions from the events of the past few weeks in Fejér county, Veszprém county schools, which is really only the government's decision. The demand would be there. We feel that thousands of students studying in Somogy should provide the ideal conditions for quality education. 100th-century circumstances. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-10-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gergely Kálló, from Jobbik's Group, has also applied for a post-scheduled speech:, What is left of the big dreams today? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-10-96	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start with quotes at the beginning of what I have to say. I define municipalities not primarily as public authorities, but as public service institutions, which also perform functions of public authority. I see a great chance in releasing local energies, supplying the public with public services, controlling the spending of public funds, expanding the means to meet the needs of the public. A real opportunity for citizens to take control of their material and spiritual needs and receive the assistance of the state. I would also like to quote from the same speech:, Of course, the most important thing in the relationship between the state and the municipalities, as my fellow Member György Szabad referred to, is the existence of structures and legal guarantees in balance, i.e. the state that overpowers and always overpowers us, how we can constantly squeeze it into its own jurisdiction., These sentences were made in 1990 by István Illéssy, who was the first freely elected representative of Dunaújváros and its neighbourhoods, and in the MDF government he led the MDF government to set up the local government. I am very proud to be in a good relationship with Illéssy Pista to this day and to help with my work as a representative. You can see that the Pistas, the Istváns, put a very idealistic local government, a very idealistic plan on the table and tried to implement it. They believed in people, believed in self-organization, believed in local self-organization, believed in the independence of local governments. Thirty years have passed since the establishment of the first municipalities. And what's left today? My brother's system. All municipalities are at the mercy of the government, Fidesz, and if they are independent or possibly oppositional, they may be afraid. I've brought examples from the past period. I would like to highlight Dunaújváros, one of the centers of my district, but I also talk about other settlements. HUF 270 million of loan repayment/year; we have to repay a loan that is suspected and reported in a completely irregular manner and is spent. [[16.10]] 200 million forints minus the loss of state normatives and the take-off of business tax surplus. 123 million forints minus taking away the car tax, and 7 million forints minus the loss of the tourist tax. This is the sum of 600 million forints per year minus since Dunaújváros has a new leadership. You refer to the epidemic situation, but most of the measures you have taken will be kept alive until 2024. This has nothing to do with the plague. Let me quote something right now: the previous management and the Orbán government cut us off by HUF 50 million a month. I quote this from the deputy mayor, Zsolt Szabó. But let's keep going. There are other settlements in my district. Percata. Perkatan recently resigned from Fidesz City. Do you know what preceded his resignation? He cornered the non-protective, net independent representatives that if they resign, only HUF 330 million would arrive at the settlement for development purposes. Well, they didn't resign. Balázs Somogyi had to resign as Fidesz mayor, and I don't have to tell you that the money is not in the corner yet. And there's one more very harsh thing they're about to do to threaten the municipalities. László Parragh suggested to Viktor Orbán that we take away the business tax from the local authorities or that businesses not have to pay for it. I understand the point, they forget only one thing: there is a settlement for which the trade tax and the car tax are the only source of income. If you guys take this away, the small and medium-sized settlements will go bankrupt. Don't touch the business tax. But I'm not the only one suggesting that. There are those who are good, and there are those who give bad advice. As mayor of the town of Győr, I say this is very bad advice. That's what your Fidesz mayor Csaba Dezsi said. Listen to Csaba Dezsi. I'll remain a servant of my district. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-10-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on Monday 16 November 2020. Now I thank you all for your work. Have a nice, lucky day, have a good night home, and good night to all of you. The meeting's closed.
