u2020-05-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. To help us today, Győző Vinnai and György László Lukács will help us. I also welcome our colleagues, who remain present and perform their duties every day. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. He applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Group of Dialogue with the title of Mr Tamás Mellar on current issues. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A few days ago, the government published the convergence programme for the period 2020-24. This is a very important document, as it explains what the government is aiming at and how it is trying to achieve these goals in the current situation. The convergence programme shows that the economic downturn will be 3 percent in 2020, that is, this year, but next year, in 21 we can expect a high economic growth of 4.8 percent. It is clear that the government is expecting a crisis in the shape of a V, so that the crisis will run quickly and then a rapid recovery. So be it, I think it's in everyone's best interest. Moreover, the European Union Economic Commission expects a V-shaped crisis in Hungary, but they are predicting a much larger 7 percent decline this year. In line with this, the European Union is indicating a 7 per cent unemployment rate for the Hungarian economy this year, and the government is counting on less, 5.6 per cent unemployment rate. It also shows that the Prime Minister's ambitious plan to create as many jobs as the virus will destroy will not be realized, despite the frequent repetition of magic words and many paid advertising costs us tax-paying citizens 15 billion forints, because according to the Prime Minister's plan the unemployment rate should not increase, it should remain at a level of 3.5 per cent before the crisis if we can create so many jobs. Even next year, the unemployment rate will not be 3.5 per cent, as the convergence programme also provides a 4.3 per cent unemployment rate by 2021. Nor will the Prime Minister's other objective be met that the general government deficit should remain at 2.7 percent, so it must be below 3 percent, because the convergence programme states that the deficit will be 3.8 percent this year. Consequently, the debt/GDP ratio will rise by 6.3 percent, i.e. to 72,6 percent, i.e. to a very significant extent. At this point, it is worth recalling that in recent weeks, the Prime Minister has often said that aids cannot be distributed, subsidies cannot be given to Hungarian people, but jobs must be created because aid leads to a government deficit, and the government deficit leads to sovereign debt, and the increase in public debt is a very bad thing, only the socialist governments do it, but the conservative government, the Fidesz government, does not do it. Indeed, it is clear from the crisis management of recent weeks that the government has kept this promise, does not provide aid to those in need, but the convergence programme shows that, on the one hand, there will be insufficient jobs because they do not create enough jobs and on the other hand, they are not able to capture the debt/GDP ratio, so public debt is also increasing. There will therefore be neither sufficient jobs nor adequate social support, but the debt-to-GDP ratio will increase significantly. My big question in this situation is where the money will be. Dear government, that's what you should answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-11-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be given on behalf of the Government by Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start with the points where we have a consensus. Obviously, there is agreement between us that the coronal virus epidemic, unfortunately, has effects not only on human life and health, but also on the functioning of the economy. Thus, everyone in the Western world, no matter how much of a relative good position, can expect an economic downturn. If I understand the words of the Member correctly, we also agree that Hungary's relative positions are good in international comparison. This is due to the absence of structural problems in the country compared to crisis management in 2008-2009. If we look at the macroeconomic data that were produced before the crisis started, they showed a prosperous, healthy economic structure. Since there is no such structural problem, we assume that if the uncertainty caused by the epidemic is reduced, not only in Hungary but also in our export markets, the Hungarian economy can come out of this situation better than in 2008-2009. That's one part of it. If you look at international comparisons, Member, the IMF has a European comparison that says that Hungary will suffer the smallest economic growth downturn after Malta. We hope that this time the IMF will be right on the basis of a new methodology that has been developed over the past ten years. Moreover, the forecasts do sound from a government point of view, as the Member said, so we expect a reduction in GDP for this year and GDP growth for next year. There are more optimistic predictions, some constitutional bodies, such as the Hungarian National Bank, suggest a more optimistic scenario, but our job is to prepare for the worst and do something about it and hope for better scenarios. That is why we have set it as a basic position, just as the crisis management government that will take place in 2010 has set out the principles on which we want to work. The principle you mentioned is that we will create as many jobs as the crisis will destroy. You doubt that. I had a feeling about déjà vu, because between 2010 and 14 we have heard from you and experts close to you constantly that the restructuring of the economic structure will not succeed, the crisis management measures that we have introduced will not bring economic growth [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] will not succeed in creating a million new jobs, will not succeed [[Bence of Turdai: You're not gonna make it!]] bring unemployment figures from more than 12 percent to close to 3 percent. [[11.10]] I report, Mr President, that, despite you saying that these objectives cannot be achieved, we have all succeeded in achieving these goals. So when we define the goals of helping everyone who is in need because of the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic, and ultimately either by encouraging the market and investment, by creating jobs, or by the state, we will create as many jobs as the epidemic will destroy, I would like to ask you to accept the same basic position, because when we started in 2010, you did not accept it, and yet it turns out that we are right, we are able to meet the goals that we set. I can tell you that if you and the experts close to you say that this is not going to work, then this is the first sign that we are on the right track. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, entitled News Affairs, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-5	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It will be disgusting and shocking for everyone who is forced to watch or experience the lies that the Hungarian government is dealing with and doing against the local governments, and we hope that it will not be necessary to say this in the future. We can all remember the sentence that Gergely Gulyás said here, within the walls of this House, that the contribution of the 3200 municipalities of Hungary to the defence will amount to HUF 34 billion, and this HUF 34 billion is the residual part of the motor vehicle tax. Compared to this, it is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, that since then the municipalities have lost their tourist tax revenues, the municipalities of Budapest have lost their tax revenue, and this is all because of your decision, their parking revenues, and apparently, the municipalities of Budapest have also begun to lose their investment resources provided or provided by the government. Only recently, the government took away the IX. 400 million forints for the renovation of the József Attila Residential Community House and VIII. The district also failed to invest more than HUF 1100 million. I can't help but think that the government has made these decisions on a strictly party political basis, and, yes, this is the personal revenge of Máté Kocsis, the leader of the Fidesz faction, because I think that this decision should not have been very deep in political science if the high-powered leader of Fidesz had spoken out against the withdrawal of investment resources that affected his own constituency, then this decision would not have been possible. Unfortunately, we see that the leader of the Fidesz faction is unfortunately not young, including myself, but unfortunately, we are no longer a Democrat, and the alliance that should have been concluded with society has been terminated. 'Cause what are we looking at? We can see that the Hungarian government is incredibly mistaken when it thinks that these resources will be taken from András Piko or Krisztina Baranyi. The government is incredibly wrong, because this money is made by the VIIIth and the IXth. people in the district will lose it. After all, what happens when the government takes 1100 million forints from the VIII. District? The investment in housing, such as the one under VIII, cannot be realised. You could have improved the living conditions of people living in district apartments, and, yes, my fellow Members, it does not seem important to you that thousands of people still live within pendant walls. The development of Horváth Mihály tér will be abandoned as a result of their decision, and the development of nursery and kindergarten will also fail, the victim of which will not be András Piko, but children aged 2-6 and their parents. I also think that the investment in SOTE II will be missed. The car park planned for the 4th OB would be implemented, and the experience of many people will continue to experience the arrival of the child and the Santa package under the car's windshield. There is money in the budget, since during the same period you spent 15 000 million forints on government propaganda, during the same period you spent 10 800 million forints for sport, and Eximbank received nearly 15 billion forints. With all due respect, these figures perfectly show that you are the ones who are using the crisis to counter party politics and are breaking off the alliance with the voters, the Hungarian nation, with our countrymen. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's look at the facts. Before 2010, the municipalities were in debt, ahead of destruction, and between 2010-14 Hungary's Government freed the municipalities from debt of HUF 1369 billion. Government policy before 2010 and the MSZP-SZDSZ governments have made the management of municipalities impossible, and their resources have not even covered the performance of their most basic tasks. Several municipalities are on the verge of bankruptcy, and the government has therefore taken over all or part of the tasks that the municipalities have not been able to carry out in an appropriate and uniform manner. At the same time as consolidation, we have established rules that make borrowing within a reasonable framework, but do not prevent the development of settlements. We have also provided priority resources for the support of the 1172 municipalities that manage without credit, and we have not forgotten them, they have also received significant resources, and we have moved to task-based funding, which means that municipalities will receive tied-use grants. As far as the current situation is concerned, honourable Member, it must also be stated here, and several of my government colleagues have said on several occasions that the government is counting on the municipalities as an ally in the fight against the epidemic and expects the municipalities to take their share of the burden. At a time when the trade sector's shutdown represents a GDP loss of HUF 200 billion per week, it may not be considered excessive that local governments contribute to the defence by HUF 34 billion. This means a car tax or parking, but it is part of the defence and can be called a good measure, because fewer people are on buses and community transport where the risk of infection is much higher. Local governments also need to adapt their farming in the current situation. What could have been a preference for this year's budget is now likely to go further. In order of importance, we live in different times from when the municipalities planned their budgets when the municipalities adopted their budgets. It is important to point out that, in terms of the size of the car tax, it represents 1.2 per cent on the revenue side of the municipal budgets! Therefore, this does not mean that the municipalities will be destroyed. The governments of Hungary are stable and have managed stablely in recent times, as I have said, as a result of the government's municipal policy, we can say this with a calm heart. [[11.20]] The amount of the municipal contribution is HUF 34 billion, with the budget of the municipalities increased by several hundred billion forints in recent years, and now it is some 1800 billion forints of which the municipalities manage each year. So it's 34 billion forints versus 1800 billion forints. The economic results of the last ten years have put the municipalities of Hungary in a position that makes it easier for them to take their share of the public burden than if they had to do so before 2010. As regards the car tax: in recent years, the income from the car tax has been the only split tax revenue, the extent of the transfer, the portion of the revenue due to the municipalities, is determined by the current Finance Act. The provision of protection tasks related to the coronal virus epidemic requires a contribution from all actors in public finances. The provisions of the transferred part of the motor vehicle tax, other than the Budget Act, are laid down in Article 92/020 of the Hungarian Central Budget for the year 2020 relating to the different emergency rules. It's a government decree. On this basis, according to the relevant provisions of the Finance Act, the tax on motor vehicles collected by local authorities in 2020 on domestic motor vehicles is not applicable to the municipalities, which constitutes the revenue of the Anti-Protective Fund chapter. Honourable Congressman, As regards the individual decisions you mentioned, it is also possible to do so on the basis of the Government Decree 92/020 on the different emergency rules for Hungary's 2020 budget. The government is counting on the municipalities. Hungary is in effective control of the fight against the virus, and we are experiencing the results of this, but the threat is not over yet, we need cooperation. We are counting on the municipalities, and we trust that we will achieve results together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, What happened to you, Hungary? Mr László Varju, Member of the DK Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, You know it's a big problem. I don't think anyone doubts that. Where is György Matolcsy's prediction a few weeks ago that two percent growth is expected? Since then, your former Minister, Ákos Bod Péter, has said that a 4 percent shrink can be expected, and Viktor Orbán also says Prime Minister Viktor Orbán Mihály That there's been a brutal setback. Well, good morning, gentlemen. But in vain, Viktor Orbán abandoned the Hungarians, the Hungarian citizens. The 3 percent deficit was also due to be lost; this is what their recently submitted convergence programme is all about. But the country report also points to mistakes. You want to continue to reduce health and education. The universities were closed, the students were sent home, and now the patients were thrown out of hospitals before the hospital closure. You have already admitted that under your government, the forint will not be strengthened, and the world has been told that they have accepted the downgrading of the Hungarian government's performance below 350 HUF. However, weak forints can only be wanted by a weak government, Mr.Orbán said, because he knows that this is not only his own depreciation, but that it is damaging to all Hungarians, so it is right to think that he has failed as Prime Minister today. Hungary is in a bad state of economic crisis, which is being mistreated by the government. The consequence of this is the record weak forint, rising inflation, hundreds of thousands of unemployment and expected new emigration, the crashed health system, where people were thrown out, and the stormy education system, which was affected. That's why I'm saying it's a big problem. Even though they do tricks with unemployment figures, Hungarians lose their jobs, their livelihoods in the order of hundreds of thousands, and you basically don't help anyone. There is no way to expect them to find their way abroad. In many places foreigners and Hungarians were the first to be sent home. That is why I am asking you what the Hungarian Government is hoping for. That they come home, who are laid off and who work at home, stay home, look for work, or that they will migrate again and again, because you are unable to provide the conditions for an adequate rising standard of living at home? The convergence programme accounts for inflation above 4 per cent, which beats down already low pensions, and as a result, their pension increase of less than 3 per cent will also ruin the future, because there is no pension premium, the pension lie is blown. You know, it was the Gyurcsány government that was able to secure the real 13th month pension. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] He paid for it until the crisis, and ten years wasn't enough for you to make a decent pension increase. So where is the fact that Viktor Orbán's 14th month promise will ever be fulfilled? ! I'm asking you when you're going to introduce it. But I'm telling you, it's a big problem. The government is neither helping entrepreneurs nor helping workers. In spite of the pleading, despite the raging call of attention, instead of three months, you refuse to extend it to six months or nine months. That is why I ask that you fellow Members agree with this. By the way, I'm afraid that they won't follow László Parragh's sentence, who said that otherwise the lazy Hungarians wouldn't rush to find a job if they raised this allowance, if you could even reduce it to a month, in case it doesn't go away. But there's no increase in family benefits, no extra money for home care, no extra pay for doctors, no extra pay for nurses. Even though all the promises were made, there was an increase in the repayment of house loans. But there is money for the sailing ports, for the business of Lőrinc Mészáros and Viktor Orbán. I think it's become clear by now that you can't govern. The glaze melted away from their ten years of rising and thousands of billions of supported activities, and they only have the opportunity for fear-building and generating propaganda. It is time for the opposition to prepare as soon as possible for Hungary's salvation, recovery, the accountability of those responsible and the restoration of the republic after Fidesz. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-05-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He touched on many topics, including health issues and economics. Let me start with the health approach, because we're in the middle of an epidemic. The good news is that the number of new diseases is on a downward trend. I think it's something you'll be happy about, whether you're sitting in opposition benches or not. At the same time, the majority of the diseases remain concentrated in Budapest and its surroundings. That is why there are two types of regulations in force in the counties and in the central region. Over the past week, we have taken important steps towards restarting life, but health professionals urge caution, restrictions can only be eased gradually on the basis of a strict schedule, depending on how the number of diseases develops. I cannot help but recall that in the last few days, during previous plenary sessions, you have been attacking the government's decision on graduation with the same vehemency. I'm bringing this up because it partly affected education. I remember very well how they attacked the government because they decided to keep their graduation. The fact that 97 percent of students took part in it while they had the freedom not to participate, if they decided to do so, proves that they supported this solution, and as important as that, health professionals gave green lights. By the way, the exams will take place until May 21st, but only from a small number of subjects, so the hard part is over, history, literature and math. I would like to thank teachers for their extra work, parents for their patience and perseverance, and students for their preparation under extraordinary circumstances. I am bringing this here, Your Honour, because your graduation case goes beyond you. [[11.30]] It shows well that the left-wing parties in this epidemic have set their policies for denial, for searching for kaka, and for an operational attack by the government, i.e. they have shown that if there is a problem, then they cannot be expected at all. It's an important lesson. As far as economic aspects are concerned, unfortunately, the first quarterly figures show the impact of the epidemic, but this only includes the effects of March, the April and May figures are likely to be much, much worse. Unfortunately, that's what we're counting on. You have made suggestions from a wide range of approaches. I would like to tell you that, in the view of the government, the most important thing now is the protection of jobs. So now we need to keep an eye on how many people turn to the state for help. Now this number is slightly over 160,000. The goal is to keep it as low as possible. This is why the government has decided on tax reductions, which is why it provides support, targeted support for the troubled sectors, and therefore double the public work framework. The military has also started recruiting, and public companies are also assessing how they can recruit new staff to carry out their duties. To say one more important measure, the government has also introduced wage support. In this context, nearly 4,000 employees have already applied and have undertaken to keep 54 thousand jobs. If there were no wage support, the same jobs would be at risk. From the 13th month's pension, all I'm saying is that you've been taken away, and this government is giving it back. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, Well, we are hearing your criticisms, but I think that if a party has elected officials, it should also deal with action. I'm telling you this because you have a common mayor on the left, and he's as busy as you are with the government, he's doing Facebook politics, and he's running away from two things spectacularly. One is action, one is action, the other is responsibility. This is not right, honourable Member, because you should be a maintenance worker. You shouldn't be dealing with the speed limits right now, we'll have time for that. It should provide stronger protection for nursing homes. Unfortunately, the plague is spreading here most of the time, and the reason for that is that the mayor has taken action late and has not prepared the homes for the epidemic. We therefore ask Mr. Mayor to concentrate all his energy on the elderly homes in Budapest, because it is possible to restart life in Budapest if there is a decrease in the number of deaths there. If you need help, if you need support, then the government will give you this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-11-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My respectful question to the pro-government representatives, the secretary of state sitting here, is what they want and what they're waiting for. They have unlimited authority, and they can adapt it in an emergency any way they want. Then tell me why they're spending it on poster campaigns, why they're making a poster campaign instead of protecting people. Why have the state secretary's salaries been increased by 75% in two years? Why not the smallest pensions or the wages of doctors, nurses, paramedics? And most of all, why are you talking nonsense? First they say they won't close the school, then they'll shut it down. The Pests can't go to the country, they can go. They say you don't need a mask, then you need a mask. They say we don't need mass testing, then we need mass, large quantities of testing. All health care needs a test, and then they say they don't need a test for every care. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't believe they're trying to cover up reality with propaganda, but I have some bad news: it's not gonna work. Because as long as you are occupied with the cementing of your own power, the authority granted by the Powers Act, the destruction of democracy, people will die because they have been kicked out of hospitals without testing them, preparing their families, not informing the local governments. People are dying because they weren't protected, medical workers or even residents of the social home, and the defense would be the government's job. They take away the chance of healing from people, because in the last month and a half, about one million Hungarians have not received the necessary basic health care. Because of the actions of the Ministry of Human Resources led by Miklós Kásler, we have reached the point that the cessation of primary care can now be more victims than the coronal virus epidemic. And remember, people didn't get access to care by paying the public costs for it, and the government didn't offer anything for it. And Minister Kasler may view human tragedies as an entertaining story [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] We're not. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz has unlimited authority. Then why don't you use it to protect jobs? Why don't you use it to make sure families don't lose money in times of crisis? Tens of thousands of people who want to work and work are on the street every week. Three times the number of jobs the government supports. According to some surveys, one in five Hungarian people lost income as a result of the crisis. He lost his job every ten times. We know four out of five people don't have any savings. All of this can lead to incredibly difficult situations and human tragedies. I would suggest to my fellow Members that they look into the eyes of the 50-year-old man who has been fired from an automotive supplier, has no job and has no savings or even needs to take care of his elderly parents. What are you gonna do? Propaganda on billboards won't help them. For them, even registration for unemployment benefit is difficult because the system is not prepared for the seizure. The procedural deadlines are very long. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said before: trust is the basis for the successful management of the crisis. Trust is based on open and honest communication. What Fidesz and the government do isn't, it's a lie, it's a twist, it's a silence. Successful crisis management also requires that families do not remain without money, do not lack money for micro- and medium-sized enterprises, and do not leave the municipalities without money. Fidesz said no to protecting people when he voted off our proposals. But we say no to Fidesz. We ask anyone who wants to help our countrymen in distress, who want to get out of the crisis, to support our petition for the protection of people, which includes several demands. We demand that our countrymen who lost their jobs receive at least HUF 100,000 net for at least 9 months. We demand that workers between the ages of 60 and 65 who have lost their jobs can retire, if possible, with early leave. We demand an immediate increase in the family allowance, children, children, maternity allowance, to avoid paying gas, electricity and district heating bills for a period of 3 months until average consumption. We demand an immediate increase of pensions by 6.5 percent, start catching up on pensions below HUF 100,000, and provide immediate assistance during an average pension of HUF 20,000; and in order to protect micro and medium-sized enterprises, 80% of their wages and contributions are assumed. This is the minimum that must be done to protect people for our common future, Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, We all remember that you dealt with the crisis quickly. When you were in a crisis, you quickly took a month's pension from every pensioner, quickly raised your VAT, quickly took a month's wages from every doctor and nurse, quickly took a month's wages from every cop and every public servant. Honourable Congressman, You demanded a pension increase. Look around you. If you can find István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, László Szakács, Gergely Arató, Ference Gyurcsány, László Hajdu, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju and Sándor Burány, ask them why they decided to lose a month's pension. You are here demanding a pension increase, who, as a first step in the crisis, took funds from pensioners, took forints, honourable Member. If it is important for you to be able to pay your bills, why have you raised the fees fifteen times in Hungary during your own administration, honourable Member? Why did they take money from teachers while we increase the wages of teachers by 10 percent from July this year? Why did you take a month's wages from nurses and doctors, while we are raising the wages of nurses by 72 percent over this four-year period? We've already raised it 14 percent this January, and another 20 percent increase is coming up. Honourable Congressman, Why did they take away a month's wages for social workers when we were doing a 14 percent increase in the social sphere this year, in the year of crisis and epidemic? You have raised VAT, honourable Member, while we believe in tax cuts, whether in terms of kata, social security contributions, socho or other taxes, we are releasing them to save jobs. [[11.40]] You've raised excise duty, you've introduced a super grossing, which means that people have even taken away the money they've never seen because their other employers have also taxed public burdens on their wages. You have eliminated housing subsidies and have driven people into foreign exchange loans during the crisis, while we are only expanding the possibilities of CSOK and housing subsidies in Hungary every year. You have taxed the cafetheria to a greater extent, if I only look at the cold meal, you have raised a rate of 54 percent, while we have increased the SZÉP card's budget from 450 thousand forints to 800 thousand forints in the competition sector and from 200 thousand forints to 400 thousand forints in the public sector. So you have trusted only austerity everywhere and have indebted Hungary. On the other hand, we were focused on defense. Honourable Congressman, If you look at the number of ventilators available in Europe and the world, if you project them to 100,000 inhabitants, you will see that Hungary now has values such as those of countries richer than us, and we will also prevent quite a few, because we will prevent, for example, Germany, Austria, Great Britain, Poland, Slovakia, Turkey, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland, Italy, France, Sweden or Belgium in proportion to the number of ventilators per 100 000 inhabitants. If you look at it, fortunately, the mortality rates for infected people in Hungary are much better than in the Netherlands, Italy, England, Belgium or France. If you look at the population-proportionality of mortality figures in Hungary per million inhabitants, you are fortunately more favourable than we are in Estonia, Turkey, Romania, Finland, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Portugal, Canada, Luxembourg, Switzerland, the USA, Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, France, England, Italy, Spain or Belgium; precisely because the government has used its legal powers which you have not supported during the coronal virus epidemic to act quickly and effectively. If your position had triumphed here in Parliament and the government had not been given the opportunity to act quickly, these figures would be more disappointing. But, honourable Member, there is still a place where you can prove yourself, and this is the home of Budapest and the elderly on Pest. But unfortunately, the epidemic is mostly spread in the homes of the elderly in the capital, and the reason for this is that the mayor, although he had unlimited authority, did not use as fast as the government did. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Lately, he took action, did not prepare the metropolitan nursing homes for the epidemic, so perhaps it would be best for the mayor to use all his energy to protect the elderly homes in the capital, because obviously the condition of restarting life is to reduce the number of deaths there. Because, honourable Member, well over half of all institutional deaths are in Budapest and occurred in the nursing home on Pesti Road. Perhaps it would have been more worthwhile to act quickly there. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Where is the strong Hungary at this time? Mr Péter Jakab, Head of the Group of Jobbik, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Orbán recently said that the last ten years of Hungary have been the most successful in the last hundred years. Well, we've heard enough that the economy is soaring here, that Hungary is performing better and getting stronger, which would make you think that if an economic crisis came, it wouldn't immediately lay this country on two shoulders. Compared to this, the Prime Minister surrendered at the beginning of the crisis when he said that employees and employers should fight each other about how we were getting out of this period, even though it was already well known that this match would not be won by anyone without public help, either by the employer or by the employee. We know the results. According to official data, 163 thousand of our compatriots lost their jobs in no time and half a million unofficial data. These people did not receive any substantial assistance from the government, beyond the fact that Prime Minister had rumbled a faint promise that everyone here would receive public service work for 50,000 forints, who did not like it, could go on as soldiers. Colleagues, we're gonna need a little more than that. For example, 80 percent of the labour costs of workers in distress should be taken over, or unemployment benefits should be increased. Instead, what happened? Orbán's right-hand man, the Fidesz President of the Party State Audit Office, László Domokos, has come, who has made it clearer than ever before how this strong state will help citizens in distress. Well, by calling on them to call on troubled families to finally learn how to save money. Now you're gonna learn how to save money. You say that when hundreds of thousands of Hungarians lose their jobs. I'm just asking you quietly, fellow Members, where is that soaring economy? Where is the strong Hungary that protects its citizens, fellow Members? ! 'Cause we're looking at nowhere. In recent years, you have pursued an economic policy that Hungarians are forced to face this crisis with empty pockets. You took away the house savings, you took the cafeteria, you said no to the pay union, you voted against the Hungarians' wage development, and you spent the money with both hands on all kinds of unnecessary visual investment. I believe you, I believe that the last ten years have been a damn success for you, but not for the Hungarians. We have said many times over the years that people need to be given money so that they can prepare for a crisis because they have no savings. We have said that wages should be increased, that taxes should be reduced, that differentiated pension increases should be introduced. You voted against all of our proposals. Now you're telling people to learn how to save money? ! Well, from what, how? Do you want them to take less air? What are you saving up for, fellow Members? Out of the 107,000 minimum wage? Out of 50 grand community service? With a minimum pension of HUF 28 500? Is there any way to convert the family register from this? ! I believe that László Domokos saves money from his 4 million monthly salary, only the average Hungarian worker takes home the exact twenty of this; not even that much during the crisis. So we're gonna turn this into a family register? But all right, let's look at some examples. What should a man who has to choose whether to pay the bill or buy the food? We say that we introduce a moratorium on the payment of accounts so that at least now we don't have to worry about the burden of the rent. What do you say? What should a citizen who loses his job, has no savings, and in three months he will no longer have a job-seeking allowance? We say we increase the amount of the allowance and extend its duration. What do you say besides community service? Or what would a pensioner who doesn't know very well how to manage a pig whose price didn't rise by 2.8 percent, but by 30 percent? We say that in this situation, at least now in an emergency, there should be official pricing so that basic food can be bought at a normal price. That's what we say. And what do you say? What, fellow Members? ! Other than Soros and how everyone should solve their problems the way they can. Colleagues, crisis management does not mean that we write on the posters out of 6 billion that no Hungarians are alone. No, crisis management starts with the government starting saving on its own so that it can help those in trouble. If the Fidesze President of the State Audit Office were not Viktor Orbán's puppet, for example, he would not be in the wallet of Hungarian people, but would draw the government's attention to the fact that it is not certain to spend 1700 billion on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line now that it is not certain that there will be a poster campaign and propaganda from 150 billion forints; it is not certain that we should distribute 2000 billion forints of EU funds among our friends, because this money could even save jobs. Colleagues, don't go digging through the family register. Trust me, you won't find anything there. Take a look in your own wallet, because there are billions of them. The Hungarian people have saved enough, now you are finally coming. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-11-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, We agree on one thing, namely that there is nothing more important than protecting jobs in this situation, and it is an area in which the government has shown much more than a few mere declarations of intent in recent years. When Your Allies [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Interjection: Clown!]] left behind... No matter what, they're in league with them. When your new allies left the government behind, unemployment was 12 percent, which was reduced to less than 4 percent. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: When you signed the best signature collection sheet in Eger...]] Employment has reached decades of records, and this is when the epidemic hit Hungary, not only with health but also with economic consequences. Although this is a new situation, we have no reason to change the fundamental approach, because tax cuts remain the key to job creation. [[11.50]] This is why employers' taxes do not have to be paid in troubled sectors; that is why the government has released the cadaver tax for several months, which will help more than 80,000 businesses; and therefore the employer's contribution will continue to decrease from 1 July. Troubled sectors also receive targeted support, such as tourism in a very difficult situation, plus 600 billion. In order to say further measures, public companies must assess how they can recruit new workers for their existing tasks. And perhaps it is not an issue, either, that you have also dealt with this issue, that the government has suspended the loan payments at the end of the year; this also concerns families, as well as employers and companies. It also protects jobs. Just to show the seriousness and magnitude of the intention, the economic protection fund has 1345 billion forints available, so when you question that, you are simply lying and you are not telling the truth. I have now listed a number of measures, these are concrete measures. With your general criticism, would you please tell us which of these are not supported: do you not support the tax reduction? Or are targeted investment programmes not supported? Or is the suspension of the loan not supported? Be courageous and tell me which one would be tangled with the left, because I see that they are similar to them in spreading aid, not in the programmes from which it will ultimately be a job. And we listen to it week after week in your theatre, and I can also say that you have deliberately spoken aggressively, and we always think about what would happen if this energy was directed to the places where the right-handers otherwise received responsibility. We listen to his references, for example, to workers, to workers. What have they done for them, like, Ozdon? I've looked at the statistics, there's about 10 percent unemployment in the Oz, and they'd have a chance to reduce it, but they can't. Their words are loud, but their actions are mute. Silent! Speaking of Ozd, do they know what the mayor did there? You know, the person who used the swimming pool privately reduced the wages of people in public education and the cultural sector by 25 percent. And anyone who doesn't accept that can take unpaid leave. It only affects hundreds of people in this town. And you often give good advice on who politicians stand before and who to look into your eyes. Well, now we're asking you to go to Oz and look into the eyes of those whose wages would be reduced or taken away. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: If you steal their sources...]] And if it's not just an empty circus that you perform week after week, you'll be brave and you'll do it. Do it. By the way, your party has come a rather strange way in recent years. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right.]] First in style, then in content, later in suggestions, it was completely similar to left-wing parties. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] What you need to know is you need to know that you've come together with those who have increased taxes, laid off and confiscated wages. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about?]] So, to those who have made the Hungarian economy aid-based. By the way, it's your job to decide that if you come together on a political basis, but from this weird alliance, you should know that there won't be one new job. Not a single one! And finally, one more thing. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What was that supposed to mean?]] You just mentioned the Prime Minister. He's done it before. In the community he added to the Prime Minister the sentence that he didn't need a job for a good life, he put it in a quotation mark. The Prime Minister didn't say that anywhere, but you said so, so you lied. He was a one-man fake news producer, a faction leader. It's very unworthy. Would you stop it, please? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interpretings from the same place: Shame! Dr. Pál Völner: That's who you are!]]
u2020-05-11-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr István Hollik, from the KDNP Group, asked to speak before the agenda on graduation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Under extraordinary circumstances, under strict security measures, the written exams of basic subjects were successfully completed last week. The first word about graduation is, of course, thanks. We should thank teachers in particular for their ability to adapt extremely quickly to extraordinary circumstances and for preparing students for graduation through digital education. Thanks to the parents, it was difficult for them, too, that their children were studying at home. But thanks also to the education government, because they responded quickly, they also created special security measures and their graduation rules for this year. As a result, teachers and students both knew exactly what they were doing, and they also knew that they would be safe during their graduation. And last but not least, we can also be proud of graduation students, because they did not jump aside when they faced the first real challenge and challenge of their lives, but also under extraordinary circumstances, we congratulate them. However, it was also the right decision that the government ultimately gave the students the opportunity to make a decision. Students may have decided to wait a year, or they will graduate under safe conditions. They understood the situation. As a result, 97 percent of students, over 84,000 youths, decided to face the challenge and write their graduation. It was clear even before graduation that it was in the interests of Hungarian students. On the one hand, to protect their health and, on the other hand, to be able to graduate this year, not to lose a valuable year. The government has made its decisions in these respects. Unfortunately, however, we can see that the opposition's ambition for the past three weeks has been to keep graduations from being held. Let's liven up for a moment what we've been listening to from the opposition for a long three weeks. Their first false claim was that they forced the students to graduate. That is, of course, not true, as I mentioned earlier, the students could make their own decisions. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the opposition, has constantly attacked government measures, and, of course, he has also tried to drill his chances of successful maturity within this framework. He intimidated me with the death of teachers and students, and he found all means available to prevent graduation. His partner, Agnes Vadai, repeatedly threatened that there would be no mask for graduation; Ágnes Kunhalmi joined. This rumour did not stand the test of reality either, since all necessary protective equipment was available everywhere. However, the most impertinent was the Momentum, which did not pass through the organization of graduation, to start building a database disguised as collecting signatures. It seems to them that party building is more important than the graduation of 90,000 students. Congratulations on that. Otherwise, the Momentums couldn't have gotten a more snappy answer from young people, with almost every young person choosing graduation and wanting to graduate. Perhaps, if the primary aspect of the Momentum had been not the government's attack, but the interests of the young, they would have first asked what they wanted. So if we want to sum up, we can say that, despite the spirit of opposition, 97 percent of teachers and students said yes to common sense and responsible decisions, following the rules, went to the exam disciplinedly and prepared. Teachers, education management and parents have passed their exams, and the students have proved their maturity even without knowing the results of their graduation. But the opposition failed again. There is still room for the re-examination, but all you have to do is put the interests of the Hungarian people first instead of their party political aspects. Good luck with that. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we congratulate everyone, and we wish you good luck with the further tests. Thank you to everyone who participated in the graduation, as a teacher, as a volunteer supervisor or as students who attended the graduation. [[12.00]] In fact, this year, the opportunity was placed in the hands of all students, if they believe that despite the increased security measures, they feel safer not now, but in the autumn, but they are examining, this opportunity was provided by three percent, and 97 percent of them decided to pass the exam next to these security measures. Those who put it down later said that we want to help both the present and the autumn final exams by launching several half-year courses and by other means. This, on the other hand, has shown who is responsible for politics in Hungary, the parties of government, and who is to whom nothing is expensive, these opposition parties were. For a young person, you may recall, fellow Members, it is a very tense time to prepare for graduation. We think that we are really looking at a huge challenge, and when a lot of politicians are trying to put a shovel on it, and even frighten with untruths, or parties are launching different petitions for database building, or trade unions are publishing boycott calls, and other public figures are saying that they are boycotting graduations, it certainly doesn't help students. It helps them to be able to pass their graduation exams under the right safe conditions. However, we can see that opposition parties are acting in the same way as before in the viral situation, and also the viral issues, although we are talking more about the health of all people and about the performance of the economy and the rebooting of life, but they are still looking at them as if they were the simple political issues of the past, and they are trying to bring the individual issues down to this level here as well. But fortunately, the preparation was good, because many people came, 97 percent of them were there, but also in Italy, Austria, Germany, Croatia, Poland, Czech Republic, Denmark and Ireland, the Italy with one of the largest levels of infection, but also in Germany with a low level of infection. In fact, countries with very high levels of contamination are even considering re-launching education, such as Belgium, France or other countries or Switzerland or Germany. Before this decision was made by the government, he consulted a lot of everyone. He's consulted with the best virologic experts. At a video-public science conference, anyone could ask questions, and several experts there said that, with such security measures, there is no virological risk of holding their graduation. But we have consulted the National Teachers' Faculty, the teachers' unions, various interest representatives, obviously there have been various opinions here, with the Education Office, the Klebelsberg Centre. The National Student Council also gave an opinion, 17 of its 19 members voted in favour of the graduation. That's how he was able to do it without any interruptions. Protective equipment was available everywhere, we provided more than 422,000 masks for students, which had to be used when entering and exiting the room, and in the room at their own discretion. For teachers, we also took 147 thousand masks and the same pair of gloves and 20,000 hand sanitizers to schools. The graduation started at nine o'clock, so that students would not meet more people in rush hour traffic in public transport, or, of course, police helped traffic around schools. Instead of teachers with older or chronic diseases, we organised the exam with other colleagues. They don't touch the written exams for one day, 24 hours, precisely to reduce the risk of the virus spreading. According to scientists, the virus no longer infects on paper in one day, but the oral exams failed precisely so that there would not be any additional risk of graduation. Ten, but mostly fewer, were involved in the rooms, thorough disinfection, ventilation and multiple cleaning. On request, we also provided dormitory placements individually, separately, or access to schools, where possible, through several doors, so that students would not even meet at the entrance. Like I said, it's a full-fledged graduation for everyone, and thank you to everyone who's been involved in the safe operation. Graduates also passed their exams. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And it's their decision now, as Congressman said, a sign of maturity. And the opposition also passed the exam, but the first thing that came out was that they were irresponsible in politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that this pandemic has caused not only a health crisis, but also an economic crisis, although the discussions of my opposition fellow Members over the last hour have been made, as if they were somewhat nuanced or not quite clear what they want. It is also certain, and we obviously disagree on this, that Hungary has good prospects for the moment in a number of ways. This is due, on the one hand, to the discipline of people, the conscientious work of health care workers and those in an epidemic situation, and to the fact that the best doctors, researchers, and virologists in the world are working alongside the government and helping them to make decisions. Thirdly, Hungary has a government that wants to protect people and protect the country, and has proved that it has been successful in a crisis situation for ten years. Let us remember that in 2010, when the government spoke about the implementation of the work-based economy, the one million new jobs, you, my fellow left-wing Members, were cynically laughing at this. But these objectives have been met, and the government's objectives for this crisis will also be met, i.e. we will protect jobs, protect people, and we will create as many jobs as the crisis will put an end to it. All of this by developing the economy. Of course, you are still smiling sarcastically, and all you can hear from your speeches is that what the government is doing is not good, and everything is bad at home. We've seen that there's only one recipe that you've ever seen working on, and that could be given out of a lack of knowledge, giving out aids. It doesn't matter what we do, but we're gonna give benefits, 'cause that's the recipe for sure. Perhaps Margaret Thatcher had the most insight into your thinking when she said that the problem with the socialists was that sooner or later they would always run out of other people's money. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] With other people's money, fellow Members. Even now, as in the mid-2000s, you would take out loans, hand out aids, and thus make Hungary vulnerable to speculators. You, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, have already demonstrated once how much you can handle a crisis. There's only one way to deal with this crisis, by framing people. They took away the 13th month's pension, took away the 13th month's wages for civil servants and the support of families. You have always resorted to austerity, resulting in 200,000 people losing their jobs during your administration and doubling, with unemployment rising to 12 percent. I am sorry that Congressman Varju is not here, because he complained that, if I quote correctly, the 3 percent deficit must be said goodbye. However, I would like to draw the attention of DK and Socialist Members to the fact that you have not been able to keep the deficit below 3 per cent once in one year at a time of economic activity. If nothing else, that is why we should be a little more modest in criticising the functioning of the government, honourable Members. After all, you do not have any visions and concepts for the future of this country other than aid and borrowing. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has launched an economic action plan, and obviously a significant part of it is focused on protecting jobs and creating new ones. This is supported by the possibility of wage support, tax reductions, contributions reductions, credit moratorium and zero-percent credit, which would help the liquidity situation of companies. The wage support system, which has already been introduced, seems to be successful, since the number of wage support needs has almost tenfold in the last week, almost 4 000 employers have applied for wage support for nearly 54 thousand employees. Up to HUF 100,000 can be paid to these workers per employee. In fact, if part-time work is reduced to less than 50 per cent, they can get up to 100 thousand forints, if they exceed 50 per cent, they can also get 75,000 forints. [[12.10]] This is also the fact that the government has launched investments, as more than 338 companies, based on the joint programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the National Investment Agency, have indicated to the government that they would start investments worth HUF 168 billion. Obviously, all of these will help us get the economy out of trouble and protect the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. In his speech before the agenda, Mr Schanda Tamás, State Secretary, we will hear the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The crisis caused by the new type of Crown Virus poses a threat to the outcome of our ten-year work, we know that; ten years ago, it was brought back from the brink of bankruptcy by the civil national government and started building a work-based and family-friendly Hungary. Employment has reached an unprecedented level, unemployment has not been as low since the change of regime as it was when the spread of the corona virus began in Europe. Today, the Hungarian economy is in a much better position and is much more secure than before 2008, but that does not mean that there is no task, there is plenty of it: we need to protect Hungarian people. This can only be done together, by working together. That is why we thank you for supporting the government in its action against the Crown Virus. And that is why it is sad that there are opposition factions that do not do this, and they do nothing but want to use this period to attack the government's actions and make political profits. Honourable Congressman, Hungary has taken decisions in good time to protect the health of Hungarian people, because our firm position is that human life is the first, that we must protect the lives of Hungarian people in the first place, that is what the Hungarian people expect us to do. Honourable Congressman, As you have mentioned, it is also quite clear that the coronal virus epidemic has not only health but also economic consequences. This virus and its consequences also have a devastating impact on the labour market, and the livelihood of Hungarian people and Hungarian families is at risk because of the virus. However, there is no reason for us to go in a different direction in dealing with this crisis than before. The directions, the ideas expressed by the civil government in 2010 are still valid and well-functioning models. It remains clear that we need to build a work-based economy and a work-based society. Therefore, the position of the Hungarian government is clear: as many jobs as possible must be protected, and as much as the virus destroys, must be created. Honourable Congressman, As you have said, there are about 163 064 people who have turned to the government for help, such as unemployment benefits or income support because they have no job. Our task and aim is to provide them with job opportunities as soon as possible, and if this does not work in the corporate market sector, we will do so with the help of the state. This is why the economic protection action plan focuses primarily on protecting jobs and creating new jobs. We provide wage subsidies, we reduce taxes, we offer zero percent credit to businesses, and we suspend the obligation to repay their loans. Honourable Congressman, According to Friday's data, 3953 employers have applied for government wage support for nearly 54 thousand employees, and this really means that the number of applications has almost tenfolded in a week. But more importantly, this is a good indication that both workers and companies consider the national wage support system a suitable tool to address their temporary problems caused by the crisis. The examination of applications is ongoing. We have set a very fast deadline for government agencies: within eight days, it is necessary to decide on the claims, precisely in order to provide workers with money as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP; Mr Erik Fülöp, independent; Mr Brenner Koloman of Jobbik; Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát of the Jobbik Group; Mr Péter Ungár of the LMP Group; Mr Ander Balázs of the Jobbik Group; Representative Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi of the Jobbik Group; Mr István Simicskó of the KDNP Group; Mr Péter Ágh of the Fidesz Group; László Hajdu of the DK Group and Zoltán Varga, also from the DK Group. Dear Parliament, Now it's 12:16, and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Mr. Péter Jakab, representative of the Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, Mr. Group Leader, whether you will accept the person of the responding party or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-05-11-29	I'm waiting. I'm waiting.
u2020-05-11-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for an answer in person.
u2020-05-11-31	Thank you. I'd rather wait for the Minister.
u2020-05-11-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm and Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question. It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. Since this immediate question will therefore be said by Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for the answer personally.
u2020-05-11-33	We'll wait for Madam Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Congressman Steinmetz has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow citizens, all persons whose personal numbers begin with either 1 or 2. You've seen the picture on the Internet that says, "What if the hospital staff got two million a month, and we applauded the football players every night?" [[12.20]] This meme suggests that today people in Hungary are cheering not for professional footballers, but for the marcal nurses, the Balatonlelle rescuers and all those who make 150 to 200 thousand forints a month with their sacrifice. What, though, is the reason why a sports - loving nation is getting more and more critical in public - money stadiums for astronomical prizes? I don't think envy, because quality, as we know, has to be paid. So it's because they have knife-opening rules? For example, thanks to Fidesz, they can tax up to HUF 500 million a year at a reduced rate, resulting in the loss of tax revenues of millions of HUF? But why? I'm asking you. How many masks can you buy with this money for the Hungarian people? I would also like to ask the Minister with respect: do you not think that this practice is unacceptable when tens of thousands of Hungarians are destroyed and expect help from the state? Do you support the reduction of the ceiling for Ekhos reduced taxation from HUF 500 million to HUF 250 million? Yes or no? We're waiting for an answer.
u2020-05-11-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Undoubtedly, the epidemic, the extraordinary situation, requires sacrifice from all of us, and it can put us all in a very difficult situation. That is why, honourable Member, I do not consider it fortunate that you are trying to confront different social groups in this situation. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what we're talking about here. You've been targeting athletes, sportsmen, and now you're trying to get some popularity on their behalf. Honourable Congressman, Moreover, you have already asked the Prime Minister this question once, on 27 April, and Prime Minister has made a strong statement, which is also the government's position. So, yes, we think that everyone needs help, but it is not possible to make health care safety dependent on tax incentives, it is perfectly clear and logical; it is not possible to make it dependent on the performance of one or another year's marketing year, how much support we give hospitals, how much wages healthcare workers receive, what means of doing things, machines, purchases, supply them. From this point of view, Mr President, I think that your question is moving in the wrong direction, not against each other, to give preferences to different sectors at the expense of each other, but to finance the important areas that we have an elemental interest in operational security. On the other hand, honourable Member, you forget about the sports economy, you only see professional athletes, although there are a lot of second-, third-class, county I, county II or BLSZ, Budapest championship athletes in this respect. Now they too have no job and no livelihood, and they also need these help. So I think you, as a former Olympic champion, could rightly support athletes and expect the government to maintain this advantage in this difficult situation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-38	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-39	[[No sound.]] Dear Minister, I appreciate your work, but you didn't answer my question. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: We can't hear it! Intercom from the opposition: No voice! Dr. Adam Steinmetz puts his microphone on.]] You have responded to a previous suggestion, and this previous proposal has nothing to do with what I have just said and suggested. Let's get this straight, Minister. The current legislation provides favourable taxation up to HUF 40 million a month. But is there really a player in Hungary who makes so much money and also pays less tax in proportion than anyone else? What does Fidesz say? It does not succeed in a sport by pouring money into it without thinking, because it only increases the number of foreigners, not ratings and standards. Dear Minister, The support of the parties was halved in view of the crisis. You did the right thing. After that, do you also support the halving of the cap on preferential taxation from HUF 500 million to HUF 250 million per year? Be kind to answer that question. Yes or no? Thank you.
u2020-05-11-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think that I have made it very clear to answer your question: when there is an epidemic, there is an emergency, the aim is not to withdraw various subsidies from any sector. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] And here there is a distinction to be made, honourable Member, between political parties and individuals. As a private person, no one's livelihood can be compromised. On the other hand, you are absolutely right that political parties have the flexibility to contribute to the expenditure generated by the epidemic situation in this situation. And if, honourable Member, you very strongly insist on this suggestion, I suggest that you submit it to Parliament. In this respect, it is clear that Members of Parliament will examine and discuss whether your proposal is legitimate and timely. I don't see the actuality of this right now. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-42	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and MEP Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å How many people have to die? It's an address. Mr. Minister's absence to respond... [[Defiance. Péter Ungár: We're used to it! We're used to it.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Minister. He was just covered, and for that, I apologize, I didn't notice. Therefore, Mr Lajos Korózs will ask this question accordingly. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-43	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Minister, It has now been 20 days since the party president and group leader of the MSZP asked the leaders of hospitals questions. My colleague Bertalan Tóth asked very simple questions. For example, how many active beds are in your institution; how many patients were sent home as a result of the ministerial measure; have you tested them before they were sent home; have the municipalities been informed; and how many planned surgeries have been delayed? I think these questions are very simple, but we have not yet been answered, and I stress that 20 days have passed. Then there is the weekend, there are more and more scandals in Hungarian public life. Therefore, I ask Minister, what is the reason why, from one moment to the next, 4,000 samples of investigation are disappearing from the Website of the Centre for Public Health. What is the reason, and how could it have happened that 2855 influenza suspects were first shown in the 12th week of the year, and then reduced to 70 cases the next day? How could it happen, Minister, that from 1248 data per week before that, there would be 165 data from one moment to the next? That's why I'm asking, Minister, who's falsifying the data. Who's falsifying these data? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary, I give you the floor for your answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-45	Mr President, Dear House, I am honored, Congressman, that you have asked specific questions. I'll give you a specific answer. In Hungarian health care there are 66,000 active beds. The 66,000 active beds are financed by the State Health Care Centre and the funding organization NEAK.The active beds have been adapted at an appropriate pace, based on professional arguments, to treat the infection. Given that the curve of the epidemic has been extremely positive in Hungary, we plan to restore complete health care at four paces. It started on May 4th. It was not launched on May 4th, but on May 4th. [[12.30]] How many patients went home? On March 14, 34% of hospital beds were empty, and on March 30, 58,000 were empty. The Minister's instruction was to set up 60,000 beds, and hospitals had more than one month from 6 March to 7 April. After all, we set the desired number at 50,000 in the worst case scenario. The patient's traffic, admission, dismissal took place in accordance with normal order, and everyone involved received the notification. The performance of the institutions decreased significantly, by about 50 percent. I'll keep going. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-46	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Borbély for a one-minute rejoinder, and she continues. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. In his reply, he gave one percentage of the data, and the other said that 58,000 beds were empty. One guy said a percentage, the other guy said a number. Mr. Secretary. What I'd like to ask you is, when the beds were set free, on Friday the hospitals were given the order, your decree, and four working days were available to free up 60% of the hospital beds, so why do we need four beats to restore normal operation? The four beats you're saying are going to restore normal operation at four paces, how many working days is it going to take? How many patients in Hungary have to die because they don't get the treatment? And, Minister, do you have any record of how many people have died as a result since the hospital dismissed the patients? How many people in Hungary today are sick [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] as the mother said last week, who died, who died by failing to receive proper care in Hungary? Can you give us any professional answers? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-05-11-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-49	In the official database, the congressman finds the number of flu and all the other diseases. All I can say is that during the period of the year, mortality in Hungary is lower than it has been for many years. On the question of Congresswoman, why do we need four paces: because no one guarantees when the curve of the epidemic will rise again, it is therefore necessary to maintain maximum alert. I can't tell you how many patients died. I haven't received a single signal. But what I can tell you is that no patient has died, thank God, at the National Rehabilitation Institute, but more than 40 of the elderly on Pest Road have been transported there. These are specific answers, please accept and do not misinterpret my words. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-50	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Why is the Orbán government not helping hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-11-51	Thank you very much. Dear House, We are in a position to see for months now, since the outbreak of the virus, that the Orbán government is not providing adequate assistance to all those who lose their jobs. Let's just say we can't even assess the number of people who have stayed out of work without a job without a job, but who have lived on a casual job, and you don't care about their livelihoods at all. It is clear that, according to the government's own declaration, the number of posts has decreased significantly, we have just heard from the Secretary of State today that this will continue to decline and that the April-May data will continue to deteriorate; according to which the loss of 4,000 jobs or jobs per day will continue. So not only is there no job opportunity, but there is also a reduction in the number of jobs, and access to these data has now been removed. The government doesn't have official statistics today to see reality. The government's procrastination tactics to reduce the emergency didn't work, leaving the workers on their own. Drowning employers and workers need a lifeline, wage support, and I am thinking not only of Fidesz companies, but of all those who need to save their lives, because they have lived up to their reserves. The unemployment benefit is still 90 days, and this should be increased. However, it is impossible to arrange the process of applying for an allowance online: even though a person obtains all the documents, the system itself is too bureaucratic, if one cannot provide all the documents, it must also appear in person; I would add here to increase the risk of the virus. I ask the Minister why the government doesn't help people who lose their jobs. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-05-11-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, Mr President, the title of this issue is already on the line, but perhaps it is a bigger problem that he feels that the epidemic threat is over. Well, honourable Member, I would like to inform you that neither the epidemic nor the emergency caused by the epidemic is over, so perhaps you will leave people in charge of how they will judge the steps taken by the government to tackle unemployment and help those who lose their jobs. Secondly, honourable Member, I am very sorry that you sat here in Parliament and listened to Mr Secretary of State about the labour situation, but he did not understand, because then he could have understood that the measures that the government had taken were very effective and useful, because a leap in the number of people who had checked in shows that they were very well targeted and appropriate steps to help people who were left behind. The government provides wage subsidies for three months, which is 70% of the proportion of wages due to the loss of working time. In order to maintain R &amp; D capacities, we provide special support for the 40% wage support of employees and engineers in this job. If you have listened well, Mr President, you have heard that we are also helping everyone to keep their jobs and help businesses to restore employment as quickly as possible. You were talking about small business. Congressman, one of our first measures was precisely that we reduced the rate of small company tax from 12 percent to 11 percent. This will provide concrete assistance for 50,000 businesses. I therefore feel, honourable Member, that you are not following the government's actions sufficiently. I suggest that you study not only the Hungarian Gazette, but also the news, with due regard, because then such questions will not be subject to any conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-54	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-55	Thank you very much. The Minister regrets that I am sitting here in Parliament, but he has to put up with it somehow. [[Mihály Varga: We agree on that!]] As well as the fact that, yes, as opposed to the 50,000 entrepreneurs you've just mentioned, there are actually 600,000 businesses with problems, and you're ignoring that. Minister, you are not arguing with me, you are arguing with economic researchers who say that the confidence index in all sectors has fallen dramatically, especially in business services. Public pessimism is most likely to occur in relation to expected unemployment, and, by the way, if this may even change with regard to government propaganda, you will still have to face reality. We are now in the process of waiting for four to five weeks, sometimes two months, to make an appointment for Hungarian citizens to use labour services, and they are not included in your statistics. There are hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs, and they must be helped, Minister, that is what I call your attention to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-05-11-56	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, I am truly sorry that you are sitting here, but I respect the decision of those voting for you, so I accept that in that sense. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] But it may be more important for us to play with the idea of what would have happened if this whole epidemic had happened in 2008 when you were in the government. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] [[12.40]] Do you know how much unemployment was then? Eight percent. And do you know how much that was? 3.4 percent. Sky and earth are the difference between the situation at that time and the current situation, and put your hands together that there is a Fidesz-KDNP government [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Nacsa Lőrinc: And vote for us!]] which has put the economy in a position where we have been well prepared for this crisis. So, honourable Member, trust that our next decisions will also serve the goal that is one of the most important economic policy objectives of this government, so that all Hungarians who are looking for a job and looking for a job can be given a job. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-11-58	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, Congresswoman, whether you accept the person of the response or wait for the Prime Minister to be present.
u2020-05-11-59	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-05-11-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Who are invisible to the government? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2020-05-11-61	I'll wait for the Minister, if I may. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-62	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Minister will have to answer your question at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: without social workers, there is no such thing as a social care system. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. [[Hohn Krisztina nodds.]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. With all due respect, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Because of the epidemic threat and the epidemic situation, health workers show an exemplary attitude, and therefore the government has decided to give them a one-time, HUF 500 000 plus-wage supplement at some point in the middle of the summer. I would like to ask you how the government is thinking about doing the same to social workers. In home care, elderly care, of course, in the elderly's home, as well as in the homeless and in all other areas, it now requires even more strained work and risking their lives, in fact, this epidemic. I think that social workers, the wage increase and the wage setting of social workers, have long been waiting for you. It is long overdue for them to receive a wage increase of at least 30 percent, and it is our explicit question and our request that the government give them at least one such one-time allowance. We do this especially because, if we look at tens of thousands of people who are cared for every day, without them, the municipalities would not be able to fulfil their task of helping these elderly caregivers, and the elderly's home could not function without them. So I'm asking how the government is thinking about giving these social workers a one-time pay supplement. Thank you.
u2020-05-11-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, as you have said, who we must pay even more attention to now are not only workers in the health care sector but also in the social sphere, because we can see that all over the world, the larger the social institutions like this are, the more they can become focal points for the spread of the epidemic. Luckily, the epidemic in Hungary has emerged in these social institutions, but so far it has become a mass in no more such institutions, not more institutions have become a focal point, only the home of the elderly on Pest. It is well-known that Budapest maintains only 7 percent of all elderly home capacity, so there is 7 percent of all caregivers and caregivers there, but the percentage of the deceased in the capital institutions is above 70 percent compared to all institutional deceased. Therefore, we have to pay more attention, so the government has not only been carrying 3.5 million masks, 1 million pairs of gloves, 7560 other sanitary equipment, and 2890 litres of disinfectants, and we try to replace them from the central framework on a weekly basis. The question of the congresswoman also focused on material things. Maybe you didn't miss the fact that this year the government decided on a non-one-time measure, but a continuous wage-raising measure every month. We raised the wages of employees in the sector by 14 percent with a combined sectoral bonus. This means an average gross increase of approximately HUF 30,000 to 84 thousand employees, and this was not the first such measure, as we introduced a sectoral wage supplement in 2014, which provided a surplus of HUF 12 billion to 90,000 employees overall. From 2015 there was a sectoral wage supplement, which was HUF 7.6 billion in that year, and then in the following years it meant a total surplus of HUF 16 billion for employees in 66 000 jobs, followed by a combined increase in the supplement, so there was a steady increase in wages either differentiated or for all, and if you add them up, you can see that if you look at the average social wage in 2010 and look at the average wage after the increase, you can see that the average wage is now 115 percent higher, not 115 percent, but 115 percent, more than twice higher. We will strive to continue this trend and to carry out further increases, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But if you look at it, from the mid-2010s, there has been a noticeable increase in wages for several years. Although, obviously, we all know... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] There's plenty more to lift.
u2020-05-11-66	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but you've gone so far beyond the time frame that you'll have to tell me what's left of it in the next minute. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Two seconds.]] Now it's Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina's turn. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-11-67	Thank you very much for the floor. I waited for the long answer to hear you say yes or no. 'Cause I actually understand that they're bringing in a lot of protective equipment, and that there's been a wage increase for years, and a minimum wage increase, and a guaranteed minimum wage, but what I'd like to ask you is whether social workers deserve to raise their wages or not. Do they deserve a one-off HUF 500,000 or not? Yes or no? I think that's a much shorter answer, and maybe even the Speaker won't take away the voice if he just says yes or no to me. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary, after you've reached out to me and in one minute, you have the floor. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes or no? Defiance.]]
u2020-05-11-69	I'm sorry about this conversation, really. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have tried to recognise the work of social workers in many ways, even by declaring the day of social work a public holiday, although this was not supported by opposition parties at the time; and, as I said, this measure will provide social workers with an average gross surplus of HUF 30 thousand per month. Believe me, honourable Member, we will also try to plan for the coming years so that we can increase their salary as much as possible for social workers, not just on one occasion, but every month, to feel this, to be predictable and safe. This is what we have done in previous years, and this is what we will do in the coming years, so that they can see their salary increase year after year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-11-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Head of the Szabó Timea Group and Congressman Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has given him the right to reply. Honourable Congressman, Since Congressman Bence Tordai will be asking the question, I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding or to wait for the Prime Minister's personal presence to be answered.
u2020-05-11-71	We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-05-11-72	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. [[12.50]] Also Szabó Timea, Head of Group and Congressman Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, asked the following immediate question, only to the Minister of Human Resources:. What is going on here? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-11-73	We'll wait for the minister. Thank you.
u2020-05-11-74	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and my fellow Members that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-75	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, It is becoming increasingly clear that the Orbán government is unable to deal with the economic crisis. It is clear that you in the Ministry of Finance have measured the depth of the economic crisis. The Hungarian rescue package is tiny, I am not saying it, but among other things the experts of the Bank of America. Unless, of course, we count on Matolcsy's many thousands of billionaires to say so, but maybe even you don't take this seriously. They talked about 18% of the size of the GDP-related rescue package, nothing to do with reality. What is 18 percent is the proportion of Hungarian workers who have suffered a significant loss of income due to restrictions, according to Tarki's recent research. Among the 40-59-year-olds, this is 26 percent, 23 percent in the South Great Plain, 22 percent in Central Hungary, 21 percent in Central Transdanubia. So more than a fifth of people have lost most or all of their income in these areas. Compared to this, you still say that the unemployment rate will not rise. Viktor Orbán, you said that everyone will get their jobs back, or another will expect a 3.5 percent rate. The convergence programme predicts a 5.6 percent unemployment rate by this year, the EU expects 7 percent, economic researchers in Hungary or, for example, László Parragh, your great friend Viktor Orbán's advisor, to account for 10 percent or above unemployment. In the meantime, the general government deficit is 2.7 percent, according to you, the convergence programme, which has been submitted recently, is 3.8 percent. My first question would be who wrote the convergence programme, if not you, you are arguing with yourself. The second question is: will the government finally extend the unemployment benefit? Half a million people are in need of it until Viktor Orbán gives them a fresh new job. My third question: Will the 3 million people whose income is now below 100,000 forints guarantee the basic income of crisis management, as the Dialogue suggests? Number four, will you double the salaries of healthcare workers? And the fifth, will you finally involve the fidesz oligarchs in public cargo, or will you introduce the Ripper tax? I look forward to your answers.
u2020-05-11-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let's get something straight. The crisis, the emergence of an emergency, is due to take place in March. In fact, economic data also show that the second half of March and April are where the impact of this crisis can be felt for the first time. So if the Member assumes that job-seeking benefits are three months for everyone who might lose their job, then we can conclude that no one will be left without income. This is not about what you said about losing your job, and starting tomorrow, you have no income, and this is not about it, honourable Member. The other is the size of this package. We've told you several times, here in Parliament, you've heard it several times, but in the press we've also told you what items it's made up of. In this respect, although I have many debates with the experts of the European Commission, I believe them more than you do. They said that it was 18-20 percent of Hungarian GDP. If they say that, then let us accept that, honourable Member. Of course, you could say that you need more, 25 percent, 30 percent or more, and you could say that this is too much, and it would be better to reserve it for the post-crisis situation, and perhaps to spend less of this money on it. The government has made a decision here, and it is clear that, starting from the credit moratorium to the various labour subsidies, we consider this order of magnitude to be capable of effectively dealing with the impact of the crisis. Finally, here's a sentence for basic income. It's an old argument. You're saying that we should give so-called helicopter money to society, spend the money, no matter how many people work, some people don't, now everyone gets some support. We don't see that time coming. We continue to think that basically everyone in Hungary has to take care of himself and his family from work. To do this, we want to provide jobs for everyone. Thank you.
u2020-05-11-78	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-79	Dear Minister, Instead of the five answers, two parties answered. It would then deny or distance itself from the convergence programme. As far as I know, it was developed in your ministry. I don't understand why the numbers you say with your mouth one day don't add up to the Union in writing the next day, but that's your problem. The second is that most people are not entitled to unemployment benefits. So even those who claim to have lost their jobs, more than half do not receive any cash benefits, and there are hundreds of thousands of people who do not register because they know that they do not have the right to do so, so there are at least half a million people who have lost their job or their livelihood. Basic income and helicopter money. If you had been informed, we submitted it as a bill: crisis management basic income is not helicopter money. Chopper money would give everyone the same amount of money. We're not suggesting helicopter money, we're suggesting a replacement up to 100,000 forints. This is the minimum amount that everyone must guarantee in the crisis. They don't seem to be able to do that, they're not fit.
u2020-05-11-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-81	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You may have missed the fact that the convergence programme had to be submitted to the government not in March, but by the end of April. So in order for the government to send the European Commission an informed material, obviously we had to wait for the data at the end of April, then it was possible to properly and thoroughly assess the impact of the epidemic, the emergency on the Hungarian economy. From this point of view, therefore, all the numbers of the convergence programme live and stand still. We think that at the end of April the situation that was in the Hungarian economy should reflect this programme. As far as the question or the question of providing or raising any kind of care is concerned, I can continue to say that those who log in to the supply system have the opportunity to provide some assistance in the Hungarian economy. Anyone who doesn't check in, and you're talking about it, we can't help you, Congressman. I'm sorry, but the citizen has to take at least one step to tell me that I'm in trouble, I need help. Then the Hungarian Government, as the Prime Minister said, will provide assistance. [[Bence of Turdai: He doesn't want it! What you're saying is not true! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How much responsibility is it that institutional authorities have in the process of protecting themselves from the coronal virus? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman tells me that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We've been through months trying to make a man. It is good to see that the number of new infected people is falling and the restrictive measures in the countryside have been reduced. Still today, however, the country is watching events and their afterlife in the Pesti Road nursing home as heartbreaking news. Unfortunately, the nursing home has become an epidemiology center. The mayor didn't prepare the metropolitan nursing homes for the epidemic. Another example of this is that 40 caregivers and 9 caregivers were found positive in the Budapest Chamber Forest home. Two of them died here. Due to the series of omissions and irregularities, the epidemic broke loose in the Pest Road Home, where 42 of our senior countrymen have already lost their lives and the number of confirmed infected has already increased to over 300. All of this could have been avoided if the Metropolitan Government, led by Gergely Christmas, had done everything according to the laws and the basic purity requirements. Gergely Christmas told the People's Welfare Committee that there was continuous medical care in the home. On the other hand, an examination shows that there were at least ten days when there was no personal medical presence in the nursing home. [[13.00]] Dear Secretary of State, Unacceptable, but unfortunately it is a fact and it is true that 93 people have died in nursing homes all over the country, 64 of them in capitalized homes. 64 out of 93! It is also a fact that while 1 percent of caregivers of non-capitalized homes are not infected, one in ten residents of the capital institutions have been confirmed to be infected. It is also sad that one in six of the deceased in the country lived in a home reserved for the capital. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you how much responsibility you have in the process of protecting institutional authorities from the coronal virus. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The overwhelming majority of nursing homes are not state-owned, but operate in the maintenance of municipal, ecclesiastical or non-governmental organisations or some kind of economic company. Nevertheless, the State will endeavour to ensure everywhere that where the maintenance does not ensure compliance with the appropriate rules or adequate protective equipment, the State will make up for it. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] With regard to the home of the elderly on the road to Pesti, honourable Member, you have also mentioned that, if you look at the numbers on Sunday, a total of 98 of our countrymen died as elderly residents as a result of a coronal virus. Of these 98 unfortunate dead, 42 came from a nursing home on Pesti Road. 305 were infected in total, and, as the congresswoman pointed out, 57 percent of confirmed elderly home infections occurred in a capitalized home, and 74 percent of the deceased, i.e. 74 percent of all elderly homes, came from metropolitan institutions. So this is simply a mathematical question, because we can see that while the capital provides 7, or 7 percent of those who are cared for, 74 percent of those who have died come from these institutions. So there was something very wrong done by the maintenance staff here, because in other settlements, we cannot talk about such numbers, but here it is apparent that there is a very high number of people who have died in the coronal virus. Meanwhile, Mayor Gergely Christmas does not set foot in this institution, he believes that posting on Facebook, placing on Facebook various content documents with controversial content, can solve this problem, and not if the City Council takes action in time, quickly and effectively. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-86	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your answer, and I accept it, but I cannot accept the attitude that the Metropolitan Municipality, led by Gergely Christmas, is prepared or not prepared to receive the epidemic, and has been treating the epidemiological situation, especially in nursing homes, to this day. We are interested in ensuring that protection can be successful everywhere, including in Budapest, so we need action instead of pointing at each other, posting, writing Facebook entries, taking immediate action and solving all segments of the epidemiological situation. Which means we need to work together. Therefore, from here and now, I call on the mayor to do everything in his power to protect elderly people in the elderly homes in the capital, and not only those who are well cared for, but also caregivers and nursing staff. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The central budget gives the Municipality of Budapest HUF 6 billion this year to provide for older people, parents, grandparents and people who are in these institutions under the right conditions. Six billion forints! The government office found so many shortcomings in this institution that it imposed a million forints of fines. Although Gergely Christmas said at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee that there was a continuous medical presence, it turned out that until 12 April she was not an institutional doctor provided 40 hours a week. It also turned out that when the authority came to the institution 15 times between 12 and 27 April, 10 times of these 15 times they did not see a doctor. In one of the largest caregivers in Budapest, or all over the country, there is no doctor, while there is a coronal virus epidemic, and full life, school education and everything else takes place in a completely different state. Obviously, these people are at increased risk, which is why there would have been an increased need to provide at least one doctor on a permanent basis who is trying to prevent the spread of the virus in these circumstances. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-90	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "The day after and the day before." Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-05-11-91	Thank you, I accept.
u2020-05-11-92	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The immediate question is rather a statement, since it is about 10 May and 12 May. May 10th was the day of the rescue workers, the day of the ambulance, and May 12th is the day of the international nurses. I would like to thank you, from here, Parliament, from the walls of Parliament, for your sacrifice and everyday work. I would also like to thank the civilians who helped them, because there is a huge civil cooperation at both local and national levels, helping them with food and other equipment. Hungary was also not avoided by the human epidemic that surrounded the world. In terms of data in Hungary, we can say that we are still relatively lucky, but if we look behind the numbers, unfortunately, this is not what we see anymore, as the mortality rate projected for one million is very high in Hungary. New procedures have been introduced by healthcare providers both at the National Rescue Service and in hospitals to ensure that patients, optional infected, are screened as high as possible. In the first round, the National Rescue Service staff were equipped with protective equipment. I would also ask Mr Secretary of State to always provide the highest level of equipment for colleagues. Unfortunately, however, we also have to experience a high level of infection of health workers. My question, Mr. Secretary, is this, because we have seen that a number of epidemic hospitals have been designated in the country: if the virus is in a dwindling or a virus-free period, will it restore the function of these hospitals? Or, if we look at the statement that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán or several experts have said that this epidemic could return by September, do we maintain the epidemic function of these hospitals, or are they thinking about something else? Thank you. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-11-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We all need to thank you more, I think, during this period, for the work of those who work in the emergency services, thank you for your voluntary work, Member, and also for the work of another fellow Member, who has volunteered as a doctor on the pro-government side. Thank you, everyone, who works as a nurse, and now pays close attention to the fact that the infection can spread as little as possible from one person to another, and who is sick, will be cured as quickly as possible, facing a disease that is invisible, unknown, and will increase our knowledge of it from day to day. Thank you so much for their work. The Prime Minister also thanked the ambulance yesterday for his work, and we also handed over 20 new ambulances with state-of-the-art equipment. However, I would like to contradict your statements, honourable Member, that we would be the worst in Hungary in the number of people who have died, because, therefore, we are preventing countries that are much richer than us, such as the Netherlands, Italy, England, Belgium or France, in relation to the number of people who have been infected and who have died. These are far more affluent countries, but they have a much worse rate for infected and deceased people, and even more talkative when it comes to the number of patients who have died per million inhabitants, as we are in about one third of the EU, and we are overtaking countries like Estonia, Turkey, Romania, Finland, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Portugal, Canada, Luxembourg, Switzerland, USA, Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, France, England, Italy, Spain or Belgium. [[13.10]] Thank God that the ratio of the coronal virus death rate to one million inhabitants in Hungary is much better than those in these countries. In the next period we must prepare... First of all, I'm sorry, I'd like to respond to the infection of medical personnel. This, thank God, is well below the world's average, so we have also managed to better protect them, as well as health workers. For the future: the world is clearly changing and some kind of epidemiological alert [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Seems to be maintained continuously in the healthcare system as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-96	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Rig Lajos in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have to agree with Mr Secretary of State that we have to live with this virus, so we have to transform our lives, but I didn't get the answer to the question to hospitals. I would like to give you an idea, since it is much easier to build mobile epidemic hospitals such as Kiskunhalas, which I have watched in videos and pictures, and I must say, as an opposition representative, that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament is the first one. There is professional equipment for both beds and machines. It's much simpler, more hygienic and more sustainable than, say, an old hospital with protruding pipes... saying that we can make 90 intensive beds, and much more like XXI. 100th century, as say, at the pre-screen station of a hospital and here it is not violated by soldiers, in a 63M model military tent we are trying to measure a body temperature of 36,5 degrees in spring 40 degrees, which is impossible, because I asked the nurses, in a 45-degree tent, it is rare to have a temperature of 35 degrees. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and usually the digital thermometer measures higher. This is what I ask of the Secretary of State that we try to do later in the 21st century. Going around the century and pushing mobile hospitals. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-11-98	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-05-11-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for your words of appreciation. As has already been said here today, from 4 May we will gradually restart health care, and life will gradually restart in Hungary. At its first step, we are still in the process of re-launching health care, since we are far from at the end of the epidemic. For the time being, therefore, GP benefits are gradually re-launched under strict rules, and we are at the start of outpatient care, diagnostic, dental care, rehabilitation and transplantation procedures, day-to-day surgery and private care. But there are still more steps ahead of us to open up new parts of health care over and over again, including in those hospitals that you have mentioned, in newer and further steps, gradually, subject to strict rules, more and more previous public health services will be available again. At the same time, as I mentioned, obviously life will change after the epidemic, not the same as before the epidemic. So we do see that an epidemiological alert is needed here in Europe. We see Sweden, where it was thought that there would never be an epidemic, that they had no equipment for it, so they moved on a forced course, no restrictive measures were introduced, and we see the results of this, which even surprised them and shocked the world's public opinion. Therefore, Hungary will continue to need an epidemiological alert in the long term. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-100	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:, How does Hungary react to further unfair attacks? Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Levente Hungarian Secretary of State was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[István Hollik: I accept.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We have been used to it since 2010, as we hear nothing else from Balliberal politicians, journalists, opinion-makers, only what kind of regime is being built in Hungary. We've just been a dictatorship, a more sophisticated authoritarian system, history lovers with nostalgia, now the hybrid regime is called fashion. And we also see that these liberal opinionaries do not interfere with their discernment, so they also completely banish the facts and are satisfied with the chanting of dictatorship. We have seen this earlier in the Sargentini report when a media law has been criticised in the Sargentini report, on which the European Commission has already put the seal and said that it complies with European standards. But here, in the epidemiological situation, we have also seen CNN say without a problem that the government has terminated the meeting of the Parliament in Hungary, while we are still here. But the line was not finished, because now the foreign ministers of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden decided to step on the Hungarian people with their feet full. Several of them said about the state of the rule of law in Hungary, repeating, of course, the untruths that have already been said. It is clear that, in this situation, we can only speak of a planned, Balliberal political attack, one that has been accompanied by the national government's actions since the announcement of an emergency and the adoption of the Crown Virus Act. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how we can act effectively against such open political attacks and against such a form of false publicity. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Hungarian Levente, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-103	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He raised an important question, which is being sewn up in these very hours at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The five ambassadors will be invited to coffee this afternoon, and we will tell them that such outbursts and unfounded accusations against Hungary continue to be considered unacceptable, as has been the case so far. The Foreign Minister of the five countries did not stop to join the line that was once opened in the middle of March by our friends from institutions and governments in many countries of Western Europe. We can remember, and by the way, their letter is based on this, that perhaps on March 26, the Secretary-General of the European Council sent a letter to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asking the Prime Minister to take account of some of the provisions of the Coronary Virus Protection Act. Then the secretary-general got a snap answer saying that if she had nothing better to do than to deal with us, and once she couldn't help us, she would rather leave us alone. A similar response is being made to the Foreign Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who, by the way, may be beyond everyone else in hypocrisy, because if we look at how these countries, these five countries are in the defence against the Crown Virus, we can certainly see that they are not very well, and certainly not compared to Hungary. In Sweden, the number of unfortunate deaths is well over 3,000, and let us not forget that Sweden's population is roughly the same as Hungary's, so it is possible to compare these numbers, but also in Denmark, which is a country of 5.8 million, is well over half a thousand dead, while in Hungary, I have just looked at it, the latest figure is 421 tragic deaths. So we can say, and then I could mention the other small countries, except Iceland, which is obviously protected by its geographical situation, that none of them were able to prevent Crown Virus deaths to the same extent as Hungary. We expect more respect from these countries as well, and we stand against everyone in order to protect the dignity and interests of Hungarians in the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. The liberal political attacks were exposed by a liberal Dutch Member the other day when he said that he was not really interested in the fact that the Vice-President of the European Commission considers the measures in Hungary legal, because he believes it is now time for Hungary to be judged on a systemic basis. So it is clear that it is not the reality that matters to the liberals, but their problem is that here in Hungary, it is not a liberal democracy, but a Christian democracy. The good news is that the Hungarian people in their work, in their daily lives, these liberal attacks do not interfere at all, and we are living our proud Hungarian life. And what we would like to ask the government to do is to continue to reject these genderless attacks, especially during such a coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2020-05-11-107	As in the past, we will continue to adhere to the principle of trying to have a meaningful dialogue with everyone in the voice of respect, but if they get into us, if they refuse to listen to our arguments, if they refuse to even read the laws for which they criticize us, it is very difficult to speak intelligently. And allow one more thought on how hypocritical these countries are when dealing with such an offensive edge. I have not heard any of the five concerned foreign ministers, say condemning President Klaus Iohannis, not because he has passed a certain law in the parliament or is bound by a certain law to the government attached to it, but because he made the most open, brutally hateful comment on the Romanian Hungarians, thus openly calling for the restriction of the right that the Romanian Hungarians reject their democratic aspirations for autonomy, inciting ethnic hatred in that country. What could be more anti-democratic, what could be more anti-law, what could be more reprehensible? I would suggest to the five honourable foreign ministers that they deal with something other than Hungary, because there is much to be criticized here, if they look deep into things, they will not find it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-108	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When do the capitalists pay for their unpaid income? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2020-05-11-109	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-05-11-110	I would like to inform you, Congressman, that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the next meeting. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-05-11-111	We're patient. We'll wait for the Minister. Thank you.
u2020-05-11-112	I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's called the 2nd. Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer personally.
u2020-05-11-113	We want an answer from Minister. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-05-11-114	I apologise, Congressman, but I would like to ask for an answer on the immediate question of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2020-05-11-115	We'll wait for the Minister. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] But we filed it together.
u2020-05-11-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I don't know what's really funny about that. Perhaps you should remember who submitted the questions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why have thousands of people been sent home from hospitals? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-11-117	I'd like to see Mr. Secretary. By the way, thank you for the medical aids.
u2020-05-11-118	I would like to inform Congresswoman that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, from the MSZP Group, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. When will the Government increase the public health care envelopes? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-11-119	Thank you very much. Dear House, My question is to the Minister of Finance, because I see that the social aspects are once again being overwritten by budgetary considerations, even though we know that there is enough money now, at least for stadiums and hunting exhibitions. But some people need support even more: because of the coronal virus epidemic, older people and patients have to spend more money on medicines, medical aids and protective equipment than before. The emergency situation is an extraordinary cost for all, it is of the utmost importance for the elderly or those with chronic diseases to have adequate and sufficient protective equipment, not to mention the purchase of equipment for patients who are suddenly sent home. That is why it is important that older people and patients receive as much support as possible, they are targeted by the system of public health care. Unfortunately, this monthly amount and the amount of the annual ad hoc framework were last increased by the Socialist Government in 2006, since then the former was 12 thousand forints a month, and the latter was 6 thousand forints a year. There's no question that an increase in the amount would be justified even if the corona virus weren't here, but here it is. Double the amount, it would also cost approximately HUF 17 billion. Let's taste that word, 17 billion. Gee, isn't it just as much as they paid Lőrinc Mészáros the loss of power source blood? The renovation of the Prime Minister's office at the Castle cost 16 billion. It's not much, is it, Minister? I therefore ask with respect that existing subsidies be increased or supplemented to provide meaningful assistance to home care providers, patients and the elderly in need. I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2020-05-11-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, who will answer the Member's immediate question. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-11-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and From 1 January 2018, the income threshold established as the eligibility criterion for normative public health care increased by 5 per cent, which aimed at extending the scope of entitlement. The government remains committed to helping those in need with as many possible means as possible. This is particularly important now, when we are all working on the control of the coronal virus epidemic, and we are all looking for solutions that will help us to defend ourselves. This is also done by the Government's action to extend the entitlement to public health care during an emergency for an additional 90 days from the date of termination of the emergency without a review of the needs or income and financial situation of the recipient. Thanks to this moratorium, those in need are guaranteed access to the care they receive during the emergency period, because the most important thing now is the support and protection of families. This can also be complemented by the support of local authorities for the use of pharmaceuticals; they can provide support in the form of so-called municipal aid to people with social needs in order to reduce expenditure linked to the maintenance and restoration of their health. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-122	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2020-05-11-123	Thank you very much, Minister, for presenting your proposals in person. I would like to ask with great respect that the Hungarian Socialist Party has recently submitted its proposal on the measures necessary to increase support for people and patients who are caring at home. This includes, among other things, doubling the monthly monthly amount of public health care and the annual ad hoc envelope, as well as providing the right holders with a one-time subsidy of HUF 20,000. In any case, I believe that what you have said is that the entitlement to public health care has been extended by 90 days is extremely important, human. If you'll give me a little bit more of your municipal support, I'll thank you. But I definitely think that if, in addition to the love of sport, culture and hunting, people were to be given some attention, it would be extremely important. Thank you for listening, and please take into account the Hungarian Socialist Party's proposal, this is a forward-looking proposal to help a lot of citizens. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-124	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. [[13.30]]
u2020-05-11-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There was a sentence in his introduction that made me think. He said there was plenty of money. Of course, we want to create a situation in which the most important, necessary programmes are covered, but you should also know that every such payment, every single one of the funds, is backed by the Hungarian taxpayers. So we can take out a loan, re-defidelate the country for different proposals, but consider what we gain on one side and what we get on the other side. Thanks to Hungary's economic performance, it has been removed from the debt trap it had previously entered. I think that is also an important aspect. We need to find a point of balance where we can provide the most important support for public health care, but at the same time we do not jeopardise the opportunities that we want to create jobs in the near future or in the further future, and we want to support and help families through this. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-11-126	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "What are you afraid of?" It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-11-127	Thank you, Mr. President, I accept.
u2020-05-11-128	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-11-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, A recent government decree provides for 45 days for public authorities instead of 15 on emergency grounds to provide information of public interest that they would not otherwise be willing to disclose. Another loss of freedom of information further undermines transparency, even though through public data demand, the fourth branch of power, representatives of the press and opposition politicians can exercise their control role. Since, under the new parliamentary law, MEPs can only control public institutions to a limited extent, one of the last options is lost by restricting public interest data claims in this way, so that the public can learn about reality in reverse cases. It is a shame that the government does not want to maintain any more transparency. Dear Secretary of State, This regulation shows that you have something to hide. Citizens have the right to know the work of public bodies. Question is, what's the cabinet afraid of? Is he afraid of truth and the provision of real data? If so, it's actually a confession of their crimes. I would like, for example, if we could not look into how most of the BAHART ports were nationalised, and how are they preparing the privatisation of ports, of which companies most likely to benefit from the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz? For example, I would like to hide from the public that within the economic rescue package of the crisis caused by the epidemic, hundreds of billions of HUF for hotel renovations will be spent on how and to what will NER's fortunate supporters and winners spend? For example, do you want to hide the details of how Lőrinc Mészáros's interests in the shadow of the epidemic obtained HUF 100 billion in public procurement? So I ask the Secretary of State with all due respect: if you have nothing to hide, then what are you afraid of? Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-11-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The thing is, you've either been misinformed or you've misunderstood. The government decree you called, I believe, is 179-2020. The government decree reads as follows. The info law is 29. By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of paragraph 1, the public service body handling the data shall comply with the request within 45 days of receipt of the request if it is likely that the fulfilment of the specified 15-day time limit would jeopardise the performance of its public tasks related to the emergency. The applicant shall be informed by the body within 15 days of receipt of the claim. Therefore, the time limit for meeting the demand for public information has not changed, as has 15 days. Not all cases have changed, but only for cases where compliance with the request would jeopardise the control of the coronal virus epidemic are extended from 15 days to 45 days. This, by the way, is a matter of such a body, of such data, and it is as controversial in court as ever, and the scope of the data that can be obtained is exactly the same as before. There has been no change in this respect. The fact is that these organisations, such as hospitals, social institutions, are essentially responsible for people's lives and save lives. If you ask me the question that in exchange for their ability to fulfil their task of saving lives, it is reasonable to ask them to respond, not within 15 days, but within 45 days, to the various requests made by opposition representatives, then I think the answer to this question is, yes, that is a reasonable consideration. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-11-132	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is no debate between us in what he said with his last thought, and I think human life is the priority for all of us. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a law in force which has been adopted by two thirds, in which any legislation can be removed during an emergency. In this way, I believe that this will give the individual public authorities a rubber opportunity to push the deadline for responding to requests for data in the public interest on the grounds of the epidemic and on the grounds of an emergency, yes. I believe that it is unique in Europe, and there is no debate between us either, Mr Secretary of State, that the opposition and government must work together to combat the risk of epidemics, but there is no example of what you have done to break down the various democratic institutions practically gradually, and now also restrict freedom of information. Once again, with all due respect, what is the guarantee that you will actually refer to the epidemic situation in the event of requests for data in the public interest? Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-11-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am trying to be positive, Mrs Congresswoman, but we can agree that this is a worthy consideration. So the legislative change that you have criticised shows a reasonable consideration that otherwise the rules and structure on access to data of general interest do not change at all. She mentioned that Hungarian legislation is unique. Let me read you Article 39 of the Fundamental Law. Support or payment from the central budget may be granted only to an organisation whose ownership structure and structure are transparent. Each public body shall be required to take public account of its public finance management. Public funds and national wealth must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. Data on public funds and national assets are data of general interest. This regulation was not included in the previous basic law, which is now enshrined in the Fundamental Law adopted by these governing parties in a unique way in Europe. So I think this is the one. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-11-136	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What about the status of civil servant? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-11-137	I'll take it.
u2020-05-11-138	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, János Lázár, his former colleague, said in 2016:, In the coming years, the number of people working in the public sector should be reduced by around 300,000 employees. In 2014, the Prime Minister quoted in a speech in Tusnádfürdő the Gyula Tellér study in which he said that those who live from the state redistribution were members of the post-socialist culture. It is no coincidence that the suspicion that workers in vocational training, and then cultural workers, will be removed from the status of civil servants, will lead to more people being excluded from the status of civil servants and will slowly try to break the status of civil servants, driven by neoliberal ideology, which will provide opportunities for collective wage bargaining for employees of the State. The fact is that the status of civil servant is because the rules of the labour market cannot apply to people who carry out public services, who perform public tasks. For example, the public collection workers who hold Hungarian national cultural values, where you now allow market logic under cover of the epidemic situation. I tried to ask in writing Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, that yes, or that they do not intend to exclude others from the status of civil servants. Secretary of State Schanda wrote a page and a half with a significant intellectual achievement, from which a lot of things could be laundered, but not to remove others from the status of civil servants or not. [[13.40]] I would ask Mr. Vice-Prime Minister to honor the Parliament, following civil traditions, by giving a direct answer: in this cycle, will he remove others from the status of civil servant or not?
u2020-05-11-140	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, His question had a more general and a more specific part. Now let me start with the more specific part, which relates to the change in the relationship between public education institutions and civil servants working in public collections. First of all, Hungary spends the most money on culture in Europe compared to the performance of the economy, since while the country spends 1.5 percent of GDP on culture, this figure is 0.6 percent in Europe. Nor is there a debate between us, honourable Member, that the government is convinced that the designation of the legal relationship does not determine the value of the service to the community, that the appreciation of the employees of the cultural sphere and their activities is beyond discussion. The question is that this measure will put workers in a more favourable or worse position, and this is already the general part of their question. We consider that the overall situation of those affected will not be less favourable than that currently provided for by the current legislation. Employees will have access to a fairer wage according to their actual skills and their invested work, as the government will continue to make a 6-percent wage increase in this specific area in 2020. So I must say to you, honourable Member, that it is not the form that determines the effectiveness, the appreciation, but I think that the content that is intended for different areas. From this point of view, it is safe to review existing statuses in other areas, the question, the aim, is to make the people working there worse or better. I am convinced that they will not be in a worse position in this regard. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-142	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-143	Thank you for the floor. It is so important to name the status that even Miklós Melega, Szombathely's KDNP representative, who is otherwise involved in the institution, said that the removal of civil servant status has a negative impact on cultural workers. The fact is that I understood from the words of Deputy Prime Minister that they were prepared to remove additional professions and jobs from the status of civil servant. One of the consequences of this, though, is that it will be easier to divorce people who are carrying out public service tasks for the State today. So the fact is that what János Lázár said in 2016 that we should reduce the number of people working in the public sector by 300,000 is the policy of the government. In Hungary, those who work for the state do not receive enough wages. They don't need dismissals, they need appreciation at last, and finally a somewhat competitive wage with the market. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-144	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-145	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Every opinion in Szombathely is important, and I myself have spent a year in the Hungarian Defence Service, and I know how important the opinion of the Szombathely people is, especially when it comes to you in the form of a warrant. [[Defiance.]] But allow me to draw your attention to the fact that there is a dialogue between representatives of the sector concerned and representatives of the government on this matter and on all other matters. In March 2019 the Association of Hungarian Archives, the Association of National Public Collections, the National Association of Cultural Centres, the Association of Hungarian Ethnographers, the Association of Hungarian Librarians, the Association of Hungarian Librarians, the Association of Informatics and Library, the Association of Hungarian Rural Museums, the Pulszky Society and the Petőfi Literary Museum were welcomed by the government and a lengthy consultation took place. That's when we made that decision. I think it's the right form. Thus, the opinion in Szombathely is also important, but if I look at it in a broader perspective, these interest representatives may be able to display a greater coverage for the government. Thank you for asking, by the way. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-146	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, The government has recently been in charge of the VIII. He took more than one billion forints from the district and 400 billion forints from Ferencváros, but he did not spare the countryside, for example, 100 million forints were taken for an investment to build the Csemő-Cegléd bicycle route. This was justified by transferring it to the control of the epidemic. The abstract funds aimed at housing renovations, community house renovations and infrastructural improvements. Perhaps there is no discussion between us that these were serious job creation improvements. The problem with that is that the government's communication here in the crisis is all about creating jobs. But these decisions are totally against it. When we're Paks II. in connection with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line or other visual investments, let us say that these should be cancelled, then your reason is constantly that it creates jobs. Yeah, but for who? Well, first of all, to my friends, Lőrinc Mészáros, Russian and Chinese companies, and the problem is that these municipal withdrawals probably took the job from ordinary Hungarian people, Hungarian companies, and took away the revenue. By the way, it's pretty grotesque that the government's poster campaign has 6 billion forints on it, by the way: how much jobs does it create? , but these municipalities cannot afford these reasonable improvements. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Who do you want to create a job for? Only for foreign companies and Ripper Lawrence? How much more money does the government plan to take from the municipalities? We know they're going to take you away from the opposition authorities, but would you be so kind as to help us find out who's in charge? Did you coordinate with the members of Parliament in the district, especially the Fidesz representative, and what did he say about these withdrawals? And you're going to use this money to raise the wages of health workers? Because in this case, there's only one way to justify it. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-148	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2020-05-11-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I thank you for your question, because it draws attention to the situation that the epidemic and the emergency sometimes rewrites the scenarios. This year, no one has prepared for such a situation, not the municipalities, not the government, not different businesses, companies or even employees. I can tell you, too, what I was able to say here in the Hungarian Parliament earlier, that this situation is also changing the order of government subsidies. There are issues that are much more important today, human life is one of them, the establishment of a budget for health care, the control of the epidemic, the payment of subsidies is definitely more important, the purchase of masks, protective equipment, ventilators, and so on. And we have expenses that need to be in parentheses now and then. There will be a way to do that later, there will be a chance that if the epidemic threat, the emergency will pass and the situation will return to normal. Perhaps you agree that now, in this situation, in response to the question of your fellow faction, the management of unemployment, people's employment and the provision of these benefits are much more important. I am pleased to inform you that 81,000 small businesses will be exempted from paying a specific tax on small businesses, kata, by the end of June. I am also pleased to tell you that companies working in catering, tourism, entertainment, sports and cultural areas or in passenger transport have been able to release their employer's contributions, workers' contributions have been significantly reduced and pension contributions do not have to be paid in these areas. So, overall, there has been a redeployment that is certain to have less beneficiaries, but there are areas for which we can provide the necessary resources. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-150	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-05-11-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, unfortunately, he hasn't answered any of my questions, and from that answer it can be concluded that there are still withdrawals for municipalities. [[13.50]] Deputy Prime Minister said we need to rewrite the scripts, the sequences, because there are more important things. Interestingly, when it comes to EU aid, the EU funds that the European Union has made possible are somehow not being made available there. Even there, it would be possible to rewrite priorities, order orders, move that 2,000 billion here or there. After all, the same investment can take place in Ferencváros or Józsefváros, but interestingly they do not do so. This is a very interesting part. It is also interesting that you usually refer to municipalities in the same place as banks and multi-enterprises. The municipalities are carrying out a very serious disease control exercise. They support those who lose their jobs against you. They support the people you sent home from the hospitals, take care of them. That's what the local government's gonna use the money for, and you're gonna take that money away from them.
u2020-05-11-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a return answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
u2020-05-11-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, spends enough money from its budget to be an expert behind every parliamentary faction, and these experts help our work. If you ask such a question, I'll have to ask you what you're spending this money on. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Good question!]] The press is full of the fact that EU funds, although fresh money or new funding, are not available from the European Union, can still be reorganised. The government's been working on this for weeks. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Finance are working on and making proposals to reorganise these resources, including through the transfer of funds to Kurzarbeit, to support those who have lost their jobs or to support businesses. This is what the Hungarian government does. We're not getting any more money from Brussels, but we're rearranging the existing funds. By the way, most of these funds have already been written out as a tender or covered, so they also require the same redeployment as you just complained about when reorganizing municipal investments. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-154	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsigmond Barna Pál, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "When will you apologize?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. I ask the Member, either to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer personally.
u2020-05-11-155	I'll take it.
u2020-05-11-156	Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, While the government is doing everything in its power to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, Hungary's enemies have used the coronal virus epidemic to launch a cynical, meaner and more lying campaign against our country. The fake news companies lied that Parliament was closed in Hungary. All members of the rather extensive network would now be unnecessary and impossible to list, but there is nothing new under the sun, it is the same as it has always been for ten years. The Dutch Sophie in 't Veld, known for a long time for her anti-Hungarian manifestations, went to the point of being exhausted: she was sick of lawyering, Hungary should be condemned even if the Crown Virus Act is legal. According to him, for example, the Hungarian government has completed its project to kill democracy and the rule of law. The fallen Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said that the European Union must strike and drive Hungary out of the Union. It is regrettable that the Foreign Ministers of five Nordic countries have joined the ranks, who are repeatedly twisting and instigating against Hungary. Meanwhile, the Czech vice-president of the European Commission, Vera Jourová, whose party belongs to the liberal party family, cannot be accused of bias towards Fidesz, said in opposition to the total fire falling on him from the Balliberal Network: Hungary has not yet adopted legislation that would be contrary to the EU legal order. In other words, the Vice-President of the European Commission, who oversees the legal order of the European Union, said himself that all those who visualize the end of democracy in Hungary, as so many times have already lied again, the Hungarian delegation law is not contrary to the EU legal order. At the same time, it is interesting that Jourová was forced to withdraw his position at the pressure of the Balliberal Network a few days later, and although he was still unable to link or point to specific legislation, according to Balliberal custom we could say for everything: he is concerned about everything that is happening in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, What can the government do in such a situation? When do the opposition and the lying members of international Balliberal groups apologize to the Hungarians? Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: How about you?]]
u2020-05-11-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This debate has been going on here for more than two months between the opposition and the ruling parties. Indeed, they started this campaign with a capital lie when they said that the government suspended the operation of the Hungarian Parliament. We are meeting here now, and we know that we are adopting laws, and the government is in a normal state of emergency and emergency government regulations. As far as the latest slanders are concerned, it seems that there is a laundering of things, such as the legal facts of the rumors that Parliament has adopted, that they are trying to make it seem that if the government had broken the press by decree, it would censor and intimidate journalists. It's enough to open up any Internet portal, and I'm not experiencing any relief from the slander campaign they've been conducting before. It also seems that there has been mention of Sophie in't Veld's speech, or even Matteo Renzinek's speech, that it is part of an international choir produced by the Hungarian opposition press and opposition representatives; it is as if the tasks of the Open Society Foundation's Janichar School were launched and continued against the government. What is good news is that regardless of this, the government is primarily concerned with the emergency situation. What they object to is that 70 government decrees have been issued during this period, and they are trying to make it look like it's used to restrict the opposition and the press and to build a dictatorship. I looked at it as statistical data, from 1 March to the end of April last year, 72 government regulations were adopted, and all the measures that they are trying to set out to be taken by the government in the event of an emergency, have been used by the government to allocate funds and provide for budgetary resources. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-160	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Hard!]]
u2020-05-11-161	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. We can't pretend that European politicians make up these accusations themselves. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári, pointing to the opposition benches, sitting across from the people who can figure it out.]] Since it has been proven on several occasions that they do not know the law, they do not understand what is in the legislation. They have not read these, and they make unfounded accusations without any material knowledge. So it is clear that these lies come from certain members of the Hungarian opposition. Over the last decade, they have become so accustomed to their country's foreign demise that it is now the essence of their policy, apart from the rumble of heat. Perhaps the information that Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife boasted to others that she convinced 25 foreign journalists that the parliament did not work in Hungary. Perhaps CNN's well-known journalist could have gotten the information from him when he said on live television that Parliament does not work in Hungary. But I could also quote Szabó Timea; here in this House he said that it is also proof that the government is breaking down the Parliament by submitting a bill to Parliament. And enough of this double standard! For example, President Iohannis will not be held accountable for his statement, and Hungary will be quick to condemn. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The first part of the question was that we could expect an apology. If I just think about the events of the last ten years, when we introduced taxes in the energy sector, for example, and reduced the bills, and complained that public services would collapse, the banks would collapse, but the reality denied them my apology since then. If we look at migration processes, in February 2015, when Prime Minister announced that we would have difficulties that year, because the flood started, they laughed at Parliament and challenged his words. Migration has been often debated ever since. Since then, they have not apologized for these criticisms, the lies they have committed. And why would all the slanders that are thrown at us every day in the Union, even in the European Parliament, change? They didn't apologize for the fall speech at the 56 commemoration for the eye shots. Unfortunately, we cannot expect this from this opposition. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-11-164	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question: It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-11-165	I accept, thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-166	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-167	Dear House, Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, I started my speech last week with an economic theory pass. I would do so now, if I may. Two theories on jobs will conflict in practice over the next period. One is that the crisis is going to destroy thousands of jobs, there is nothing we can do, and we need to focus on making up for losses as quickly as possible in the public sector, either in the defence or in public work after the crisis. Thesis 1: I think right now that the government prefers this theory. [[14.00]] However, another aspect, along with my fellow Members, is what we prefer. The fact that we are aware that the crisis will destroy jobs, but at the same time in times of crisis, everything must be done to ensure that jobs are preserved and jobs remain despite difficulties. We're working on it, we want to work on it. But why do I say you don't think so? Like last week, I've been trying to bring evidence. I've brought three in numbers now. One: news from two weeks ago that the government supports the Mongolian economy and the Mongolian job creation is proof 1. Last week's news is that the government supports jobs and the economy in Kyrgyzstan for HUF 16 billion. To add, progress, we are getting closer and closer to Hungary. And unfortunately, I also brought a letter that was also sent last week to the workers by the Director of Iron Works, and in this I regret to say, last week's letter, that he forced a thousand colleagues to pay reduced wages due to the economic situation in the next three months. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I ask the Minister or Secretary of State: is the Ironworks among the 3,000 companies you have mentioned many times and supported it? Can you guarantee that? On the other hand, if not, how do you intend to support the largest employer in Fejér County? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-11-168	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For the government, all Hungarians are important, and that is why they decided on Hungary's largest economic protection action plan, which affects about 20 percent of GDP. The priority objective of this is to protect jobs, which you have just called for us, which is what the economic protection action plan is about, and that is what we cannot protect, because the virus will destroy it, and instead we will create new ones. Honourable Congressman, I have already said this number today, but I repeat for your sake: 3953 employers provide some 54 000 employees with protection from the wage support system offered by the government. Honourable Congressman, According to the management, Dunaferr would also like to use this option. The reason why it reduces the working time of workers according to the wage support system is because it trusts and rightly trusts that the Hungarian State provides wage support to its employees. By the way, you've been informed of this, and you've read about it, too, if not elsewhere, on Web sites that are Jobbik's own news portal. According to these reports, it is planned to reduce the working time of a thousand employees, not directly in production, from 1 June. Honourable Congressman, He could also have been informed about it in an interview he published this week, which he claimed was the opposite here this week. Allow me to quote it literally: we have always had a very forward-looking relationship, and I have also spoken to the head of the ITM and the State Department several times in person, in addition to other government officials. You understand the situation of Dunaferr perfectly well. This is the case, honourable Member, neither in your speech nor in the last week. Allow me to finish by asking what kind of support the better-looking Dunaújváros offers to the Iron Works. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-171	Well, Mr. Secretary, it's hard for us to look at two years if we're going to do this, because the facts are stubborn. I bring the evidence all the time, no letter proves what you're saying. I would add that a company operating in Hungary dares to say anything other than that it is not in good company with you. They still can't count on anything unless Lőrinc the Butcher is in charge. The payment and the slip I mentioned last week was not due to you, but I quote the letter: thanks to the goodwill of our business partners, not thanks to the government. It was also written in that letter that you had done nothing yet. And here's another thing: you didn't guarantee that you would support the Dunaferr. But if we're getting personal and you're asking what we've done, since 2018, the district has an industrial minister named Dénes Galambos. After you failed the election, you received a greasy position from your Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán. Where is he? What have you done for industry, what have you done for Dunaferr? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Have you even been to Dunaferr in the past few years? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-11-172	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-11-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our thinking focuses on work and jobs. That is why I quoted to you the head of the company - who, if I understand it correctly, you think is lying to the Hungarian press and the people of Dunaújváros, this is an interesting attitude from the representative of the district, but let us accept this fact, who tells us that I would like to take advantage of the wage support provided by the government. The possibility of such wage support is available to all undertakings who submit the necessary documents. We are looking forward to these documents and, of course, it is in our interest to provide the necessary support to preserve these jobs. But, Congressman, it is not customary for us to make a decision in advance on the basis of undocumented documents. There might be one at Jobbik. We don't have one. So my request, honourable Member, is first to talk about what Dunaújváros is doing to make sure that the workers of the Iron Works are doing the best possible. We're waiting for an answer from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: what measures were taken in the event of an emergency by the opposition-led municipalities? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The left-wing parties campaigned with the passwords of transparency, democracy, anti-corruption before the autumn municipal elections from Jobbik to Gyurcsány. After their victory, however, it turned out that all this was just another Gyurcsány promise, in Hungarian: a lie. After the elections, the opposition-led districts immediately began to distribute to faithful principle friends, to increase the number of advisors and sub-Mayors, and to significantly increase their salary. Annex VII is amended as follows: 1 and XI The first task of the DK administration of the district was to conclude a multimillion-dollar contract with Csaba Czeglédy, the home lawyer, friend of the Gyurcsányes, and the ally of Péter Ungár of LMP in Szombathely. The contract was, of course, also encrypted in the spirit of transparency. Annex XI is amended as follows: In early March, the district increased the budget for the contract several times, and then Peter Niedermüller of DK, who called the formation of millions of Hungarians terrifying, decided on another large contract in one person, which he made this time with Csaba Czeglédy for HUF 29 million plus VAT, instead of supporting the inhabitants of Erzsébetváros. The Metropolitan Government Office also investigated the case. While opposition city leaders constantly complain instead of working and do not want to contribute to the fight against the epidemic even with a minimum of common burden, there is enough money to conclude tens of millions of contracts with the tax fraudster Czeglédy. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the government office found during the investigation, why the Gyurcsányist authorities spend on this instead of defence. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the decree of 11 March on the announcement of an emergency, the government declared this special legal order throughout Hungary, and in accordance with the provisions of the disaster protection law, all tasks and powers of the representative body are exercised by the mayor in an emergency. [[14.10]] In our view, therefore, the mayor is entitled, in the event of an emergency, to act in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the municipality, and even to do so, but the requirements of necessity and proportionality must be maintained; decisions which do not have a statutory deadline are not necessarily necessary for the performance of the task, but may be deferred. In our view, it is also not compatible with this mandate to take a decision with a content which is not related to the prevention and defence of an emergency and to the reduction of the damage associated with it. Mr Niedermüller, acting in this capacity, concluded a contract with the Czeglédy and Partners' Law Office for legal representation of HUF 29 million plus VAT from 1 April to 31 December 2020. On the basis of the reply sent by the notary of the municipality, we see only the tasks set out in the contract, there is no reason to delay. It is clear from the mandate agreement that this is a general contract for the provision of tasks, and therefore the position of the Government Office is quite clear that the decision by Mayor Niedermüller to conclude the contract with the Czeglédy and Associates Law Office is against the law. Therefore, on May 6, the Government Office of Budapest Metropolitan City issued a legal call and requested that the mayor terminate the conflict of interest within 30 days and annul the decision. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-05-11-178	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Thank you for your answer. Dear Secretary of State, It is reassuring that the government office is guarding the rule of law, since we see that the Gyurcsányist mayors, Obuda, are in Budapest. in the district or even in the XI. In the district, instead of defending themselves, they're gonna take responsibility for giving millions of contracts to friends, Gyurcsány's house lawyer and friend. We find it outrageous that the emergency is being used to fill a convicted tax fraud with ten million, while both the mayor and the district mayors complain, relieve responsibility, and in the meantime we see much less work, much less meaningful action from them in connection with the emergency. We ask them to stop bullshitting, stop complaining, stop taking responsibility, take responsibility, and start working effectively for our common interest to overcome the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-11-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I agree with you that there is a certain picantria of this issue, because the opposition is accusing us of dictatorship, while they are the ones who exploit the available legal environment by circumventing legality, and we are accused of releasing local governments from resources, although, as shown in the accompanying diagram, there is scope for advisory contracts and increases in salaries. I believe that the legal functioning of the municipalities must be ensured, and that the Prime Minister's Office has the task and competence to do so, and we will continue to do our best in the future. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-182	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the real data? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. László Kács: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In order to reduce the economic impact of the health emergency, a historic economic rescue package is actually expected by the whole country, and everyone is rooting for fewer people to lose their jobs, and we hear the confident Prime Minister say on every channel that they will create as many jobs as the virus will destroy. How much? How much is that? We are hearing so many data that, in truth, our sense of political security, but also our sense of economic security, as we have heard from Secretary of State Schanda that there are 163 thousand unemployed, the National Employment Service is talking about 281 thousand unemployed, according to the sources leaked from the ITM, there are 330,000 unemployed. How much jobs do we need to create? How much will GDP increase or decrease? After all, the two very important players in economic policy, you and the President of the Central Bank, say something completely different. Even yesterday, on Sunday, the President of the Central Bank said that there will be a 2-3 percent increase, and you say, above all, that there will be a 3 percent decrease. This is the difference between their thinking and their prognosis for the Hungarians of HUF 2700 billion, and last but not least the European Commission's professional apparatus, in which you, today, said that you have great confidence, and they say that Hungary has a 7 percent recession, so this figure is even bigger, this is almost HUF 4500 billion, which you are talking about, let us say, the President of the Central Bank and the European Commission. Mr. Secretary, is it okay to have all this data coming out? Is it okay to not know what to expect, what to prepare for, and what means to control it? And not least, what growth or decline do you expect in the next period? These are my questions. Thank you.
u2020-05-11-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2020-05-11-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There are times when a person is disturbed by the data, but our job is to try to make clear from this data pile, from the data jungle, what scenarios can be, and to prepare ourselves for them, to prepare the country. This is what the Hungarian government does, whether it is unemployment or the performance of the economy. As Congressman said, there is a variety of data on unemployment, for example. The Hungarian Central Statistical Office compiles these data according to a different methodology, a different system, such as, say, the National Employment Service, taking different types of measurements, but from these it is quite clear that since mid-March, the epidemic, since the start of the emergency, has deteriorated in unemployment data. I think that what is important for the government is that we can prepare for it and have the means to help people who are temporarily unemployed. In this respect, I would therefore like to confirm the words of Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, who said here earlier and you quoted that there are 163 thousand Hungarian people who have turned to the government for help, for example, for unemployment aid or income replacement support, because they do not have a job at the moment. That's the data you can work with, by the way. As far as economic growth is concerned, honourable Member, obviously as many as we are, we see in so many ways the growth that can be in this country. There is no other way with the experts of the institutions. The government, the Treasury Department, has drawn a more cautious macro-track, and the central bank has a more ambitious one. I think that we will soon see where these paths differ, because industrial data, consumption data, inflation figures show that we can see more and more clearly what is expected in the Hungarian economy in the coming weeks. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-186	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I understand it, Minister, there is incorrect data on the National Employment Service website; this should only be recorded for the protocol. You and President Matolcsy usually tell each other in the press that we need euros, we don't need euros, we have recessions, we don't have recessions, and they don't usually agree with them, just as you don't agree with the optimism of the central bank. This basically raises further questions, as we will begin discussing the next year's budget in weeks or even days. Then I must ask the Minister of Finance what reasons he has for over-optimizing the forecasts of the central bank. Why don't you think Matolcsy's right? What is the increase in next year's budget? Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-11-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Don't slide, please. I didn't say in a word that the National Employment Service wasn't accurate. They're probably accurate, but I've been telling you that they're different from what KSH, the Statistical Office, is measuring. From this point of view, you can work with a variety of data, which I suggest you consider. [[14.20]] As far as the recession is concerned, I would like to say that there is no recession yet, honourable Member, so the Hungarian economy is still on the path that can be said to be positive in the first quarter. How difficult it is to assess these data may be to suggest that the Ministry of Finance regularly makes estimates. Our previous estimate, which was made a few weeks ago, reflected that there could be about 1.4 percent increase in the first quarter. We are now more optimistic, and we see from the data in March that this type of growth can be up to 2.6 percent. Thus, even within an institution there may be a difference in how to judge the situation now or a few weeks earlier, so do not conflict with the fact that there is such a technical difference between institutions at all. These professional debates are suitable for us to conduct them, discuss them, and then make decisions based on them. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-11-190	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 2:20 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no political group has asked for a question, this item will not be discussed. Following the discussion of our agendas today, I would like to ask you to leave the room in accordance with the information provided earlier by the Director General, who intends to do so. Dear Parliament, We now have post-scheduled speeches. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP Group, asked for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-05-11-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am very pleased that Minister Süli is still in the room, because I will be talking about a subject that is fully connected to his portfolio. Basically, my city, Pécs, is affected in two directions by the country's largest project, the Paks expansion project, and many obligations related to the use of nuclear energy and the use of nuclear energy. Unfortunately, we can see that, in terms of energy policy, the government is reviving our future; and here the debates over the last few weeks have shown that Pécs wants to be betrayed again, and it has also shown that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán does not want to fulfill his promises almost five years ago. This is obviously completely unacceptable. The question is relevant in several ways. The government recently presented a so-called climate strategy to the Parliament, from which it is clear that it has only one purpose in fact to try to legitimise the issue and project of the Paks enlargement rejected by the majority of Hungarian people. Several, we can say, that there is currently a technical amendment of the law before the Parliament, which affects the use of nuclear energy, affects the management of nuclear waste. However, in recent years, we have seen some redeployment of the Paks expansion, the Paks project, in the context of the economic protection action plan. And I asked a written question to Minister, for which I received an answer a few days ago, in which I was reassured, Minister, that the project was on track, so this transfer is not affected. We're curious to hear from you. We know that the project is already in a huge delay, originally planned for 2024 to put the new blocks into service, now it has a target date of 2030, and we know that, based on the latest promises that are now official, the authorisation procedure can start until 30 June 2020, Minister promised. But what we can see is that most of what the government has said in support of the Paks expansion has proved to be a lie or a mistake. You can see that the price of the electricity generated by the new blocks will no longer be able to repay the loan, because these will not be completed. It also proved to be a lie that Paks expansion would be cheap. We have said a million times that huge investment costs do not include the cost of decommissioning, the management of nuclear waste. It has also been suggested that the water level of the Danube will be sufficient to cool the new blocks, old blocks. We are not exactly familiar with the technical content of the need for cooling towers or other technical solutions. But a very serious question is that there is no definitive solution to this: a fundamental task that Hungary obviously has to do, the management of high-activity nuclear waste. There is therefore no solution to this in terms of location choice, technology or funding. During the discussions we may have found out in recent years, didn't we, Mr Schanda State Secretary, that, indeed, here is a very serious promise from the Prime Minister in connection with the choice of location that the contribution of the people in Pécs and its region cannot be built without consulting the nuclear waste reservoir. And it seems that the government now has the official position that it does not want to deal with this issue; and Mr Secretary of State clearly did not acknowledge the fact that a political decision must be taken at this time. We support this by the fact that research into the site of the potential nuclear cemetery, high-activity waste storage has been going on for a very long time, and a phase was completed in 2018. The continuation of this phase has become that this project has entered a new phase, and last spring the project received a so-called site research permit. We know that more than 10 billion forints have already been spent, and a very, very long research phase is now underway, which will obviously also require many billion forints to be consumed. Now, in this situation, we say that Prime Minister must fulfill his promise and ask Pécs and the citizens of the region to accept this location. So this area, which was selected at the time on the basis of technical, geological considerations, must also be examined in this respect to accept it by the population there. In many cases, the government has referred to international experience, the need to learn from it in such important projects. Indeed, international experience can be used to support examples that it is unthinkable to implement such a nuclear facility in such a way that the population of that region goes against it. I would add that even the professionals involved acknowledge that they know exactly how much resistance there is. In fact, at this particular public hearing, which was held in the spring of 2019, the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office acknowledged in this report that they saw that there was a big problem, and they saw that the city of Pécs rejected this project. Therefore, once again, in order to safeguard the Prime Minister's honour and credibility, and in accordance with the interests of Pécs and its most important region, we call on the Government to review the national programme for the management of nuclear waste and to make a political decision to explore alternative locations using scarce resources, time and money, so that this very important obligation can be met by Hungary in such a way that it also takes into account the interests of the population of the regions concerned. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-11-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr. Erik Fülöp, an independent representative, asked for a post-municipal address:, Support the government with the title of animal shelters. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, We regret the fact that we regret that the effects of the corona virus cause a terrible economic recession in almost all segments of the economy, but the extent of this is not equal. We see that hospitality and tourism are very affected, but there are also many other areas in which there are huge impacts. Of course, you also agree, I think everyone, that in this case the government must make important decisions, which is why I think that the economic protection action plan in which the government is thinking can be supported. However, it should also be stressed that many areas have been left out of this economic protection action plan. I think one of the most painful points is that you have to face such huge anomalies as the support of musicians who pocket millions of star gas in other luxuries, or the support of professional football players, but as animal defenders, I think it is absolutely shocking to me that hundreds of millions of forints of state support have been used to help current Hungarian circuses and circus workers, who, we all know, keep animals in terrible conditions. Unfortunately, however, it must also be stated that this economic protection plan of the government has forgotten about hundreds of shelters and hundreds of animal welfare associations and NGOs, non-profit organisations that have been trying to help animals in distress with their hard work every day for many years. I think it is also obvious to everyone that in recent years these animal shelters, these animal welfare organisations, have had huge liquidity problems and have generally maintained themselves through voluntary offerings and generous donations. Their current situation is also very, very strongly affected by the coronal virus epidemic. Mi Hazank Movement has also contacted many animal protection organizations, NGOs and foundations, including myself, which have emphasized that they have reached a critical point, since all their sources of income have faded, and it is very difficult, whether to supply animals with them, or to force their last forints to feed or to those ill-reliable medical costs in this current situation. [[14.30]] Therefore, in the name of the Hungarian Movement, I appeal with respect to the Government and to the Honourable Parliament to try to help these shelters, these civil society organisations, these animal protection associations, because there is an opportunity to do so from the financial framework for extraordinary measures. I would like to propose that all shelters, animal shelters and civil society organisations in difficulty are currently being promoted by the government, which is also a very important task. However, I think that it should also be stressed that Article 21 (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. In Hungary, there is a huge need for a powerful animal protection regulation that is currently not embodied in the Animal Protection Act. However, I would also like to mention that it is essential to immediately eliminate reproductive sites from the government and Parliament. In addition, we would like to demand the immediate establishment of the animal police and, of course, the dissuasive and dissuasive punishments for animal torturers that could finally be sentenced to imprisonment and sent to prison. I would like to express one message to the kind society and to the animal friends: that, as they have done in recent years and decades, if they have the opportunity, this year, in this difficult situation, they should try to adopt animals from a shelter. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Dr. István Simicskó applauds.]]
u2020-05-11-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, applied for a speech with the title of the situation at Lake Fertő. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, in the west, at Lake Fertő, the situation remains the same. First of all, I would like to point out that the development of Lake Fertő is a very long-awaited and supportive project, but at the same time, as I have always explained, as the founding member of the civil society association of the Lake Fertő, the Fidesz city guide wanted to impose an idea on us, which would have been a huge hotel and a huge yacht port, like the fever in Balaton, to defile this area, to which I am also emotionally linked, because my father died on this lake, and he had a steak that he used to go fishing. Moreover, nothing seems to have happened since the start of this investment, as even the first phase has not started, despite the fact that this area has been isolated from the inhabitants of the Sopron region for many months. In addition, while opposition representatives were accused by the Fidesz footage media of representing Austrian interests, after 53 years the Hungarian entrepreneur who directed the cruise on Lake Fertő had to abandon it; it was a shame that the port, built in the framework of the Széchenyi Plan, was issued to an Austrian company, so the Austrian shipping company operates naturally, only the Hungarian company does not. I would also like to state here that we, together with the Austrian Freunde des Neusiedlersees association, are opposed to any megaloman investment on the shore of Lake Fertő, either on the Austrian side or on the Hungarian side, which destroys the cultural heritage and landscape that is part of the UNESCO World Heritage. In this situation, therefore, the condition developed that while beaching is slowly becoming permitted, the inhabitants of the Sopron region still cannot go out to Lake Fertő, not least for entrepreneurs there. So it's time for us to put this whole thing in order. Dear House, The Mayor of Sopron, Mr.Cyprián Farkas, once again showed that he represents only the will of Viktor Orbán and the will of the local deputy mayor family, not the interests of the citizens of Sopron. What has happened in the last few days? What has happened is that since the establishment of the Sopron municipality last October, for the first time since last October, the elected mayor has asked for an opinion from opposition representatives. On behalf of the EPP Jobbik, our local government representative Éva Mayer also submitted our proposals, which included why the Mayor's decision not to touch the expenditure for accumulation is wrong, but to cut operational expenditure; I translate: he wants to take away the money from the employees in Sopron. We are, of course, against this, and, in particular, we find it cynical that, after we have delivered our concrete proposals, after which, in an arrogant, typically fidesz Facebook post, he still distributed the municipal opposition representatives that they were in a sandbox. Dear Mr.Cyprian Wolf, mayor. You're on the other side of the horse. As a candidate for election in the constituency of Sopron, who has more than ten thousand citizens of Sopron behind his back, I say this here in the walls of this House: you are unfit to run the city of Sopron. We have made very clear and concrete proposals: eliminate the public press and propaganda publications, stop the city from purchasing new cars and the luxury costs, redistribute marketing and propaganda costs, minimize representative and travel costs, do not hold smaller events until autumn, reschedule the bleachers and waterproofing of the city stadium, and I could even make a more specific list of proposals that, according to this, did not deserve so much from the elected mayor of the town of Sopron County to stop lying about them on his Facebook page. Shame, shame! He's not fit to run the city on Wolf Cipro. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-11-196	Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-197	Mr President, Dear House, I accuse you of having to accuse the banker's government, the one that has started since 2010, and contributes to the mass plundering of the Hungarian population, the Hungarian citizens, while proclaiming, on your billboards, I quote, that you will have the banks accounted for. Why do I have to make this plea? On the one hand, because the Calvary of those who had suffered foreign exchange credit started in 2001 in a way that became a practical opportunity from the point of view of unilateral contractual amendments, and then, in quotes, the spirit was released from that particular bottle by various tinted governments, and for the second half of the 2010-2014 cycle, it became apparent that the situation was untenable. Hundreds and thousands of evictions started, and we are now well over 10,000 in terms of recent years, and not only did Canaan of evictors come to Hungary, but we can now say, in the context of the epidemiological emergency, that it is also a paradise of executives, because, quite rightly, for a better proposal, among other things, Hungary's Government has ordered a moratorium on credit repayment, and I think this is a point that we need to catch because we agree and are positive. What is next to it is in the fine print part, but it is repulsive, because Hungary is one of the countries in a special situation where so-called executive bans are the lowest salaries, and I stress that small pensions can also be burdened, in this situation, in the context of an epidemiological emergency: in the case of a debt, 33 percent, in the case of several stackers, up to 50 percent of the lowest salaries or small pensions can go away, precisely among those who need this money right now. And their situation is not facilitated by the 27 percent VAT, by the absence of the regime oratorium, and by a number of measures that would be desperately needed in the middle of a social cataclysm situation. Compared to this, last week, the Hungarian Parliament discussed the so-called special tax law on banks, which also aims to burden the banking system in the sense of burden-sharing: as parties practically had to give 50 percent of their money to defend themselves and we are ahead of it, the Government of Hungary tried to approach the issue on the basis of public burden-sharing. Well, it really didn't work. With regard to multi-company companies, a 35-40 billion-dollar charge is planned under the title of public burden-sharing, while this multi-sector is pumping profits from the Hungarian national economy untaxed in the order of a thousand billion-dollar scale every year. And here's our expensive banking system, after these foreign exchange credit, eviction, execution cataclysms, with a record profit of well over 600 billion in the last measured period, and in the region as a whole, an apparent HUF 55 billion special tax has now been imposed on it. [[14.40]] However, this special tax amount will be returned twice within Fidesz-KDNP capitals to the banking system. On the one hand, they allow this entire deposit to be written down from the tax of the coming years, so apparently the banking system pays, practically getting it back to 100 percent. But to make the story even fatter, the Hungarian National Bank provides a thousand billion-dollar credit line for those affected. They also provide a 4 per cent margin for all of this, thus supporting another 40 billion forints of the banking system that seems to be paying, but in reality, it is profiting from the crisis, profiting from the epidemiological emergency, and profiting in an unprecedented way, while everyone is making a donation, everyone is trying to prevent troubles. The reason I call it a banker's government is because it gives its name to this disgusting pact, it was able to bring in such a bill, and the implementations, the excesses, have still not been stopped. I would also like to add that this was not unexpected. The EBRD pact concluded in 2015 and concluded by Fidesz-KDNP was precisely that. There, the Government of Hungary undertook on paper not to put any additional burden on the banking system in order to help the creditors, nor will it prevent further eviction and enforcement maladministration, because once again, Hungary's banker government has made an unprecedented pact on this. I therefore demand that the EBRD Act be broken down immediately, and as long as this untenable situation persists, I accuse the current government of Hungary of the destruction of tens of thousands, the eviction of another thousand, the destruction of families, the expulsion of family members abroad, and I promise them that we will not leave this government alone until a single Hungarian stands on the side of the road. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-11-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech: Where is the limit of insolence? It's an address. I give you the floor.
u2020-05-11-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Facts are stubborn things. The official figures of the National Employment Service show terrible, terrible processes from Somogya. Unfortunately, the data of March are not yet available, so the data of March show that there are as many unemployed people in this county as there are in the two million-million-dollar Budapest or in the region of West-Hungary, where three counties are occupied by one million people. And if we look at these March figures, which also show how much the number of job seekers has increased compared to the previous month, we can see that this is 1893 people. There are therefore four regions in Hungary that have been created by three counties, where we have smaller, lower numbers, and people who live there do not understand why the government does not pay more attention to this county, which has been crippled or crippled, and which has become the periphery of Hungary, Somogyia, which is especially the southern part of Lake Balaton, because as we go south, we leave the shore of Lake Balaton, we leave the level of Kaposvár, and we see that the number of jobseekers in the district of Barcsi, Nagyatádi and Csurgó, which is inhabited by 60 thousand people, is more than 5,000. This means that every seventh person in the active-age population is unemployed, and I repeat: this does not include the outbreak of the epidemic, there is no more horrifying series of April data, according to prognosis, which we expect, because the social horror that unfolds in front of our eyes calls for intervention; for government intervention, because people there do not understand that if there is money, there are billions of billions of government propaganda, posters, there is money for Ráchel Orbán's circle of friends, and there is already 5 billion forints for tourism advice, and there is money for the Hungarian state to take out a huge loan from China, and from this project here I would refer to the mad project of Budapest-Belgrád railway, which never returns, to the upper road.
u2020-05-11-200	Congressman, I'd like to ask you to choose your words. Be kind to choose your words.
u2020-05-11-201	...why don't you...
u2020-05-11-202	Be kind to choose your words, I'll give you another sign. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: What was wrong?]]
u2020-05-11-203	...why isn't there any government attention? People who live there are used to not getting help. But it does go beyond the limits of brazenness, even taking away what they have. And here comes the essential point of my speech. A very, very outrageous story of the compensation run ended there in South Somogy, because the former residual areas assigned for nature conservation purposes, which were not in private hands, are now going to the state. They will be brought to the state, and for this normal compensation, I am sorry about the Barcs production cooperative, the former Red Star, that was the name of the former members of the Production Association, and the Hungarian State refuses to pay normal compensation to their heirs. On a golden crown, 50 thousand forints would be paid today for these areas; it is about 1,500 hectares of forest land, Drava coast, in fact a jungle. It wasn't assigned to nature conservation for a reason at the time. There wouldn't be any problem with expropriation. The people who live there, this thousand people, this thousand families have been waiting 25 years for the state to take this, but they are also paid on a normal market basis. That's not gonna happen. 100-150 thousand forints per hectare will be given to the people of Barcs, Barcs, Barcs, while the Hungarian state has happened to the large owner of thousands of hectares and, by the way, South Somogyi when he bought his undivided joint property, then on a golden crown, Mr. President, now pay attention: 810 thousand forints. So not 50,000 per golden crown, like the natives in Barcson and Barcs, but 810 thousand forints per hectare and 2.8 million forints per hectare! Where's the truth? ! Where's the limit of insolence? ! the people of Barcs and Barcs are asking the question. That's the answer to that. Thank you. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the same place.]]
u2020-05-11-204	Dear Parliament, To speak after the agenda, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik Group:
u2020-05-11-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If the virus appears in the slums, it will be terrible. This was said by a 41 - year - old father, a man of Roma origin, who raises four children in a gypsy colony. They may be in one of the most vulnerable situations now, when hygiene standards cannot always be met when they suffer from inadequate means of introducing digital education. And you're telling them with posters to save the economy. They've announced an economic defense plan. They did so while not thinking about people who struggled for daily food from casual work, who were the most vulnerable; these people who were underqualified, who had every challenge; every day is a new challenge. I spoke here in Parliament on 31 March on the issue of Roma self-governments, when János Agócs, President of the National Roma Municipality, made a misleading statement, who said in a statement that the local Roma authorities should buy food packages and detergents for those in need. It wouldn't be a problem for the purpose, but you didn't adapt the legislation to this, it was basically a statement against the law. That's when I asked them to do something to shape the legislation or help these local governments to help those 41-year-old family fathers and others like them to make it easier for them to get through the virus situation. [[14.50]] More than a million people live in extreme poverty in Hungary, and 300,000 of our countrymen live in Roma settlements, the ghettos. This should also be taken into account when you spend billions, for example, for the re-enactment of sailing ports in Balaton or advice on how to deal with this epidemic, how to start the economy. Indeed, there are people who have a problem with charging the electric clock, and these people need work, not public work, and not military work, but one where they are valued, because there are many people who want to work in a workplace where they are not an inspection, but respect. Everyone who wants to live with it has a right to do so. I respectfully ask you to finally address this problem. I looked at the website of the National Roma Municipality, where I was happy to read that two weeks ago, Mr Agócs met Minister Palkovics, precisely to help their fellow Roma countrymen who have lost their jobs to find jobs as soon as possible. It was said that the negotiations would begin in a few days, yes, the preparations. Every day, our countrymen live in terrible conditions. We don't have time here to prepare an agreement for weeks, and we're gonna drag this thing over and over for months, but we need to provide real help to everyone, and we really need to get to the point where we're not burying our heads in the sand, but we're also dealing with these problems. There is very little mention of this in this House, even though there is a Roma minority advocate. I was really looking forward to him speaking on this subject, and even in a post- Agenda speech, he said what kind of help the Roma ethnic authorities need to be able to help them directly on the ground, at the level of the settlements, so that they couldn't finally be responsible to the mayors, because they couldn't help either, because they were slowly drawing all the resources away from the local authorities, and they couldn't help without income. The social framework will be exhausted, there will be more and more people in need, which, of course, will raise further social problems. I ask you once again to pay attention to this problem, to deal with it, and if you can finally get to the point where this cooperation agreement is reached, please report it here, within the walls of this House. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-11-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, István Simicskó, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke with the title International Day of Nurses. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say briefly about three important professions. One is the circle of people who guarantee our safety. Such are the police, the soldiers who serve public safety, the freedom to speak here today, and everyone can live, obviously within the framework of an emergency, their everyday life. The other important professions include teachers: kindergarten teachers, teachers, teachers, at any level, but they are willing to do the sacrifice of raising our children and play a significant role in the great goal of what the future generation will be like, what the future Hungary will be like. The third important profession is the vocation of nurses, healers, doctors. And indeed, May 12th, as I gave the title of my speech today, is the International Day of Nurses. Therefore, although a number of comments have already been made in this regard in the hour of immediate questions and answers, I think it is important that we also remember after the agenda and show our respect for their work, that people undertake that if we get into trouble, if we are sick, if our loved ones become sick, if our health goes bad, then they are able to possess and possess the knowledge that they carry the opportunity and chance of healing. Allow me to briefly describe your history of the international day of nurses. In 1853 and 56 and during these three years there was a very serious war, the Crimean war, and it affected almost all the countries of Europe, and a British nurse, Florence Nightingale, recruited volunteer nurses and set up a nursing school. This was a very important thing, because in fact, seeing the wounded, the wounded, the people in distress, soldiers and civilians, they tried to help and ease their pain. I'd like to go back a little earlier, and Saint Kamill was born on May 25, 1550, and his father gave him a soldier, and fought against the Ottoman-Turkish conquests, suffered injury, and was hospitalized at St. James' Hospital in Rome. He came in with a small wound, but then he couldn't leave the hospital, because his illness had changed to such a degree, but he himself realized how important it is to care for the wounded, how important it is to have the knowledge that nurses and doctors already had, and this is the intention they are trying to help people in trouble. That's why he founded the Society of Sick Services himself, which, by the way, can also be described as the predecessor of the Red Cross. In 1746 he was made holy for this act. He left behind a very beautiful and wise thought in his activity, and this is what he says: to think good, to speak good, to do good; to enter and to go to heaven through the mercy of God through these three things. That's how he became the patron saint of hospitals, patients, and dying people. Another historic step, the next leap, was the Battle of Solferin, which took place in 1859, and Henry Dunan, who saw the incredible suffering, began to lay the foundations of the Red Cross almost a few years later. Since 1863, we have been counting on the existence of the Red Cross, and it is respectable that this process has started in Hungary as soon as the Hungarian Red Cross was established, and since then, since the change of regime, and obviously on the church line, very many relief organizations and charity services have been established in Hungary. The Ecumenical Aid Organization in 1991, the Catholic Charity, the Baptist Charity Service, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, to name only a few, all do excellent work for the people in need. The nursing profession, as it was said in the past, "Let us have the will, to seek out suffering, and to alleviate it. So helping you in trouble, in emergency, as always in history, in the known history of mankind always shows you who you really are. Anyone who is able to practice professionally to help those in distress, the wounded, the sick, has a respectable profession. We therefore pay tribute to them on the occasion of the International Nurse Day. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-11-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech, which has been on the free market for 30 years in the county of Vas. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The history of our country is XX. In the century, he brought trials that have put several generations to the test. As it happened with the country, it fell with the smaller regions. In the case of my narrower Patria, Vas county, there are also all the challenges, tragedies, fate-changing events that have determined our history. The mementos of this are also the memorials of World War I in the smallest Iron settlements. This is what the Western border, which cut our county apart through Trianon, warns us. So it was during World War II and the horrors of the Holocaust, and thus during the revolution and war of freedom in 56 against the Communist dictatorship. Dear House, According to our recently adopted declaration, the National Assembly will respectfully remember the formation of the first free representative parliament on 2 May 1990 following the loss of state self-determination on 19 March 1944, which is the beginning of the new democracy and constitutional order of our country according to our Fundamental Law. Our declaration bows to all Hungarians who have done so by working and caring for their families for the freedom and survival of the nation. Allow me, in connection with the 30th anniversary, to pay tribute to all those who have done their duty in the same way in Vas County. [[15.00]] Between 1944 and 1990, there were many examples of stability and exemplary patriotism in Vas County. Their sacrifice also contributed to the struggle with which the nation sought to regain its freedom. Dear Parliament, The declaration also shows what the Communists have done to this country in four decades. From the beginning, the Vasians have shown what they think of them. If you look at the iron numbers, you can see that they are among the counties where the Communists reached the smallest support in the elections of 45 and 47. In 56 as well as the county seat and cities, many smaller settlements moved to regain our independence. Retribution has caught up with many participants. In the 1980s, the opposition was increasingly organised locally. In 88 and 89 local organizations of opposition parties were established in Szombathely. In the county seat there was an opposition round table, the opposition had a newspaper called the Hungarian West. They protested against the labour force and organized a joint memorial on 15 March. In the spirit of national integration, during the events in Romania in 1989, many started collecting and launching relief shipments from all over the county to Transylvania. In 90, during the parliamentary elections, many people felt it was important to express their hopes with their votes. In addition to recalling political events, Hungarians who worked from Kőszeg to Jánosháza, from Celldömölk to Szentgotthárd should not be forgotten to care for their families and to do for tomorrow. They are the heroes of everyday life, who have contributed to the survival of the country with their talents and diligence, raising their children. Thank you, therefore, to all those who, with their own standing and participation in Vas county, have done much to get Hungary to the point of forming the first freely elected Parliament. However, the series of challenges did not end, as the post-communist era threatened with the country's reslip and external dependence. We were able to eliminate this threat together, and in 2012 we were able to adopt our Fundamental Law. We Hungarians today, including the Vas County people, have been working to build Hungary on its own axis, living in Széchenyi's words. The joint action against the 30th anniversary of the virus has shown people the strength of unity. Let us also take care of this solidarity for the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-11-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. László Hajdu, DK, has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-11-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, After ten years in government speeches, we always listen to the fact that the municipalities that have been bled out in the last eight years and the last eight years, as well as the consolidation of HUF 1300 billion, have been described from the destroyed municipalities that have been indebted by the previous government. I have to say that we've heard it hundreds of times in this cycle, it's part of communication, it's polished, and it's always a panel for everyone, it can be said. I would like to say a few words in these five minutes about this consolidation, given that I am elected mayor in five cycles and I have been a part of this period, and of course I know the experience of this consolidation, so I know that this was not quite the way it was used to be, en bloc to the opposition on this side, even after ten years of governance, that the previous eight years have ruined the municipalities. Let's look at the facts. KSH accounts for 3173 municipalities, and it is indeed 1360 billion forints with which the municipalities were consolidated. However, there is no mention of what has been consolidated. Debt and what kind of debt, operating debt, development credit, or maybe a foreign currency bond? It is never mentioned how this 1,300 billion came together for consolidation. That's what I want to talk to you about. Budget 13 was the one in which the process of this consolidation was adopted and implemented over several years. I think that anyone who took out a loan for development had such a loan from my municipality in my constituency, this is Budapest XV. district, our credit was a type of credit that involved bank control, collateral and regular payment of details, and we actually hired it because European Union funds needed self-esteem, and it was used to fund this self-esteem. So it wasn't for operation, wasting, living, but for development, energy efficiency, panel program, because at the time there were such panel programs. Many municipalities could and did do so, but they were not examined. When I'm just being slammed for debt, no one tells me that 20 percent of this is possible if it's operational-type, so-called indebtedness, let's say, for financing reasons, but it's simply that the municipalities couldn't obtain additional resources because the banks examined its financial position, solvency and whether its liquidity would allow it. So those withdrawals didn't happen so we could just throw them away. Given that we have listened to 1300 billion many times, let us also talk about this because it is not mentioned that the large debtors, with the exception of Budapest, are the Fidesz majority municipalities. With the exception of small villages, 89 percent of all debts, this 1300 billion, were produced by 190 municipalities. One hundred and eighty-nine, so it's not the collapse of the entire municipal system, and all the others had one or two million debts. There are records in this description, some who owed 200,000 forints, they also consolidated it as a debt. So these are ridiculous situations. At the same time, the municipalities are seriously paying for this, as this is the basis for nationalising public education, public education, because they are unable to provide this, nationalise hospitals, although there was something about hospitals being in a major financing problem with the previous government, but they also stayed, because they still have debt and credit. I do not think it is mentioned that the fact that there was a campaign against the consolidation programme of the former government is also stalled behind this loan, and that it was almost as a campaign that some municipalities took on loans. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-11-212	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group, also spoke after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2020-05-11-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It's a tragedy for our little country that the nice leader of the illiberal system is dying for his precious hobbies. It is especially tragic that he also loves people who also love expensive hobbies. Thus, the Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén and the Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács, located in Debrecen, spends money on his hobbies. Last year alone, we spent HUF 3 billion preparing the World Hunting Exhibition in 2021. But it doesn't seem to be enough, so perhaps the government decided to redeploy another HUF 1.6 billion from this year's budget, in the midst of the Covid epidemic. [[15.10]] But this is not the only government move that will open the knife in the pockets of Hungarian people, since it has just been found that Lőrinc Mészáros has only won hundreds of millions of HUF public procurement in the shadow of the epidemic in the last few days. It is not because he is so talented or an economic genius, who, less than ten years ago, set a flame for people on the road, but because he is now the Prime Minister's two-legged piggy bank. But it could continue to be an endless series of outrageous events in which the current political, government, and fidesz elite are spreading public money even now, in the midst of the world socio-economic crisis that has not been seen for a hundred years, as if there were no tomorrow. And they do so when hundreds of thousands of people, Hungarian workers, are on the street, and the Hungarian economy is apparently on the ground, and the masses of young people and families are losing their existing existence, and unfortunately, there are many people who are unable to afford even the cost of their rented apartments. We must be aware that public money cannot be spent uncounted on useless things without paying the price at the end of it. Therefore, with hundreds of austerity measures, it has become the municipalities that the government has put new burdens on their shoulders in recent months and has not dealt with the disastrous consequences that are legally occurring. Here's Debrecen, for example. Just a few days ago, the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen was standing in front of the cameras, and I believe that at least I think that the order of the Habony propaganda factory might prove that there are some municipalities that can handle this crisis well. But what came out of this press conference was that all the efforts of the staff and the mayor's loyalty to Orbán were too little to allow the press conference to end the victory report to be unwittingly covered with some kind of government yet clearly decoded indictment. Because what did the mayor of Debrecen say? We now believe and consider that the city's budget needs to be adjusted by about 3 billion dollars. This is mainly due to the loss of tax revenues and other revenue losses. In other words, just three months after the adoption of the budget of the city, the hole of more than HUF 3.6 billion is, in fact, even the mayor's view of government withdrawal rather than the consequences of the crisis or the epidemic. And while Debrecen is the second largest city in the country, we can now feel that the city is becoming more and more difficult. The BMW announces on May 6 to suspend the construction of its Debrecen factory, and I must add, it is feared that they are only the first domino in this line. The city can thus not only give up the expected tax revenues and the creation of thousands of new jobs, because, for example, scandals surrounded it, in fact, the existence of an international school planted by the Prime Minister could, to my knowledge, be put at risk, in terms of its operation, belongs to a school financed from the city's budget of at least HUF 800 million, the construction of which is still justified by the introduction of the BMW plant. And we know very well that the crisis is not yet over, unfortunately the best is still ahead of us. The mayor of the city of Debrecen is clearly the disciplined politician of Fidesz, and he doesn't complain in front of the cameras or behind the cameras because he can't complain. But I can do that. And I have to say, it's enough that the municipalities are being sabotaged by the government of Orbán to throw the resources they've taken away away from them into the stupid hobbies of the Prime Minister's buddies and fatten the oligarchs. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-11-214	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 18 May 2020. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
