u2020-12-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Mr Secretary of State, Dear House, The 26th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the meeting will be Attila Móring József and László Varga. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2019 the Parliament adopted a resolution declaring its respect for the memory of the heroes and victims of the Uprising in Timisoara, which began on 15 December 1989 and was completed in the following days. Thirty-one years ago, hundreds of Hungarian and Romanian freedom-loving citizens in Timisoara tried to prevent the eviction of the Reformed pastor László Tőkés, who raised his voice because of human rights violations and village destruction. When the eviction took place and the pastor was deported to a small village in Silgya, the protest became a mass honor against the Communist regime of Ceaușescu. The army's heavily armed soldiers shot into the crowd, but this only further stimulated the insurgents' determination, and most of the city was in the hands of the protesters in a few days. The news of the protests in Timisoara and the brutal action of the dictatorship quickly spread throughout Romania and the world. Revolutionary movements began throughout the country, demanding the fall of the hateful dictatorship everywhere. Ceaușescu called a useless rally to Bucharest on 21 December to try to keep the crowd quiet with promises, and the events were unstoppable. The next day, the armpower sided with the rebels, and the revolution swept away the dictatorship. The fleeing Ceaușescu couple were captured and sentenced to death on 25 December. Victory has become indisputable, true, and for this victory more than a thousand have sacrificed their lives in the course of the revolution. Now we remember them. Dear Parliament, Our pre-meeting speeches will follow. To speak before the agenda, Mr Tamás Mellar, Member of the Group of Dialogue, spoke with the title: "On Current Affairs." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, On 8 December, Minister Mihály Varga, at the Economic Commission hearing, answered his representatives' questions as to why a supplementary budget for 2021 had not been submitted, that he did not consider that a supplementary budget was necessary, and that there was nothing on the agenda for submitting a supplementary budget. As you know, you may recall that in July 2020 we adopted the budget for 2021, in which the government calculated an economic growth of 4.8 per cent and planned a deficit of 2.9 per cent. This plan was built on the 2020 macro-track, where it was assumed that there would be a 3 per cent decline in 2020 and a 3 per cent government deficit. Now, when there are barely two weeks of the year, I think it is quite clear that the economic downturn will be much larger, it could reach 7-8 percent, and therefore obviously from next year's growth rate, which was 4.8 percent in the plan, only 3-3.5% will be possible. It is also clear that the 3 percent government deficit will certainly not be met this year, but rather it will be 8-9 percent. I would like to draw your attention now to the fact that I did not produce these numbers, I did not say so, but the Ministry of Finance has made similar forecasts for this year. Consequently, it is now possible to see that nominal GDP will be about HUF 2000-2500 billion lower than what was planned, and it also follows that there will be a deficit decline of HUF 1000-1300 billion in public finances. If we add to this the inter-annual commitments made by the government, for example, on the reduced VAT of the new apartments of 5% and the wage increase promised to doctors, then this means that next year there will be a very realistic deficit of 7-8 percent in public finances. This value is obviously very, very far from the 2.9 per cent plan in the 2021 budget. Therefore, it can be concluded that it would have been justified for the government to submit the additional budget as soon as possible, since it is difficult to start the next year under such conditions. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I am not talking about, and I am not condemning the government for not seeing the extent of the decline in spring 2020, because no one could have seen that, no doubt, it is true, we did not know what a crisis would be, what it would be like. There's nothing wrong with that. The problem is that the government is idle and refuses to act now, when it is apparent that things have turned out quite differently than they had planned. Similarly, the crisis management programme was inactive in the spring of 2020 and also in the autumn of 2020. By the way, the fact that this inactivity, idleness, this constant delay is not an individual case, but a systemic one at the NER government, is that Viktor Orbán has established a monolithic power system whose operation depends on his personal orders. This is obviously broadly tolerated in a normal period, which is largely going away, as far as interventions are concerned, which is tolerable, but when there is an exceptional situation, when there is a crisis, this type of overcentralized mode of operation is working with very, very poor efficiency. This is also due to the fact that there is still no additional budget for next year, although the macro numbers have evolved in a very different way than previously planned. Obviously, the result will be that Hungarian families and defenseless small people will suffer, and they will see much more damage to it than people close to NER. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[9.10]]
u2020-12-15-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's a little difficult to understand your thinking, because, if I understand correctly, you're not criticizing the government's mismanagement of the epidemic, mistreating the economic crisis, but criticizing why the additional budget for the 21st century is no longer here. And when we're making an additional budget, the problem is why the government's making a replacement budget, and we've told them in advance that it's like that and otherwise. Now that you can't hurt what kind of budgetary and economic decisions the government is making, you're trying to attack the government by not changing the budget of 21 in mid-December 2020. Honourable Congressman, You know that, as you said in your speech, there is a crisis, a pandemic, every country in the world, in Europe, is struggling to deal with the epidemic, how it treats it from a health point of view and how it deals with it in terms of dealing with economic downturns and economic difficulties. Hungary is not treating it worse, perhaps even a little better than other countries. If we compare the expected decline in GDP in the EU countries, such as the 2020 budget, we can see that this is expected to reach 6 percent in Hungary. I would like to point out that we have already seen a 3 percent decline in the preparation of the convergence programme, and this is indeed going to be bigger, with about 6-6.5% expected. As far as the deficit is concerned, yes, due to extraordinary expenditure, the budget deficit may be above 8 per cent by 2020, but it is also not unique, as the European Union average is also above 8 per cent, 8.3 per cent and the Visegrád deficit is expected to be 8.2 per cent, but the other EU countries are planning a similar deficit. I think that, in such a situation, it is important that economic fundamentals are strong, that the budget's ability to bear a burden is secure, that the budget's financing capacity does not cause damage to public debt and to the general public, and that this should not be seen as a burden on the population by tax increases. And that is the case: despite the economic difficulty, we are trying to maintain the balance by reducing the tax, and the population and businesses are in no way burdened by the burden of these extra expenditures. This is also recognised, as credit rating agencies have also rated Hungary this year, and the European Union, and Hungary, based on the OECD survey, is also in place in the world in terms of tax reductions. There is no need to worry about the budget for 2021. The budget of 2021, when the time comes, will be amended by the government, will be submitted to Parliament. The most important thing is that the government can provide expenditure on the crisis both in 2020 and 2021. I think that this is guaranteed in all respects both this year and next year. In addition, if we continue to look at the structure of the debt, this will not deteriorate during the crisis, as the share of public sovereign debt purchases has increased significantly in Hungary over the past period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What's more important? Mr Demeter, on behalf of the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-12-15-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 13 December, the number of infected people identified increased by 4153, and 181 Hungarians died. On 14 December, 3470 new Hungarian citizens were exposed to the coronal virus infection, thus increasing the number of infected people identified in Hungary to 283,870, with 165 deceased, thus increasing the number of deaths to 7130. These are the tragic facts about the corona virus epidemic. And as I have already mentioned in the walls of this House, every time we remember that each number means a family father, a mother, a grandparent, a child. While the number of diseases increases relentlessly and drastically, with the increase in personal and family tragedies, the government is busy organizing hundreds of billions of taxpayers to fidesz private foundations, which is the privatisation of public money before the 2022 elections. They don't skimp on public money: there's a sailing port, MOL stock, castle, hotel, ex-worker base, and obviously the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office could tell you a lot more about it. Just so you remember, I would like to repeat here once again that, as soon as we have the opportunity, we will take back people's money from both the stooges and these fidest private foundations, and we will hold everyone involved in the privatisation of public money accountable. Instead of the government whining about not being able to place the Prime Minister's ideas and writings in the international press, perhaps he should be more concerned with the fight against the epidemic. But that's not what you're doing, because most of your time is being distracted from the tragic domestic coronal virus epidemic, which has evolved and is a distraction from failed government crisis management. Meanwhile, the misguided government economic policy which again fills multi-enterprises with money and national capital banks, while blowing down small and medium-sized businesses in Hungary. And, of course, they're trying to make the situation look like it's a success. In this context, the Prime Minister claims that he defended the Hungarians' money. Then it certainly should not be a problem to report here every month the spending of this money in Parliament, because it is important for people to know what money is being spent from the recovery fund. I very much hope that we do not have to submit a large number of public-interest data requests on these matters; of course, if they do not report, we will do so. But it's not even gonna end up in the pockets of national capitalists, is it? You're not going to get rich again, are you, once again reminding me, in the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, you've released 850 people, and you've rewarded this with nearly 18 billion forints? It's not even gonna be the Fidesz private foundations, is it, continuing to privatize public money, which was created in a panic about a year and a half before the election? However, there would be plenty of room for this money for the Hungarian people, for those workers who have been laid off from their jobs, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that suffer this crisis extremely. The government can't always point a finger at someone or some social group when, in a difficult situation, they have to take responsibility for their decisions. The responsible government shall be responsible for the implementation of Article XIX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A revolution and a struggle for freedom created the historical foundation for the Hungarian government to take political and moral responsibility for its actions and omissions before the Hungarian nation. Only national self-esteem now requires that all decisions are merely a professional decision on the part of the operational tribe, because as members of the government, you all share the responsibility and the responsibility of the Prime Minister is the same, because they are all political decisions without exception, and they will have to be able to account for these decisions and omissions. It is clear that in crisis management you could base your confidence on the responsibility and sacrifice of the Hungarian people, only that you have betrayed your confidence in the hypocrisy that has been proven publicly by the Szájer case, with the insecurities that Kaleta represents by hiding pedophilia and the immeasurable urination. [[9.20]] In the meantime, they leave the Hungarian people on the side of the road and continue to fill their minions' pockets. And I'm sure you're enjoying it, yes, you're in trouble. In view of all this, the question rightly arises: what is more important to you [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Humans or fear of losing power? Prepare to be accounted for. Merry Christmas. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks. Németh Szilárd István: The noble moments of waiting!]]
u2020-12-15-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, [[His mic's starting to buzz.]] There's a discreet charm when...
u2020-12-15-8	Something's wrong, Mr. Secretary, with your microphone. [[The Secretary of State's mic is buzzing again.]] Give me a hand mike. Please restore time. [[They put a hand microphone in front of the Secretary of State.]] Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-12-15-9	Thank you very much for your patience. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, So, there is a discreet charm of referring from the left to the revolution and freedom fight of 1848-49, and the labs are trying to teach us patriotism and sovereignty, honourable Member. You may recall the demand that , in charge of the government of Pest. Nor did they demand in 1848-49 exactly what you now refer to as saying what we need in Vienna, but they wanted their own responsible government, their own national bank, their own army, an independent and strong Hungary in 1848-49, honourable Member. That's why they fought, by other means, in a different era than what we're doing right now. Even then, there were those who were waiting for the decision of the governor's council, who defended the governor's council, who were trying to serve them. Today we have this political family or political attitude on the left side of the parliamentary horseshoe in Hungary. We follow those of whom public spaces are named in Hungary, from whom streets are named, who have statues, who have always fought for Hungarian independence and freedom, and we do not follow those of you who sometimes wanted to do the will of the governor's council, sometimes of any body of the Soviet Communist Party in Hungary. That's the difference. There are such things in every era, and so do they. You are politicalizing in the Soros galaxy, following the kind of politics, saying what George Soros says. Although there is now a slight contradiction in the force, because George Soros has distributed everyone from Angela Merkel to all the European Heads of Government, how dare they decide according to the will of Viktor Orbán and the Polish Prime Minister in Brussels, while you say what a defeat Hungary has suffered; it is precisely your owner who says the opposite. Even your owner's most direct newspaper, 444 at home, acknowledged that Hungary and Poland had achieved what they wanted, and we finally won in Brussels. You seem to have gotten the information too late, which is why it's bothering you in the Soros galaxy. With regard to the effectiveness of defence, you know that we are seeing the situation in the world every day. In many places in the world, hospitals can no longer care for patients, care for patients in hospital parking lots, hospital dining rooms, hotel rooms, and breathe in their own car, because there are not enough equipment, there are not enough beds, there are not enough doctors in hospitals. In Hungary, thank God, such scenes have not happened so far, all patients are treated at the hospital because there are enough hospital beds, there are enough doctors and there are enough ventilators. You have attacked everything from this, attacked hospitals, attacked the purchase of ventilators, attacked the defence system, and there is a defence system in Hungary that, if you look at the data of the infected or the proportion of people who have died unfortunately per million inhabitants, is about the same as the EU average. Compared to this, you in Parliament always say the opposite, you cannot be proud of Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses. As regards the question of public funds and trust funds, I reject, on the one hand, the fact that you are here regularly trying to bring the Secretary of State into the news, while taking responsibility for a talent management programme that operates within a fully legal framework, even before he became State Secretary, even when he is a State Secretary, and when none of us will become State Secretary, I think he will continue to do so. But why did the government set up trust funds, and what does it mean when you say they're gonna take that money away from the trust fund? This means that you will rob some of the Hungarian universities, you will take away most of the financial opportunities of Hungarian research and development, because the Hungarian government has shares in its possession. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Do you want to marry him? Congratulations.]] Common Equity Tier 1 instruments [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and spending part of the documents proving the ownership of different companies and their profits and profits not in the budget itself, honourable Member, but in investing in the future, universities and research and development. You say that if they come to power, they will take away the future of Hungary again, for the many times in Hungarian history, from the Republic of the Council to today. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] In order to rob Hungarian universities, rob Hungarian talent programs, they will take away the funds that this government has given them in the long term. Because for universities and talent centers like Mathias Corvinus College, it is important to be able to plan in the long term, because, you know, colleges don't change overnight, they need serious legal guarantees and serious financial bases. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] We strive for Hungary to be a leading country in many areas by 2030, not only in Europe but also in the world. This requires predictable farming at universities and high financial resources, much higher than at present. That is why we have placed the shares, the bonds in these foundations, which you will take away according to your threat, and that is how they will take away Hungary's future. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Because we can only achieve even better economic performance if Hungary becomes world leader in many areas through universities, through research and development. The Hungarian left is the obstacle to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Varju, Member of the DK Group, spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-11	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to begin by saying that Mr Tállai, in his reply to my fellow Member, said that there was a 3 per cent scenario and that there is a 6 per cent economic downturn. Dear Secretary of State, If you need us to shed light on what the problem is: your spring planning also indicated that there could be a 7 percent economic downturn. If I had been prepared accordingly and accordingly helped the economic operators to make it less than possible, then there would be no obvious situation, as is the case now, that because of deteriorating numbers and performance, yes, a new budget is needed, because what was planned earlier today is a cheese wrap, it is not good enough for anything, because otherwise it does not help people. The Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget are in trouble. The government has announced that you have said that the deficit is more than ten times what it is expected, because, I add, due to the irregular spending of your buddy, European resources are stuck. In their panic, they began to spend money, for which they took out foreign exchange loans. We now know that Mr Mihály Varga says that he does not need it next year, that this year he has been saved and that he will continue spending accordingly. There is only one problem, Mr State Secretary: only families and small and medium-sized enterprises did not have one. He goes out, but they didn't get any of it. Meanwhile, the Minister says that the Hungarian government debt is stable. Well, you could say we could accept this solution or this sentence from him, because the sovereign debt they fought ten years ago is exactly the same as it was ten years ago. In the meantime, the savings of pensions, 3000 billion forints, were taken from pensioners as a restriction. And there are many other positive circumstances compared to what they have achieved as a performance, what we have here in the economy, that they cannot help small businesses or families. The budget that was dreamed of by 2021 is worth nothing. The deficit is under-planned, inflation and economic performance reduction are not really known, expected on the basis of figures, and cannot be planned. They're running from the new budget. When we could have talked about this yesterday at the Committee on Budgets, the very brave Members did not even dare to come to the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, where we should have faced all the things we were talking about here. Of course, people are outraged by the luxuries that appear at the Hungarian National Bank, and whether they are spending or not, they are here before us, the night decisions you make. The problem is so bad, Mr. Secretary, they won't even give teachers the allowance they promised. Well, that's how much you've got and got! [[9.30]] The scale of the economic crisis caused by the epidemic and which could not be dealt with by the Orbán government is indicated, unemployment is there, and, by the way, let's just look at the increase in food prices: everything that has increased is above 10%. I understand that those who have received large capital in the past period by creating the Hungarian bourgeoisie are not bothered by this, but those who are small pensioners, however, more so, who have been abandoned. Less and less goods can go into the basket, more poverty, more hunger, and more and more elderly people are in real danger. If the deficit were to rise while the government would give a large part of the lost wages to workers or families, we might actually understand that, but there is no such thing, there is no salary supplement, Mr. Secretary of State. What you're saying is that it's a hoax, and it's for some companies and their buddies, no one else. Bitterness and hopelessness are growing. I think that in this situation there is no other option, no other way to change: this government must go, you have failed, your economic performance is equal to zero. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-12-15-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, For practically ten years, the Fidesz faction has been listening to the government fail. I would just like to say one thing not first: then the Hungarian electorate decides who will be honored with their trust, and they have already awarded their trust to the right-wing government or Fidesz-KDNP three times. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So they'll decide in 2022. Now that I'm trying to clean up a little bit in your wide-ranging speech, if I understand correctly, you've dealt with two main issues: the epidemic and the protection of jobs. Allow me... [[László Varju intervenes: The budget, Mr Secretary of State.]] Budget [[László Varju intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[László Varju intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] ... (László Varju intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. ) Allow me to go through with it. I understand you're tense, I understand your situation, but I've been listening to you. So if you look at the budgets, you will see that there are two main aspects, the protection of people's lives and the protection of jobs, and that it is in vain expected in a vote and in a vote a year and a half ago, in a budget vote to take into account the epidemic that was completely unknown at the time. So it's not in Hungary. [[László Varju and Dr. Tamás Mellar intervene.]] not in Hungary, but in all European countries, honourable Members, we had to overwrite the plans in all European countries, and we have two main objectives: the protection of human life and the protection of jobs. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Now, as for the plague, the plague... [[László Varju intervenes.]]
u2020-12-15-14	Congressman Varju! [[László Varju: Sorry!]] Sorry, the Secretary of State has the floor. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: At least you know when the budget was adopted! A statement from the opposition.]]
u2020-12-15-15	So I suggest that you look at the main figures in the budget, and you will see that both of the main objectives have a basis of thousands of billions, and that is why the amendments are made. [[László Varju intervenes.]] [[László Varju intervenes.]] Now, as far as the specifics are concerned, because I understand that you want to debate budgetary structure issues, but we have a different approach, let us take a look at the concrete measures. A lot of decisions have been made and budgetary resources go to these: wage support for jobs, wage support for job creation, targeted subsidies for companies, reduction of employers' taxes are not only temporary tax reductions, but also the employer's tax reduction that came into force from 1 July and which is a significant help for businesses not only during the epidemic but also in the period beyond the epidemic, a credit moratorium. From Jobbik to Dialogue, virtually a lot of people have addressed the issue of loans, evictions, foreign exchange loans, this is a serious legacy. So it doesn't matter if there's a credit moratorium or not in this difficult situation. If it were up to you, it wouldn't be a credit moratorium, it would be foreign currency loans to this day. This also has a budgetary dimension, honourable Member. (László Varju intervenes.) And with these measures, which are in your budget of criticism [[László Varju intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] 1.4 million jobs have been protected. This is also the reason why, although the epidemic is still causing damage to the Hungarian economy, Hungary is still the lowest, with one of the lowest unemployment rates. The EU average is 8 per cent, and half of it is silently added that in your time it was 12 per cent, and all by having a Member State with 16 per cent unemployment. So please add this when the Hungarian budget is criticised. The number of registered job seekers has fallen below 300,000, with a significant decrease compared to summer months. By comparison again: in 2010 the number of job seekers was 583 thousand per year on average, so 300 thousand and 583,000, but so that at the beginning of the year, in 2010 the self-classified value exceeded 700 thousand at the beginning of the year. So I would hope a little more caution from you when referring to unemployment data, because that is a big difference and it shows the gap between left-wing and right-wing disease management and crisis management. And I'll tell you why, and that's what you'll see in the budget figures: the main reason is that as soon as it's too bad, you're going to get to the combo of cuts and tax increases. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Look, honourable Member, I really understand that you are tense, look at the left-wing municipalities. Such tax increases, such tax increases, parking fees increase, then wage increases, dumping people out of their apartments, their rentals. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And here they're calling the government to account for it. On the other hand, the right-wing government reduces burdens, not increases, but reduces, even during a crisis. So I think that Hungarians can compare the two types of crisis management approach very well: right-wing politics will turn into protected jobs, and left-wing people will lose them. That is reason enough not to ask you for advice in the area of crisis management. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr Tamás Harangozó, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Attila Móring József takes his place in the notary seat.]]
u2020-12-15-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Towards the end of the year, at the last parliamentary meetings, it is indeed worth considering what really happened here in the House, what the government has done and what measures it has had to take, what it has not done in the past. It says much that today and tomorrow the Hungarian Parliament will decide on a total of 42 laws, including urgent and urgent issues such as the electoral law that is essential for the protection of epidemics, the circumstances of which are clearly remembered by the whole country and submitted once again without consultation and political consensus, but fortunately, on the proposal of János Volner, the new spokesperson of Fidesz will certainly vote in it today. Then there will be a vote today on the Szájer post-Christian Fundamental Law, which, in a strange way, will also mark the only rescue family model from here on out in Hungary, I think that the author will think a lot about his work, but instead of systemic theft, there will also be a system of constitutional theft, the concreteization of foundations, state assets in the Foundations; and it is very important for you to suddenly redefine the concept of public money, one of which is an important argument that, for example, Tao money should not be publicly accounted for in the future. It was only until April of this year about HUF 790 billion in public money that was sent to a sports organization or some kind of group of friends. Then, in the past period, during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, 140 billion public funds came to sport, 100 billion forints of public funds for church investments, nearly a thousand billion forints to support a railway line called Budapest-Belgrád with Hungarian budget, i.e. Hungarian taxpayers' money, and it is worth seeing that I didn't list a lot of things here, but here we are talking about a 2000-3000 billion forints of money that didn't come to pass, and I say to the Secretary of State, because really, it is worth drawing conclusions from this. [[9.40]] The 100 percent of the sick money was not available to everyone in the same way, although the Prime Minister argued yesterday; he must have been misinformed or has no idea what the system is in Hungary. We have submitted our bill, and they have not even been willing to put it on the agenda, so that every infected person and every person in the official quarantine will automatically receive the 100 percent allowance for the 10-14 days that the law requires him to stay at home in order to protect the health of other people. They won't spend it on it. They refused to spend 80 percent on the pay supplement, which either Austria or the more normal countries of Central Europe did to keep so many companies off the streets, not so many companies falling in. We couldn't save money for the unemployed. Today, 150,000 people in Hungary are not receiving any care, and you know it. We asked that there should be at least 9 months of unemployment benefit during the crisis and a minimum of 100,000 forints to ensure that families do not starve. They could not press the button to give at least one child 50 thousand forints per child before Christmas; and they could not spend even one third of the money on health during the virus epidemic, as they were able to spend on sports. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the Prime Minister ventured or sank to the point where he said with his own mouth that he was not responsible for the defense and was not responsible for the spread of the virus. Interestingly, on September 18th, on Kossuth Radio, he literally said that the government and the Prime Minister were personally responsible for the defence. Probably the difference between the two is the 7200 dead countrymen and nearly 300,000 have been infected, whose number is the highest, and one of the highest in European comparison, is that you have not done your job honestly in recent months. We wish everyone, every fellow countryman, a merry Christmas, a Hanukkah, and I can tell you that if the Prime Minister believes that the government is not responsible for what is in this country, then we wish them to take care of each other, to take care of themselves, because according to this, whoever has to do it will not take care of them. Thank you for listening.
u2020-12-15-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He mentioned the question of the economic impact of the corona virus epidemic. There is no doubt that the protection of human life and the reduction of negative economic impacts in the fight against the epidemic, while safeguarding human health, are key tasks. We hope, or hoped, that when the epidemic reached our country at the beginning of March, that this will be a national goal, that this is a matter that goes beyond the political logic of the party, and that here in the Hungarian Parliament all elected representatives can be expected to be supported. Unfortunately, this expectation has not been realized; I would like to speak about it later, if I may. It is undoubtedly true, however, that the government must do its job, and here in the speeches before the previous agenda it has been said that we have conducted a budget restructuring of 20 per cent of GDP, amounting to approximately HUF 9000 billion, and a restructuring of economic performance to mitigate the economic impact of the epidemic. As a result, thanks to this action plan, we have already been able to return approximately HUF 6500 billion to the economy, HUF 4300 billion has already been released in the economy, HUF 1200 billion has already been decided by its supporters, and a decision will soon be made on an additional HUF 1000 billion. We announced a credit moratorium, which left 2600 billion HUF for families and businesses. The investment support programmes are around HUF 1000 billion, and we believe in tax reductions in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic, so we believe that the best recipe for reducing taxes and measures in relation to the economic impact of the disease is the tax reduction and the regulations, the regulations that we have created, left more than HUF 400 billion in taxes on businesses and families this year. The overall calculations show that we were able to protect the prospects and opportunities of 1.4 million employees, more than one million Hungarians received training support in the labour market: financial benefits, special credit schemes, specifically wage subsidies, sectoral competitiveness grants, special training courses, new jobs, and the public employment programme were also expanded. The fact that this crisis management mechanism was operational, perhaps a political debate between us, obviously you are attacking it; this is your job as an opposition Member of Parliament, but the numbers are still on our side. If you look at how the Hungarian economy performed in the third quarter, you will see that this is the 11th best performance in the European Union. By the way, compared to the previous quarter, so what is important in the context of recovery from the crisis, we have already achieved 11 percent and more than 11 percent economic growth there, which is the 9th best result in the European Union. We continue to believe, not in restrictions and tax increases, but in that we can protect the work of Hungarian people and ensure the livelihood of Hungarian people through the creation of jobs and investment, so we would like to continue our wage increase program, which we have carried out despite the effects of the coronal virus epidemic. We're gonna start the biggest medical-reimbursement program of all time, rebuild your 13th month's pension, run the biggest home-building program and family-support program of all time. Compared to this, what you have done is that, in fact, false news about Hungary, the operation of the Hungarian Parliament, and then Kamuvideos were manufactured in connection with the control of the epidemic, and no consequences have been made on your side, those politicians are also there, and they did not have to suffer any disadvantage in this matter. The latest news is about bitcoin mining and cigarette smuggling; I am talking about the chairman of the MSZP Ethics Committee. I think that whoever has something to do with their performance and whose policy should be rethinking for the sake of Hungary is you, not us. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! What will Christmas be like on the side of the road? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech before the agenda with a title from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-21	Mr President, Dear House, I understand or understand the desperate attempts made by my fellow members of the Government to explain the certificate. Minister of State said that he believes that the 9th best economic performance in the EU is the 11th, in other comparisons; the production reports have been well edited by the communication panels manufacturers, and then the reality comes to light. [[Nacsa Lawrence: These are facts! Facts!]] When my fellow Member Nacsa calls in during a speech, please also explain, please, also, in terms of, say, hosts, guides, language teachers who, I do so, not always in the case of clicks, but even in the case of clicks, what prospects this government provides. What assistance does it provide for those who are not entitled to any financial benefits as unemployed or job seekers? Now they're quiet. There's no yelling. We are talking about 150,000 Hungarians who are not entitled to any job search assistance in your system. There is no room for these Hungarian people, these social groups, in their purely neoliberal economic policy model. Your strategic partners, the German multi-enterprises, have given or allowed these economic policy instructions, which is why one looks at you with a dull half-smile that you are trying to place yourself here on different left and right-wing axes. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] At the end of 2010, when the Prime Minister received George Soros personally here in this House, was that the right-wing Fidesz era? When did you turn? Where is the right-wing patriot national economic policy, which protects the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneur? There is no such thing, because we do not see the discounts they are given. What we see is that you and Audi enter into a two billion-dollar contract to support the loss of the entire year to the large multi-company, the car manufacturer, the Hungarian microwave and the small. This is your economic policy. [[9.50]] What you should see, as a representative of your right-wing opposition, I constantly confront you with housing cataclysm in Hungary. There is a housing crisis within which some 2.5 million people are affected by housing poverty, and one sixth of the Hungarian citizens affected, now, in these days, when you laugh and complain, one sixth of the Hungarian people affected cannot heat up their homes in winter. This is Hungary at the moment, and in the midst of this housing cataclysm, I do not dispute, I do not want to doubt that you support the newly built property purchases of lucky social groups and rich people in a priority way. I won't argue with you, that's right. But I would also like to say that in parallel with the 13,000 evictions you have assisted [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik... The Jobbik organizes it in the municipalities... you organize it...]] , you can support the construction of newly built apartments in residential parks, only the Hungarian reality is that, while on the side of the road, Hungarian tenants are not paid attention to the masses of young people with the same family goals and the same children's goals, and these citizens were able to expect minimal assistance earlier. With the support of the state's housing savings, they were often able to collect their own share of the CSOK. If the Secretary of State responds, start with what has been replaced after the state aid for the LTP has been lifted. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] What do they recommend for young Hungarians (Dr. Bence Rétvári: CSOK...) who could save on the CSOK part only in a supported form? He won't know what to say. The fact is, at the moment, it is not just the 150,000 job seekers who are not entitled to any benefits. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik is in trouble...]] Some half of the Hungarian families have either suffered a direct loss of income because of the epidemic, or some family member felt it on their skin, and they also have to pay rent under the previous contract, pay bills, raise children. Therefore, it would be necessary without delay from state resources, from a state fund, to a system of rent support where a Hungarian citizen who is in trouble can apply for support on an online platform, by presenting a fair contract, after examining the conditions of earnings. Prevent further home losses; prevent the deprivation of Hungarian children. Therefore, in addition to the need to build flats in bulk, and you are shutting down this, while the vacant housing stock should be used at least partially as a rental house by setting up housing agencies, in addition to launching a housing support system, [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties.]] In addition to the fact that for Hungarian students, if someone rents their apartments, the whole process should be exempt, in addition to the fact that foreign real estate purchases for investment purposes should be subject to a penalty tax which cannot be passed on, we see that you reject them. But in addition to all of this, at least now, in the event of an epidemiological emergency, let's help those who live in apartments, they have to take on their former obligations, they have to pay [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why you didn't vote for the credit moratorium, right?]] But their incomes have run low, and you're not sending any messages to those with lost income. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you vote for the credit moratorium?]] Pull yourselves together, support the better proposal under which [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Now we can temporarily get these people out of trouble. Don't be neoliberal, don't leave any more people on the side of the road. (Applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you vote for the credit moratorium?
u2020-12-15-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás State Secretary responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-12-15-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, we've been able to hear from Jobbik's congressman that Virtigli's left-wing speech, which is what we really expect from you and you. Honourable Congressman, Let us make it clear that Jobbik has finally arrived on the left that the national civilian government believes in the work. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] We believe that we need to protect jobs and promote new jobs and not refocus aid. [[Interventions from the benches of Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was not the question!]] Honourable Congressman, I understand that you have the left... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. I understand, honourable Member, that, in order to comply with your left-wing allies, you must once again push for the fallen economic policy that your allies have achieved during their administration before 2010, but, honourable Member, understand this... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian constantly intervenes.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. I understand, honourable Member, that, in order to comply with your left-wing allies, you must once again push for the fallen economic policy that your allies have achieved during their administration before 2010, but, honourable Member, understand this... (Dániel Z. Karpát constantly intervenes. ) Congressman, I've listened to you. (The President rang.) If you do me the favor of listening to me, we can talk to each other. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Sure, sure! Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's in panic! Gyurcsányi panic... dr. Brenner Koloman: You will become president of Vácon...]]
u2020-12-15-24	Mr. Vice President, Please allow the faction to grant the Secretary of State the opportunity to make a legitimate statement. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: The truth hurts them! Nacsa Lőrinc: He shouts the loudest!]]
u2020-12-15-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, you guys are behind my back yelling at me that they want Vac and Vac cases... so let's talk about Vac. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Interview from Jobbik's benches: Sublet...]] Is there a Vacon? Vácon, you and your allies run the council. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And what happens? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] While you stand up here at the National Assembly and propose an eviction moratorium, the exact opposite of Vacon happens. They evict families, families with children from the municipal residence. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: Zsolt Fehér! That's right! Shame!]] Congressman! Where you are in power, you are harming the Hungarian people and harming the Hungarian families. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Let the lies you're doing here in Parliament be stopped, and, honourable Member, let's begin self-examination. But only in order to [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] I should also like to answer the other questions raised by you, let me begin by saying what kind of support we have provided to the hosts and what kind of support we have provided to the restaurant owners, as you have raised this question. If you look at the Economic Protection Action Plan, look at the government's decisions over the past few years, you will know precisely that we will provide support for this sector, we will provide wage support, we will provide VAT reductions, we will provide contributions and tax reductions, precisely in order to protect their own employees, they will be able to keep jobs, provide jobs and pay their colleagues. Honourable Congressman, You have never supported these measures, but have always attacked them. We ask you to support these government measures so that we can help as many Hungarian families as possible. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw your attention to the fact that Hungary has never had a government that has provided such generous family support. If we are talking about home creation, we can mention the family home creation discount, the CSOK programme, which will be extended from 1 January, we can mention the VAT reduction, we can mention the baby shower support, which can also be used for home creation, we can mention the state support related to the repayment of housing loans, millions of forints will be released to young people affected by home creation with the help of the government. Honourable Congressman, We give Hungarian young people and Hungarian families all the support to get their own homes, but our policy is clear: we think that Hungarian families and Hungarian young people want their own apartments, not rent homes, not to live in someone else's property, but to live in their own apartment. And we believe that, contrary to your left-wing proposal, Hungarian young people should be helped in this, which is what Hungarian families should be helped to get their own apartments. The Hungarian government provides outstanding support for this, both in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth evaluating the decision of last week's EU summit and its consequences. According to our assessment, last week, common sense has won, because Europe has decided that it is impossible to punish Member States on the basis of subjective criteria; and it has decided that in the middle of the epidemiological situation, which is very difficult and seriously affecting the Member States of the European Union, Member States should finally have access to budgetary resources, which will help them to carry out both their duties in relation to health protection and the economy, once the vaccine has finally arrived, they can rebuild it and resuscitate it. This is very important, and we think it's a sensible decision. [[10.00]] But I would like to highlight and draw attention to one more aspect: with this decision, the Hungarian and Polish prime ministers have preserved the decade-long form of European cooperation, which has led to the fact that the European Union has certainly been successful in recent decades, at least before the 2000s. The aim of this European Union cooperation was to help nation states. The European Union institutional system was designed to help nation states, but the nation states were at the heart of European cooperation. Therefore, no European decision has been taken that is contrary to the national interest of one or more Member States. This is the symbol of the veto, and in this interpretation the veto is not just a right that European law provides for Member States, but a symbol of the fact that a European decision cannot be taken contrary to the will of one or more nation states. The fact is that this is of great importance because we can see that this blackmail tool, which the pro-immigration people wanted to suck into the European cooperation system, would have changed this well-functioning system. This is all because, although we have had our debates now, and this has now ended with the European summit, we still have a number of battles ahead of us, because here is the issue of immigration, in which we can see that the positions remain very distant. We are opposed to immigration, we believe that Europe must protect the Christian culture on which the European way of life is based, and there are the pro-immigrationists supported by George Soros, and they claim that the nation state must be overcome and that a multicultural immigrant continent must be turned from Europe. So this difference of opinion and this struggle remain ahead of us, and in this we have taken a very important tool out of the hands of the pro-immigration people when we have not allowed this blackmail instrument to be part of European law. It is also important to stress that the left-wing minework, which the Hungarian left-wing representatives have done from Klára Dobrev to Anna Donáth in recent weeks, has failed. They attacked their own country, ignored the Hungarian national interest, and nevertheless failed, even though they tried to make it look like a success, their master and their own left-wing spiritual moonyards see it this way, from Péter Róna to György Soros to Mária Vásárhelyi. But once again, Hungary won this battle, Hungary won, but this is only a battle, the war continues, because we see that immigration is at the heart of the entire European debate. Here is a migration action plan, which the Commission has already put on the table, in which the pro-immigration people have once again made clear what they really want: to give 34 million immigrants all the rights, to provide housing and to give them the right to vote. The time has come for the left to take a clear position on this issue, to support it or not. We will certainly fight this. We believe that European culture must be protected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to Mr István Hollik's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, last week the European Council was a successful European and Hungarian meeting, with a unanimous agreement on the EU budget for the next period and the recovery mechanism for the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. This is a great success, and once again, I stress to Europe and Hungary, with which we managed to end a political conflict that lasted for several months. If we are trying to reconstruct the story, perhaps not from the beginning, but from an important starting point, we see that in the summer months, at a previous European Council, this agreement has already been reached, an agreement that was acceptable to all EU Member States both from the recovery fund and from the budget for the next period, and then, under the rules of the European Union, the European Parliament should have approved this agreement. But the pro-immigration, left-wing, liberal, progressive majority of the European Parliament has decided that political ideology is much more important for them, and it is much more important to teach the Member States that think differently from a political ideological point of view than to help the countries of the South that are in trouble because of the corona virus. It therefore proposed a solution in which budgetary support under the Treaties could otherwise have been subject to political conditions for Member States. This was unacceptable for Hungary, Poland and, moreover, for even more EU countries. We believe that financial issues and political debates should be separated from each other. By the way, Hungarian people think the same way, and I do not know how you have seen the public opinion polls published in this regard. According to 81 percent of Hungarians, it is wrong for the EU to impose political conditions on financial assistance in an epidemic situation. The Hungarian people thought in the same way as the Hungarian government, but unfortunately the Hungarian left thought in the opposite direction, and he joined the Brussels flight which would have asked for the left-wing ideological conditions in Hungary and other EU Member States. 62 percent of Hungarians said that the Hungarian opposition went too far when Hungary demanded punishment from Brussels and the European Union bodies. Luckily, common sense has won, and it can be said that a beautiful Gaulle-ist tradition has revived. We remember when France announced the policy of empty chairs in 1965-66 on agricultural subsidies, which was the key element in protecting national interests. This crisis, the policy of the empty seats at the time, was finally concluded by a so-called Luxembourg compromise, which is still in place. According to this, if the Member State's vital interests are at stake, only a unanimous decision can be taken in the European Union. This knowledge at that time, this decision at that time, is still in place today, and it can be said that the end of 2020 brought the success of the Gaulle policy, which brought about a new Luxembourg compromise. We have managed to prevent financial assistance and budgetary support from being subject to political conditions. Common sense has won, Europe has won, and Hungary has won without the support of the left. But the situation is not so rosy, because these ideological conflicts have not yet disappeared from Brussels. What we see from the Commission documents published in the weeks is that the immigration-friendly position remains part of the narrative in Brussels and is part of the Brussels policy. The Commission has issued a migration strategy and an integration strategy, which also refers to the period of 21-27, i.e. the same period for which the budget applies, to the access to and support of 34 million people with migrant backgrounds. We believe that this is not what Brussels should be focusing on, but on helping European people and protecting European lifestyles. It would be good if we could count on the support not only of the right but also of the Hungarian left in this policy. That wasn't the case before. Let's hope it changes next year. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda with the title of our current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.10]]
u2020-12-15-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As we heard earlier, Hungary and Poland made history at last week's European Council because they stood up not only for their national interests but also for the unity of the Europe of nations. The debate seemed to have been about the rule of law mechanism, but it was clear from the outset that it had little to do with the rule of law, and even without the conclusions of the European Council, it would have been affected by the European rule of law. Why would they mock the rule of law with this proposal? It is important to underline, Mr President, that a sanctioning mechanism would have been set up in this plan, which does not specify what would be sanctioned, nor what sanctions would be imposed. There would have been neither the opening of proceedings nor the conditions for closing them, there would have been no legal remedy for decisions taken in proceedings, for example, and there would have been no clarification of the relationship between the mechanism and EU law, in particular with contracts. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this has been eliminated by the European Council, which has won not only Hungary but also Poland and the European Union as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the real rule of law, this is important because it has succeeded in preventing the creation of a mechanism to blackmail those Member States which do not agree, for example, with migration or family policy, by withdrawing funds from Brussels. The plan was therefore ready to adopt, using the pandemic, a rubber rule that would allow Member States' will to be overwritten by a qualified majority vote. The rule of law, Mr President, was a disguise, in fact, to force Hungary to become an immigrant country. Although this was officially denied everywhere, several EU politicians spoke out in the heat of the debate, for example, Maltese Socialist Commissioner Helena Dalli said that this mechanism is the way to bring the Member States into line. The German Socialist Vice-President of the European Parliament Katarina Barley stated that Hungary and Poland must be overcome and starved to death by the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is a coincidence that the European Union has just published its action plan, as my fellow Member István Hollik mentioned, which is not less than 34 million migrants who would not only be introduced, but also give them housing, aid and voting rights. This is a very serious threat to Europe's security, as it would be a new kind of invitation for illegal immigrants, which would lead to significant masses of people moving towards Europe. [[Continuous noise in the Chamber.]] However, accidents are rare, this migration action plan is frighteningly similar to what György Soros himself published on his website in 2015; that is to say, an attempt was made to re-introduce the 2015 resettlement quota, with the plans of the left-wing parties for voting purposes. They want to import new voters instead of their former disillusioned voters, and they no longer deny it. They have no choice but to rely on those who come to Europe, not for European values, but only for the attractive well-being of the continent. This is therefore the objective of sanctioning the instrument, punishing Member States who are unwilling to participate in State-organised immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, not only Hungary and Poland, but Europe as a whole won. The Heads of State or Government have finally recognised their national interests. This time, the forces seeking to bring down the sovereignty of the EU Member States have been defeated. It is high time that this approach, which is now forced to retire, stopped poisoning the cooperation of European states. The Hungarian and Polish governing parties continue to fight to achieve this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Noise.]]
u2020-12-15-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all of you to allow a more moderate presence so that the Secretary of State's response can be said. State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Security is the most important community value today, especially when it comes to the safety of Hungarian people, the Hungarian borders. Hungary is a safe country, one of the safest countries in Europe. However, migrants are also appearing in growing groups at the Hungarian-Serbian and Hungarian-Romanian borders. From 1 January 2020 until yesterday, 40 823 migrants wanted to enter illegally, while during the same period of the last year this number did not reach 14 100 illegal entry, and during this period the number of captured smugglers was 426, while last year there were 155 people. The European Commission's Action Plan on the admission of immigrants will allow for a new mass to be launched towards Europe. On 23 September 2020, the European Commission presented the proposal for a Pact on Migration and Asylum issued as a Commission Communication and the related legislative proposals. One unacceptable point of the proposal is to allow entry into the European Union and residence until the procedure is completed for persons who do not yet have a final decision to be entitled to international protection. Hungary made it clear in the debate on the proposal that the planned reform of the Union's migration policy should be based on a balance between responsibility and solidarity. It is clear what this is all about, because suddenly in the middle of the epidemic, there is a proposal on migration from the European Commission to bring 34 million migrants into the EU, who would be given aid, housing and citizenship, i.e. political voting rights. This is the Soros plan. In 2015, they only talked about the need to accept refugees, to be in solidarity with them, and later they talked about the need to help economic immigrants. Dear Parliament, Then came the quota, the idea of compulsory distribution of migrants, and the fact that borders should not be strictly controlled. We are now talking about the European reception of tens of millions of people, who should be given housing, citizenship, voting rights and social services. We strongly reject this, Honourable Parliament, honourable Member. With Hungary's previous position, it does not support the adoption of individual legislative proposals in the asylum package. At yesterday's meeting of EU Home Affairs Ministers, Member States held a third debate on the new EU Pact on Migration and Asylum. It can be concluded that there is no agreement on the progress report. The V4 countries and the remaining five Member States, Slovenia, Latvia, Estonia, Austria and Denmark have not been able to accept compulsory solidarity. On behalf of Hungary, we stressed that the Presidency had advanced findings in a number of areas where no substantive discussion or substantive debate had taken place. It did not take into account the views of several Member States. We stressed that any form of compulsory relocation and return sponsorship is unacceptable to us. We must primarily support refugees in the countries of origin and create external hotspots. It should be stated that there is no illegal entry into the territory of the Union, that the external borders must be protected by everyone. We protect our borders, we do not allow illegal migrants, Hungary will not be an immigrant country. The government is firmly and continuously monitoring the situation of illegal migration, and we have strengthened border protection. For the sake of the safety of the Hungarian people, the government extended the crisis caused by mass immigration until 6 March 2021, in particular with regard to the migrant mass on the Balkan migration route, its safety and epidemiological risks. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, The triple protection works, the legal protection, the fence and the lively protection fulfil their role, fulfil their function, the government provides the necessary resources in the 2021 budget. Thank you for the service of the police that protect our borders, the soldiers who protect our borders, and we expect them to continue in the future. Hungary will not be an immigrant country, we will protect our borders. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Move.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that anyone who has not yet received the package needed to make the declaration of assets can still do so at the reception desk at the entrance to the President of the Chamber. So there's an opportunity for this at the reception desk in the corridor behind my back. I ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because we are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to adopt legislative proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rules 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of your voting machines. [[Attendance check.]] Thank you very much. 192 Members present, 7 are absent, the Parliament has a quorum. Dear House, Following is the T/13927 on the announcement of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13927. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 195 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The XCV of 2005 on amending the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, and amending the laws on medicinal products for human use and the pharmaceutical market, published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979. T/1339. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/13929/1. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of us on the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to accept the T/1392. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 194 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows now that T/13931 of 20 December 1988 on the publication of an amendment to the Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in the United Nations, published by Act L of 1998 in Vienna, is now taking place. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/13931/1. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the Internet, the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13931. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 191 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows now that T/13932 was published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965 on the publication of an amendment to the Single Convention on Drugs in New York, dated 30 March 1961. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13932. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The next step is the T/13469 on the Governmental Personality Decision Support System. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13469/5. T/13469/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 25 and 26 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13469/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 50 against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13469/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 52 against and 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13469/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 56 against and 6 abstentions. [[10.30]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13469/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 56 against and 5 abstentions. It follows that T/13467 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the entry into force of the Act on the status of personnel of the National Tax and Customs Office Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13467/4. T/13467/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 10 and 12 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13467/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 60 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13467/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 59 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13467/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 2 against and 60 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13467/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 2 against and 60 abstentions. The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. T/13650. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13650/6. T/13650/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13650/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 162 votes in favour, 14 against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13650/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 146 votes in favour, 13 against and 34 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13650/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 146 votes in favour, 14 against and 33 abstentions. It follows in the context of the title 2023 of the European Capital of Culture, the T/13668 on the provisions relating to the successful organisation and organisation of the European Capital of Culture 2023 programme series. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13668/7. T/13668/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 6 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13668/7. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted 178 votes in favour, 13 against, with 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13668/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 178 votes in favour, 13 against, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13668/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 177 votes to 13, with three abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13668/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[10.40]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 176 votes in favour, 14 against and 3 abstentions. It follows now that the T/13669 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on sanctions for administrative infringements is now in effect. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13669/5. T/13669/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/13669/5, the author is the T/13669/5. A separate vote was initiated on points 51 and 52 of the proposed amendment. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 28, 29 and 30 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13669/5. Point 28, 29 and 30 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 37 against and 25 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 51 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13669/5. Point 51 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 51 of the summary amendment proposal for a separate vote by 133 votes in favour, 37 against and 25 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 52, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13669/5. Point 52 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept point 52 of the summary amendment proposal for a separate vote by 5 votes in favour, 164 against and 26 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13669/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 37 against and 25 abstentions. In view, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment, we will decide, in the final vote, on the text of the bill which has been amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13669. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 37 against and 25 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13669. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 25 abstentions. It follows that T/13673 on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of certain assets will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13673/8. T/13673/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that in point 1 of this Article, point 6 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 of the provision laying down paragraphs 1 and 3 and 4 of Article 7 and Article 10 A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of the provision laying down Articles 6, 7, 8, 9, 15 and 16, and the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13673/8. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 40 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13673/8. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 38 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[10.50]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13673/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 40 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13673/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 40 against and 22 abstentions. The next step is the T/13657 on the amendment of certain laws concerning defence. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Ladies and gentlemen, T/13657/4 and T/13657/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 5 to 11, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13657/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 55 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13657/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 54 against and 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13657/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 55 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13657/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 55 against and 7 abstentions. The T/13660, on the Central European Foundation for Education and the Central European Foundation for Education, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13660/4. T/13660/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. § 2 of the Dialogue Group is T/13660/4. A separate vote was initiated on points 13, 15 and 16. First, we will decide on the points requested for a separate vote and then on the other points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 15 of the summarised amendment, which requires a qualified majority, to be put to a separate vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13660/4. Point 15 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 15 of the summary amendment proposal for a separate vote by 134 votes in favour, 36 against and 24 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 13, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13660/4. Point 13 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote by 133 votes in favour, 39 against and 23 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 16, which requires a simple majority, which is requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13660/4. Point 16 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requested for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 37 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13660/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 37 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13660/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 38 against and 23 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13660/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 37 against and 23 abstentions. [[11.00]] Next up is the T/13675. on the Foundation for the University of Pannonia, the Foundation for the University of Pannonia and the University of Pannonia. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13675/6, and T/13675/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 70 votes in favour, 122 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/13675/6 of the Dialogue Group. A separate vote was initiated on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the point requested for a separate vote, and then on the parts of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 2 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13675/6. Point 2 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 2 of the summary amendment to the vote by 131 votes in favour, 54 against and 8 abstentions. In point 4 of the summarised amendment proposal, point 6 is replaced by the following: § 8 of the Act is decided upon. The adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13675/6. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] A provision laying down paragraph 1 of this Article shall be decided. The adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13675/6. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 48 against and 12 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13675/6. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 50 against and 12 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13675/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 55 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13675/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 54 against and 7 abstentions. It follows now that the T/13677 on the transfer of certain tasks of the National Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation to higher education, and on the amendment of certain laws on higher education, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13677/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 6, 7, 8, 11 and 15 of this, ladies and gentlemen, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13677/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13677/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 61 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13677/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13677/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. The Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agriculture and Life Sciences and the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences and the T/13676 on the conditions and resources necessary for the operation of the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13676/6, and T/13676/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 128 against and 1 abstention. [[11.10]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that in point 2 of this Article, point 4 is replaced by the following: A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of the provision laying down paragraphs 8 and 12, points 5 and 12; decisions shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13676/6. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 61 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13676/6. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 62 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13676/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13676/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. The next step is the T/13956 on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13956/10. T/13956/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Congressman Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Dialogue Group has proposed that Amendment 4 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Congressman Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. § 2 of the Dialogue Group is T/13956/10. A separate vote was initiated on point 5 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the point requested for a separate vote, and then on the parts of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 5 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13956/10. Point 5 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 5 of the summary amendment, asked for a separate vote by 134 votes in favour, 35 against and 25 abstentions. We are now deciding on points 7 and 14 of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13956/10. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 51 against and 10 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13956/10. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 52 against and 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the scope of the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13956/14. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and four abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13956/14. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and four abstentions. The next step is the T/13957 on the single electronic sales of individual public services. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13957/7. and a summary report by T/13957/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Dialogue Group has proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 134 against and 17 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. § 2 of the Dialogue Group is T/13957/7. A separate vote was initiated on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the point requested for a separate vote and then on the other points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 2 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. [[11.20]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13957/7. Point 2 of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the decision: the Parliament adopted point 2 of the summary amendment to the vote by 131 votes in favour, 46 votes against and 16 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13957/7. Further points of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 45 votes against and 18 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13957/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 61 votes against and 1 vote in favour. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13957/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 59 votes against and 1 vote in favour. The next step is the T/13958 on the amendment of certain energy and waste legislation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13958/9 and T/13958/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 1 vote in favour. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. § 2 of the Dialogue Group is the T/13958/9. A separate vote was initiated on points 52 and 67 of the proposed amendment. First we decide on the points requested for a separate vote, then we decide on the parts of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority, then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 52, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13958/9. Point 52 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 52 of the summary amendment proposal for a separate vote by 132 votes in favour, 62 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 67, which requires a simple majority, of the draft amendment requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13958/9. Point 67 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 67 of the summary amendment proposal for a separate vote by 133 votes to 61, with one vote in favour. We now decide to adopt points 21 and 22 of the summarised amendment requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13958/9. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the decision: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes to 58, with four abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13958/9. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 62 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13958/13. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 60 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13958/13. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 62 against and without abstention. The next step is the T/13648 on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of justice. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13648/8, and T/13648/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendment No 2 be maintained and the Dialogue Group proposed that amendment No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not reserve the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 133 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I call on the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 134 votes against, with three abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 16 and 38 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[11.30]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13648/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 54 against and four abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13648/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 55 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13648/12. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 54 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13648/12. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 55 against and 5 abstentions. The next step is the T/13679 on the amendment of individual electoral laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13679/15 and T/13679/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 9 and of Amendment 3 in the Dialogue Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 9 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 131 against and 18 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/13679/15 of the LMP Group. The Group of the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on points 1 and 11 of the draft amendment and points 2 and 36 of the substantive amendment. First, we will decide on the points requested for a separate vote and then on the parts of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 1 of the summarised amendment, which requires a qualified majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13679/15. Point 1 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 1 of the summary amendment to the vote by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 11 of the summarised amendment, which requires a qualified majority, which has been asked for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13679/15. Point 11 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 11 of the summary amendment to a separate vote by 175 votes in favour, 17 votes against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 2 and 36 of the substantive amendment, which require a qualified majority, which have been asked for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13679/15. Point 2 and 36 of the substantive amendment requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the points requested for a separate vote by 44 votes in favour, 147 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to points 3 to 10, 13, 15 to 22 of the proposal, point 64. The adoption of paragraphs 25, 26, 27, 29 to 31, 37 and 39 shall require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13679/15. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The adoption of points 25, 26, 27, 29, 31, 37 and 39 shall require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13679/15. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 41 against and 18 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13679/15. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 41 against and 19 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[11.40]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13679. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 60 against and without abstention. We now decide on the provisions of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13679. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 60 against and without abstention. Next up is the ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law, T/13647. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and final vote. T/13647/12 and T/13647/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 (4) of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments 4 and 5. Amendment 4 is proposed by János Bencsik. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 5 is also proposed by Mr János Bencsik. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13647/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 47 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article S (2) of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a proposal to amend the Fundamental Law requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13647/15 on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the proposal by 134 votes to 45, with five abstentions. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your cooperation. We've reached the end of your decisions. We're taking a short technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking all of you to take your seats so we can continue our work. [[11.50]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with discussions on Commission reports and summary amendments. I would like to draw your attention to the need to ensure that the rules of the pandemic situation are maintained more closely and that only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers should be present in the Chamber; but all my fellow Members already know this and participate in the work of this House accordingly. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to improve the competitiveness of the cinema industry and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/13663. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-12-15-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held on 3 December 2020 discussed the T/13663. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted by 28 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, The present bill includes amendments to three laws: the Personal Income Tax Act, on the one hand, and the Motion Picture Act, on the other, and, on the third, the Law on Simplified Employment. On the one hand, according to the Act on Motion Picture, the amendment of the Szja Act standardises, according to the announcement of foreign performers and crew members, the rules on the category of persons entitled to choose a simplified method of taxation in order to facilitate the application of the law. On the other hand, it ensures that it is possible for citizens of the European Union to opt for this form of taxation even if the rotation is delayed for some reason. The amendment also includes the possibility for performers and crew members participating in the film works to choose a simplified method of taxation even if, for some reason, they exceed 183 days of stay in Hungary. Dear House, The amendment of the Motion Picture Act proposes changes and changes at several points. On this basis, at present, 30 per cent of state aid can be claimed for certain film costs. These include income paid to participants in film production. Due to the protection of the balance of the budget, these costs can currently be accounted for only 50% of the total amount of HUF 3 million per person when applying for the grant. The increase in incomes in the meantime justifies an increase in this threshold of HUF 3 million, so the proposal increases the accountability threshold to HUF 12 million per person. In addition, the proposal proposes that a separate legal entity separate from the National Film Institute should be able to perform the tasks of the Authority in order to ensure a clear separation of functions between the authorities and non-officials. Clear and well-thought-out job placement will make it easier to record matters related to official activities and the administrative service fee paid accordingly. Finally, due to the increased costs in the film industry, it was also justified to modify the income limit and the related one-off burden on the simplified employment of film stats. Thus, not only feature films, but also advertising films, it will be possible to have a simplified employment of extras, thus making shootings in Hungary even easier. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law submitted should be supported, as it increases the competitiveness of the film industry and reduces the harmful economic effects of the epidemic in the film industry, which means that it protects jobs in this sector as well. That is the ambition of the government, and that is the ambition of our group. Accordingly, the majority of the Legislative Committee supported the proposal submitted. Please do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll ask Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, if you'd like to speak now, or just in the closing... [[For signal:]] He wants me now. Here you go, Secretary of State, you have the floor, but I will inform you that you have a total time frame of 15 minutes. So what you're about to tell me is that the time will come down from 15 minutes in the closet. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to fill in the time frame. The legislative amendment we are discussing now has two basic objectives: to further increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian film industry and to reduce the harmful economic effects of the epidemic. We would like the Hungarian film to take further levels after the spectacular strengthening of recent years. The full picture is that the amendments before us are basically technical and legal amendments, the proposals of which were preceded by several round discussions with sectoral actors. Some of the new rules apply to the employment of foreign professionals; another part concerns the costs eligible for State aid. The aim is to make film productions worth bringing to Hungary in the future, thus creating more jobs, strengthening the economy and increasing budgetary revenue. Under the new rules, simplified employment of extras will be easier not only for feature films but also for advertising films. Another group of amendments regulates the procedures of the National Film Office, and the bill also clarifies the division of labour in relation to the support of the artist. The Legislative Committee submitted an amendment, which clarified parts of the proposal, such as a new element in the text that the National Film Institute would conduct official procedures with an economic company in the case of public land bookings for shooting purposes. The rules on the remuneration of the Age Committee have changed and the date of entry into force of certain provisions has also changed. These are fundamentally technical changes. Dear House, In anticipation of their speeches and their previous speeches during the debates, I think that the bill serves the Hungarian film well, and therefore deserves to be supported by fellow Members regardless of party standing. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to inform you that you have a time frame of 12 minutes and 53 seconds. Dear House, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives, in the time-frame on the agenda, which are about to appear on the billboard. Thank you very much. From here, each faction can follow the remaining timeframes. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. [[12.00]] I'm going to ask the Secretary of State that there is still a need for a closing point. [[Csaba Dömötör says no.]] No. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 1995 LVII on water management. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/13659. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 10 December 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the 1995 LVII on water management. T/13659 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, 1 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill we are discussing amends the 1995 LVII on water management. The Law abolishes the obligation to authorise water rights at wells below 50 metres in length and below the first waterproofing layer, and requires a simple notification. Such wells use only soil water, they do not reach layer water, so their impact on groundwater resources is less. That notification also applies to newly established wells and previously illegally established wells, and in the latter case there is no need to pay a fine for an authorisation which has not been granted in the past. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The reason for this amendment is that complex and costly authorisation procedures have led to the creation of a large number of unlicensed agricultural wells in recent decades. As a result, the number of wells, their technical condition and the quantity and quality of water extracted from them are not exactly known today, even though these data are essential to design domestic water supply management. The joint purpose of the well amnesty and compulsory notification is to collect this information without burdening farmers in terms of financial or administrative matters. The notification will therefore be simple and free of charge, while bearing in mind the obligation to ensure that water users can be measured after notification. The necessary smart tools will be provided by the state. In this way, a database may be developed from which public authorities and water users can be informed of the available and used water resources and of the wells available in each area. In the long term, this will help to develop water resources management taking account of the needs of the environment and farmers together. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Minister István Nagy that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Minister indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Vice-President Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP Group.
u2020-12-15-41	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The preservation of Hungary's water resources, the wise management of it is a nation-wide strategic issue, the wise management of water is a fundamental issue of our future; it is not a tool for the short-term enrichment of some of the oligarchs that have become rich with farm dogs, so that, after the harvesting of water resources, drought and desertification await our country. It doesn't take much math to make it clear from the environmental data: in most of Hungary's territory, especially in the agricultural lowland areas, natural annual evaporation and the water intake of vegetation exceed the fall and recovery of precipitation. The fact that, for the time being, we can boast of this kind of agriculture is mainly due to the infiltration of peripheral areas and the interrelated subterranean water supply. But we must consider this, my fellow Members, as family silver, which must not be squandered, especially in the production of corn for biodiesel, for example, at 400 000 hectares. Even the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court rejected their previous proposals in this respect, precisely because of the Fundamental Law and common sense. The draft they had just submitted was just cosmetic, not with much change in essence. It is no coincidence that the advocate of future generations once again indicated that they were on the wrong path. This may be the reason why they tried to refine the draft, but what is fundamentally and fundamentally wrong is not helped by a little fine-tuning. In fact, we are talking about three major amendments. One is that in the case of wells that can be established on the basis of the notification, the conditions have been changed. After notification, the establishment shall not be started immediately. Within the period laid down in the Government Decree on the exercise of the power to administer water management, the irrigation administration shall approve or prohibit the establishment on the basis of the prior notification, or shall establish that the establishment may only commence with the possession of a permanent permit to establish water rights. But we don't know this government decree yet, who knows when and what they'll accept. Obviously, it would have been nice to see this together. The other pearl is that the operator is responsible for using groundwater only to the extent that the water extraction and water replacement balance is maintained without damage to quality and that the requirements for achieving the objectives of the good condition of the waters are met. The water authority and the groundwater trustee may verify compliance with this obligation. Do you really think that the water user will be interested in limiting the enforcement of water abstraction interests? The third proposal is to require the establishment to pay a water management fine if the water installation has been constructed, whether unannounced or not approved. The fine may range up to 80% of the value of the unlicensed structure. The amount of the fine imposed on the natural person shall not exceed HUF 300 thousand. Do you think this will be a deterrent? In the case of family farms with a lack of resources, perhaps, but certainly not in the case of large estates. We believe that these proposals, although helpful, do not solve the fundamental problem. We do not know how much water can be removed, because of the replacement, because of climate change, the effects of groundwater removals cannot be localised due to the specific nature of groundwater. Giving authority tasks to the irrigation body once again is the disarming of the organisation system representing the overall environmental aspects, while the management of appropriate climate-tolerant varieties maximizing irrigation culture, soil renewal and water resources in soils is, of course, still lacking in respect of the exception in Hungary. For this reason, we are still unable to vote in favour of this draft, and we very much hope that the President of the Republic will not sign it, and will turn again to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-42	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-15-43	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I am pleased that we can talk again about this draft law, and I am pleased that it is here in front of this House before the final vote and that we can clarify a few questions. [[12.10]] The government's aim is to be responsible for water management in Hungary. We think that everything that has been and its regulatory system has been protected and how right it has been, but there will be a hundred thousand illegal wells. So we can safely admit that the system so far was not good, because we could not check it, it was not registered, and it could not be measured. So if something was dangerous to our environment, that's the condition. Now, that's the condition we're trying to eliminate. 'Cause what's it gonna do, what's the bill gonna do? It ensures that these wells become visible, that the water extracted from them becomes measurable, that is, it gives us certain data, because we are building a monitoring system out of it. We can manage water responsibly, and yes, we can say that if there is a problem with the water level, we can say that it cannot be watered. There's no other way to control it. So if we can't call farmers in as partners, if we can't bring this issue to light, and we can't make the farming community more cooperative, we'll be unsuccessful again. We may be able to tell you that, wow, we've regulated and we've made a great law, but it's not going to accomplish its purpose. I think that is not our goal at all, but to carry out responsible water management. You have to divide the two questions into two. On the one hand, there is the issue of winding up illegal wells, which I think is a very serious, very cardinal issue. The fact that we advertise well amnesty, that we install it with a water watch, that we can remotely read the data on this is a guarantee for regular water use and water management, which I think is very forward-looking and very much XXI. It's from the century. Let's separate the issue of creating new wells. My fellow Member rightly said that yes, he was obliged to report, yes, we must also wait for the establishment permit to exist, so we can only set up this well, so we can place the establishment in very strict, controlled conditions. Let me add another thought that we need to clarify. It is not a matter of washing the question the way Congresswoman did it, that we will water corn for the production of biodiesel from such wells. This would be the roof of horror, a degree of extremism that must be rejected most definitely. Hungary's irrigation strategy is to use surface water. Hungary receives less water than it emits. So we have a moral basis for the use of irrigation water, the management of it, that we need to use. The government programme, which provides for HUF 17 billion for ten years, is what we would like to use very quickly from future generations' programmes, EU funds, about EUR 1 billion for irrigation development, precisely to promote Hungary's water management and responsible water management. So the irrigation of our agricultural areas should take place to a large extent from surface waters. This is what the bill is about, in order not to touch the drinking water base at all, the areas above the first waterproofing layer, which are not 50 metres high, but not 50 metres high. We need to use it in gardens where it is naturally impossible to be anywhere else or used to water livestock or livestock farms. That's what the law is about. What is intended is to become white, to be checked, to be announced, to be controlled, and to finally know how to shape Hungary's water base, so that we can see the amount of water that can be used day by day. What we must see, my fellow Members, is that this law is capable of regulating this, of providing this knowledge for us, and of ensuring that both Hungarian farmers and the Hungarian performance that we can obtain from the economic work, and of achieving a responsible attitude and a responsible attitude in order to protect our environment. I therefore urge all my fellow Members to vote, to adopt this law, since it can provide both the environment and farmers with a win-win position. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-44	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the winery and winery presentation and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral T/13955. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-12-15-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13955. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The primary objective of this bill is to increase the efficiency of our wine sector and simplify sectoral administration. This objective is achieved by the current 2004 Annex XVIII. It lays the foundations for a completely new regulation, which meets the requirements of the present time, and which takes into account the proposals of professional organisations in the wine sector in a large way. With the adoption of the proposal, the administrative burden of vineyards and winemakers will be greatly reduced and the possibility of electronic administration will be opened to them through the introduction of the e-Learning System. As is already known by everyone in electronic tax returns, the system will be able to automatically prepare and submit individual submissions, and farmers will only have to do a few clicks. The additional advantage of the system is that the submission of a data will only be necessary once, since the administrative bodies and the authorities will receive the information they need from the e-Learning system. Administrative facilitations and radical simplification of certain procedures, such as the marketing process, will make administrative processes faster, and in a procedure sectoral actors can gain weeks compared to before. The proposal also has a much simpler, more transparent system of official certificates than before. The legal instruments to protect the market value of their geographical indication are an important element of the new legislation. The law places as many decisions as possible in the field of protection of origin in the hands of local producer communities. Wine regions producing our wine hungaricums, Tokaj and Eger, receive special rules for the protection of their products and the safety of their production. During the discussions and discussions that have taken place so far, we have all been convinced of the benefits and significance of the proposal. I would ask my fellow Members, like the Fidesz fraction, to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Minister if he wishes to speak now or at a later stage of the debate. [[Dr. István Nagy: Later!]] Yes, Minister, he indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The general debate of this legislation took place here at a late hour in Parliament a few weeks ago, in an unusually constructive mood compared to the ember debates that used to be. It has also been said that it is actually a rethink of the 2004 law. There are also a lot of practical and forward-looking decisions in this legislation, including such proposals. [[12.20]] Of course, at times it is also important to codify that, by the way, a legislation that has been amended many times may, after a while, be better reviewed and a new one accepted instead. At the time, I told you what things were going forward, and, of course, the amendments will be examined by the Ministry. By the way, even in the course of the debate, there was a feeling that this was a new codification, a single thing, and, in fact, the modification of this will obviously be bypassed, and it will not be necessary. Compared to this, and I would like to ask the Minister about this, the press information that we saw last week about the fact that there will be further changes to the legislation that will be adopted tomorrow, which will in principle receive a majority here. This concerns my county in particular, so I ask you this: it concerns Tokaj's question, it concerns Tokaj. Press information indicates that the separation of flatland producers and mountain producers can take place with a later, expected spring amendment, which puts producers in the flatland at a particular disadvantage. We've heard a lot of negative news about Tokaj in recent years. I think it would be in our mutual interest that only positive news come from the region. This is in the interest of the producers, and it is in the interests of the country, so we are talking about a Hungaricum, so it doesn't matter what happens to the Tokaji. A lot of producers are scared, and I hear what the future will be, and I think that it is not good that otherwise the legislation will be amended again and again. [[To Dr. István Nagy:]] You're kissing your head, Minister. That's encouraging me a little bit. To sum up, I would therefore ask the Minister to try to take action in order to ensure a common legal background on winemaking and winemaking, in the interests of a legal background that does not serve the NER knights. 'Cause this is what the press reports here are about, that the amendments in the Tokaj area will be in the interest of the NER knights. I don't want that to happen. I would like to serve the interests of all producers in my decision, and I will also ask our faction to serve the interests of local producers. So, in short, Minister, I would ask you to reassure the Tokaj producers and to answer the concerns and concerns of those who are producing in the surrounding settlements that we have heard about last week. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-15-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-49	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I asked for the floor on behalf of the wine region in Eger, as I did the previous time, and I promise to be brief, because I explained most of what I had to say a week ago, but at that time I promised to consult with the winemakers and winemakers in the wine region on the new wine law, how they see this at the end, what they think of these proposals. I think this draft legislation is very important, because there are a lot of families living in our region from vineyard and winery. We respect and appreciate their work and thank you for producing high-performance wines that carry our reputation far away both at home and internationally. This consultation, which I promised, was carried out, because Fidesz-KDNP is based on the public work on dialogue. We always ask the relevant groups how they see the situation before we make a decision about them. In the wine region of Eger, winemakers and winemakers find that this wine law, the new wine law, is certainly timely and forward-looking, but they therefore welcomed the proposal that the devil is obviously in the details, so they asked me as the representative of the wine region in Eger, that when we get there, and when the Parliament will hopefully adopt this proposal with a large majority or even consensus, we also ask their opinion on the detailed rules, as how this will work in practice, to a large extent depends on it. I myself submitted seven amendments to the bill. I would like to highlight one of these, which is closely related to the wine region in Eger, and to the peak performance of the wineries and winemakers in Eger, the bull's blood in Eger, which is the only red wine we have that is hungaricum. The white wines have the Tokaj Aszú that my colleague spoke about earlier. This amendment, which I have tabled, and I would ask for its support, is its main mission, the spirit of the amendment proposal, that besides the Tokaj aszú, the bull blood of Eger should enjoy the protection provided by law; we can extend the possibility of pre-emption in the region to wines bearing the Eger designation of origin, and since Eger bull blood is the only Hungaricum of red wines, I thought it was important that this should be part of the new wine law. I would like to thank Minister István Nagy and the Group of the Agricultural Ministry for always being open to hearing farmers' voices, listening to the opinions of the winemakers and winemakers, and I am obviously aware that this new wine law, this bill, could be created because a very long or long-standing professional dialogue was launched on this. And in fact, the embodiment of this is now this bill, which the amendments that have arrived at it are trying to make better, in order to avoid what my fellow Member Varga said on behalf of the MSZP, so that they will have to be amended later. I am sure that it is the intention of the rapporteur to establish a single whole, long-term and lasting new wine law by discussing, adopting this amendment after seeking opinions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-12-15-51	Thank you for the opportunity. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a law before us that deals with a very important sector, since the community of Hungarian winemakers is a community in the Hungarian agriculture. They are the ones who have always understood the word of time as soon as possible; they are the ones who are open to the market; they are the ones who immediately recognize the possibilities after the change of regime, and we have to admit that every bottle of wine abroad creates a good reputation for the Hungarian economy and gives Hungary a good reputation. I can put it as I always do: Hungarian wineries are the flagships of the Hungarian agriculture, and they work as well. To make the XXI. We can meet the demands of the century, we need this amendment of the law, because they are in huge competition, there is huge international competition, and they have to be able to meet it here. And there can be no other criteria or criteria in wine production, just one word of quality, and it can only be added to quality, quality, quality. No criticism or compromise can be reached in this. All the bill that we have here is for decent producers to find themselves in the most competitive position possible. No one should have an undue advantage, and no one should be able to abuse good faith or any other purpose, but only fair competition and, of course, quality. Therefore, the law would like to create administrative simplifications. We want up-to-date information, which is why we are introducing the e- or online cellar book to get instant data. It helps and supports the work of winemakers by making official certificates more transparent, with much less administrative burden on them. By listening to their request, we incorporated the importance of protection of origin into the law, and these are the ones that need to be given different special rules. [[12.30]] Turning to my fellow Member, Mr László Varga, on the subject of Tokaj, I must say that this law currently covers the entire Hungarian wine sector. Tokaj winemakers had special requests, relating to issues of protection of origin that we must inform in Brussels. After the notification, we can only put it in the law. So everything that came to Tokaj has been winged, rumored, not real information. The intention of those who wish to cause confusion would be to turn producers against each other. There is no provision in the law at any time concerning Tokaj that is not the common position of the Tokaj winemakers' community. The bill may contain only sections concerning Tokaj that the Tokaj winemakers' community can formulate and find the regulators, compromises that ensure their production here, in accordance with Article XXI. Even in the century. Let's face it, there are few products like Tokaj aszú, so that if the word is spoken in any part of the world, it is certain that Hungarian manifestations will join it immediately, everyone knows that we are talking about Hungarian wine. May the Eger bull's blood be the same, as it is on a very good path, the initiatives that have come to be unique, glass, bottle, distinction are excellent, since it is absolutely important to be unique and distinguishable above all, and this Eger bull's blood is absolutely typical. That is what I can say to my fellow Member Nyitrai, and thank you very much for your work to bring together the winemakers in Eger, to represent their interests, to make the proposals that are necessary for the winemakers in Eger to be included in the XXI. Competitive in the 21st century. to succeed in the century and to sell as much wine as possible from and beyond our borders. Our goal is that the community of winemakers in Hungary can be a successful community, so that we can all be happy to have two glasses of silence, and we can wish each other, with all our heart, for our health! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Thus, even before the holidays, I recommend to all my fellow Members that they vote with a pure heart to this law, since it provides an opportunity, a framework for Hungarian producers of grapes and wine, which serves the purpose of being the XXI. In the 20th century, they recognized how to be even better in quality, and how Hungarian wine will be recognized both at home and abroad. This law can guarantee that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-52	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary to eliminate abuses related to the prison congestion compensation procedure and the discussion of the summary amending proposal follow up. The government referral T/13954. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13954. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. Under Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, he accepted by 33 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The general sense of justice of Hungarian citizens and society has been greatly violated by the ten billion-dollar industry, which has developed in recent years, called prison business. Lawyers linked to the Soros network filed nearly 12,000 indemnification lawsuits against the Hungarian state, which forced the state to pay approximately HUF 9 billion in compensation to criminals who committed extremely serious crimes and sentenced to permanent imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, The prison business industry clearly realizes the abuse of law, damages the Hungarian state, destroys public trust in justice and violates people's sense of justice. Therefore, the government has done the right thing by deciding to put an end to this and restore society's trust in justice. Dear House, This year the Parliament adopted a bill aimed at restoring the balance between compensation systems for victims of crime and inmates. The adopted law is an excellent way to reduce the number of abuses of compensation lawsuits that seriously harm the sense of justice of society, and to ensure better protection of the rights and interests of victims, while also making effective proposals to remedy the prison congestion problem. Dear Parliament, The draft before us, as a result of the amendment of the Penalty Act, extends the scope of claims that can be directly deducted from the compensation by establishing the legal basis, in respect of all debts arising from private law relations with the defendant and being enforced. In this context, the victim's claims caused by the previous offence committed by the defendant and any private or legal person's claim for execution will also be covered by the amount of compensation for the sentenced person. However, under the new rules, these claims will only be included in the last line in the order of satisfaction. The proposal allows the State tax and customs authorities to implement the amount already paid to the sentenced person as compensation, i.e. the amount paid as compensation to the sentenced person for all public debts or other debts owed to the State will be available. According to the bill, the rules for ensuring the substantive assessment of compensation are significantly simplified, which could lead to a much higher level of victimisation than the current one. As a result of the amendment, the victim could accept the amount established by the court in relation to the crime as an amount of compensation and at the same time designate the person convicted by the court as being liable. It is also a very forward-looking idea that, in cases where the criminal court considers that the examination of the civil rights claim presented by the victim in criminal proceedings is complex, because of the difficulties of proving it would result in an unjustified delay in criminal proceedings and, in view of this, in order to order it to take another legitimate course, such enforcement would automatically be transferred to the civil court without the assistance of the victim. Dear House, The proposal submitted should be supported by expressing that in Hungary sinners are not rewarded but punished. Legal efforts are focused on victim protection and victim support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, if he wishes to speak now or later in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Vice Minister, he indicated that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives will now take part in speeches within the time frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly, because I think that your general debate has been properly carried out in this presentation, but the rapporteur for the majority opinion of the Legislative Committee has also referred here to previous political conflicts, such debates of the previous period. [[12.40]] I would like to reiterate that the previous legislation adopted in 2016 has caused the processes that your majority adopted here in Parliament, and this has enabled Hungary to pay huge sums as compensation to actually convicted criminals. I would like to reiterate our position that the MSZP is on the side of the victims, so we welcome any solutions that facilitate compensation and compensation for the victims, which show progress. We think that it is necessary, of course, to create the right conditions in domestic prisons, and that this may be the key, of course, to not having to pay this kind of money to convicted criminals there. Late, but they're taking action on this case. Previously, prison development programs were promised in many places in the country, including Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, concerning Ozd, for example, and then they were canceled. In fact, when the situation escalated with regard to the legislation that you have adopted and caused a huge social debate, a conflict in society, they stepped in and tried to reduce prison congestion to less than 100 percent. This thing is late, and if these four or five years hadn't gone by, we believe the situation wouldn't have escalated. I can only quietly conclude that, compared to what political speeches were built earlier, with the power that they had spoken about prison business earlier, perhaps because in the general debate they have taken it a little further, this argument system has subsided, perhaps because they feel that the government is in the first place in the development of this whole thing. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-15-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will also comment very briefly, the general debate was relatively long, or at the beginning of the year, when such political guidance was introduced to the Parliament, to the government, we discussed this issue quite thoroughly and discussed it. Indeed, it is a situation that is clearly the responsibility of the government, because it has been governed for ten years, it was created four years ago, which has given rise to abuse, and it is no wonder that there has been a huge social outrage here as a result of these abuses. So I also have a positive appreciation for the self-criticism or restraint that Mr State Secretary spoke and argued with during the general debate. Indeed, this political responsibility in this regard is yours to 100%, the problems must be solved, and this proposal is, by the way, a solution to the problems, so the LMP fraction will support it. I just want to ask you one thing, Mr. Secretary. I have also raised it here in the general debate, and indeed my fellow Member mentioned that there was a prison-building programme. Here, they promised to build many prisons, and in many places they were looking forward to these investments, obviously in areas where a few hundred jobs are also a huge opportunity. What will be the fate of this previously announced prison building, and specifically of Komlón, will this prison be built? If so, when? What can you tell us about this, Mr. Secretary? I would very much like the answer to this question to the people living in Komlón and its region. Thank you very much, Mr President.
u2020-12-15-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a bill ahead of us that we had been waiting for, and it would have been very good if it had been here five years or four years ago on the Parliament's table. Yes, we were still criticizing the bill at that time, and I think that if we had this bill before us then, it would have been completely different. I think that if there had been a common thinking and the government had taken into account the proposal of Jobbik, the thoughts of the opposition, then this law could have been implemented much sooner, because we had already formulated the criticisms that the government had already incorporated into this law. What was most important then is the prison-building program, which we saw as the only option for overcrowding in Hungary to end. You promised to do so at the time, but on the other hand, these constructions were cancelled at the time. The government started with a great deal of money, launched the prison building program, announced it, and local governments applied for it, and in many cases it was accepted, for example, the prison building was accepted in Ózd. He moved towards the population, convinced the population why there was a need for a penitentiary in the city, managed to get the local population to accept it with propaganda, convinced them with reason that they would accept it, and then, to this day, do not know for what reason they had not been implemented. The fact that this prison-building program had stopped, I think, is clearly the result of the fact that the prisoners had to pay HUF 9.5 billion as compensation. Indeed, this is a serious problem, and this has affected the sense of justice of society, because it was obviously serious public criminals who had access to these funds, and when the victims who were victims of the crime, and in many cases, and in general, did not obtain the compensations that the court had granted them, in contrast to the fact that in a series of cases, the prisoners were compensated by the state for millions of dollars, it obviously upset people's sense of justice. Don't tell me, Secretary of State, that you didn't see this coming, because we, among other things, called to your attention in the parliamentary debate at the time, that this is going to cause serious problems in Hungarian society, because it is a serious violation of the sense of justice of all good people that criminals, offenders, receive millions of forints of compensation. Moreover, it was even more outrageous that you had even privileged this amount: you could not deduct anything from it, only reduced the amount of deduction in two or three cases, and you would not allow it. This, too, was a serious problem, obviously affecting the sense of justice of society. We are therefore pleased that there is now an amendment in which you now have a different opinion. We are very sorry that this opinion did not come to light four years ago, but now, four years later, I was released to great social pressure. I don't know why we had to wait, why we had to throw the HUF 9.5 billion public money out the window. By the way, I would like to say that from about the time that this law was passed, I am thinking about 2016, as a consequence, as a consequence, and as a consequence, and as a consequence, that at the same time the prisons have not been built, HUF 9.5 billion was issued out of public money to the inmates. This HUF 9.5 billion was about the amount of which overcrowding could then have been eliminated. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's not like that!]] If you had spent 9-10 billion forints on building a penitentiary... Mr. Secretary, I can see that you are wagging your head about this. I looked at the reports of that time, the reports of the commander of the penitentiary, the national commander's annual reports, which he sent to the National Assembly. These included about how much money it would cost to expand a seat, and it could be calculated that from this HUF 9-10 billion at the time, around 2500 could have been added to the seats from 121 per cent to 100 per cent, and thus the court could no longer have judged the amount of compensation to the prisoners due to overcrowding. So this is the amount that could have been spent on this. Therefore, I regret that this programme of building the prisons was cancelled at the time, because it was based on the fact that this amount was finally paid to the inmates rather than on the construction of new prisons. I am very pleased that the government has changed its mind and understands what a serious problem this is and really wants to present a real solution to this problem in the future; we naturally support this. We have been constantly and consistently, in 2016 and ever since, as party to the order, serving to ensure that these amounts are not passed on to the prisoners, but, first and foremost, victim protection from this money, and not to provoke the outrage of society, but to take soothing measures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[12.50]]
u2020-12-15-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to recall a few memories, because some people have a bad memory of the events of the 16th. So we remember very well that many, many thousands of cases were accumulated in the Strasbourg court, and it is also due to the size of the payment that those cases also had to be paid. And we all knew then that there would have been an enormous amount to be paid if we had not solved this issue by means of internal legislation. On the other hand, I remember from Jobbik that they did not want to accept this proposal, the amendments that the law now contains. If we look back at Parliament's minutes and amendments, it certainly does not have anything to do with speeding up the enforcement of damages. Or we forget that it was a complete package, for example, the extension of reintegration detention also significantly reduced prison congestion, which also served this purpose. Or the other part, Mr László Varga, also talked about building prisons. I remember they used to build prisons in PPPs, and then we couldn't pay them to stop these constructions. And if we also looked at the fact that now, at a time of pandemic, when the prisons expanded and reduced the number of seats to less than 100 percent, I think it would have been socially more difficult to accept that we would have chosen a smaller, more cost-effective way of enlargement, but instead to the new prisons, so to say, we would have paid ten billion. Obviously, the prison development programme, because there was such a question on the part of Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, if necessary, will obviously continue to do so by the Ministry of Interior. That is the case at present, it seems, in terms of current figures, to be resolved. Allowing deductions: Csaba Gyüre, my fellow Member, if you read the law carefully, you can see that we are not talking about deductions, so it is still possible to make deductions in the same categories, child support, among victimical grievances. However, in respect of other claims, executives are able to obtain, by means of enforcement, the amounts owed to creditors or victims of the prison escrow account. So this is a two-step process, and that is why it had to be worked out in a separate legal way, so that the case-law and judgments of the Strasbourg court would not be violated, and that the legal solution that we found was in line with the requirements there. I just want to congratulate the colleagues who, after a very long preparatory work, were able to work this out. Again, I would refer to the same prison congestion in other countries, but there was not the Helsinki Commission and other Soros-organized lawyer groups, which were industrially settled on this possibility and sued billions of people from the Hungarian state, many times on the grounds of sunbathing and other reasons that could be considered ridiculous from the outside. So all in all, I thank my fellow Members for their fact that we have been able to remain objective at the actual content of the proposal; it is a pity that such resumes have come to us at the end, so I thought that we should sew them up, and I ask that you support the bill in the vote. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-15-62	I thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCI on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws follows. The Commission's reports on the proposal for an amendment to the Economic Protection Action Plan to increase employment and the discussion of the summarised amendment. Government referral T/13662. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CXCI on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws. T/13662 on the amendment of Act T/13662 to increase employment in line with the Economic Protection Action Plan Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 32 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, In 2011, the government transformed the support system for people with disabilities. That's the basis for anyone who wants to work to know. This is the way we want to continue, because the employment of people with disabilities is also a major factor in the implementation of economic policy aimed at improving the performance of the Hungarian economy. Today, there are some 360,000 people of active age with changed working skills in Hungary. The measures taken in recent years together contributed to an employment rate of 44% over ten years compared to the 18 percent level in this target group. Currently, 155 thousand people work as disabled workers. The employment of people with disabilities and persons with disabilities is an investment for everyone in the long term. The priority is to increase the level of employment of people with disabilities, and the bill before us serves this purpose. The proposal concerns the functioning of the care system, cash benefits, procedures and occupational rehabilitation services. In order for companies to employ more workers with changed working skills, the bill extends the range of workers who are entitled to the exemption from the payment of the rehabilitation contribution. In addition, young people with special educational needs should be taken into account for the payment of the rehabilitation contribution up to the age of 23. The aim of the proposal is also to remove the limitation on disability and rehabilitation benefits. According to the current legislation, in addition to the payment of cash benefits, employment can be carried out, but if the income from it is higher than one and a half times the minimum wage for a period of three months, the benefit will be terminated. This action restriction would be lifted in the future by the adoption of the bill. The proposal can help people with disabilities to continue their employment, reduce the administrative burden on customers and employers by simplifying the rules on measures, and thus reduce the administrative burden, thereby creating a clearer and more transparent situation. The bill also allows employers to take into account mentors employed for at least 4 hours when calculating the mandatory level of employment. Mentors are a great help in successfully working and maintaining people with disabilities in the labour market. The Fidesz-KDNP government has already done a lot to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities, in order to promote their daily well-being. Together, the amendments and proposals serve to enable those who are able to do work to get all the help they can. I think this bill is very forward-looking and must be supported. Please support this proposal. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-15-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, whether at this stage of the debate or later... [[Attila Philip: Not now, thank you.]] He wishes to speak at a later stage, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'll ask if anyone wants to live with this. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will look at Mr Secretary of State, perhaps in the context of the Commission. [[Attila Philip: Just one sentence.]] If not, of course, after the final debate, I will announce that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[13.00]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain child protection and social legislation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral T/13644. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13644. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 26 votes to 1, with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, On 10 November 2020, the Ministry of Human Resources submitted the T/13644. Bill No. 1 with which the government intends to strengthen child protection and social care. The government is committed to developing high-quality services, effective responsibilities and family-oriented child protection in the social and child protection field. The amendments contained in the proposal serve these objectives and confirm the Government's intention to support the efforts of people with disabilities to rehab and social inclusion. With this proposal, we want to continue to develop transformation processes in social, child welfare and child protection services that have started in previous years, transparency of the supply system and more targeted provision of services. Amendment to the amount of municipal aid. With regard to the allowance for care premiums, the amendment of the legislation provides that instead of the minimum pension in the current legislation, the basic amount of the care fee should be the maximum amount that can be paid, i.e. the possibility of local authorities to set the amount. Under the current rules, two provisions have been met, and this amendment resolves this. The amendment provides an opportunity for local authorities to grant higher municipal aid in parallel with the increase in the amount of care premiums. Modification of the targets for the use of home-creation aid. The goal of home-building support is to support at least three years of institutional care for young adults who have no family background or wealth. The purpose of the amendment is to include subsidised housing as one of the aims of the home creation allowance in order to allow young adults who are out of special care for children, who have no property, who are permanently ill or who have disabilities to make a single contribution or entry contribution to the social institution. An amendment in support of foster care and clarifying the employment relationship. We further strengthen foster care in the child protection field. The additional fee for foster parents providing special, special and dual needs increases from 5 percent of the minimum wage up to 7 percent so far, thus helping them to raise and raise more important care challenges. Due to the coronal virus epidemic, we extend the deadline for the foster parent's central education programme, and the training is free of charge for foster parents. Extension of post-care care in maintenance powers for young adults who are studying. In addition to strengthening family-centred child protection, we must pay close attention to the preparation of young adults from the institutional system. The amendment of the law therefore allows not only those who study higher education and secondary education to remain in post-care care, but also those who study in vocational training and secondary school, rather than only those who are 30 years of age. Extending the possibility of requesting data from the IT system "The protection of our children." The amendment provides for the possibility for judges, prosecutors, investigating authorities, protective supervisory services and prison institutions to make direct use of data on data recorded in the IT system "The protection of our children" in order to fulfil their statutory duties. Creating a legal basis for disability counselling. The government has broken off with the practice that the social area is about expressing regret, but instead our aim is to build on opportunities, chance and value creation. With the current amendments, we will strengthen the integration and completion of people with disabilities into society. That is why we are proposing the possibility of consulting for their lives. The disability advisor available at family and child welfare centres has special expertise and a wide network of contacts across a wide range of fields. Facilitate the elimination of unregistered social services. In the event of the termination of an unregistered social service, the body with a duty to perform the duties shall provide for the persons remaining unfit. In the case of residential social services, this task lies with the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Child Protection. Under the current rules, the person or organisation organising the service in the absence of registration shall cooperate with the body required to provide the care in the organisation of the care. Practical experience shows that cooperation does not always take place voluntarily. The illegally providing person does not allow the staff of the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection to enter the property concerned, so that the public maintenance cannot assess the number of persons to be cared for and the state of their health, the additional care they would require. In 2-3 cases a year, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection has to take care of people who are left unattended, but not all of them are co-operating with the provider of illegal services, thus preventing the removal of care. The relevant rules are complemented by the bill in so far as the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Child Protection has the power, like government agencies, to enter the place of illegal service provision, access to the documentation of beneficiaries and to speak to them personally in order to assess their need for care and to provide them with the most appropriate accommodation. Dear House, In the light of the above, we see the government's commitment to continue to support it faithfully by creating the necessary conditions for the performance of these tasks in the particularly important social and child protection care area, by amending the legislative environment. Thanks to this proposal, the services of the social and child protection system in Hungary will be expanded, which is in the fundamental interest of all those who feel responsible for their difficult and fallen compatriots. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-12-15-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now possible to speak to its Members if they wish to make use of this option. I'm asking if someone would like to tell me. (For signal: ) I don't see any sign. The debate is closed. (To be indicated: ) The Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to react, because he was not a speaker on behalf of the fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following up will be the 2016 LXXIII on foreign representations and permanent foreign service. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. [[13.10]] Government referral T/13661. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2016 LXXIII on foreign representations and permanent external service. T/13661. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, The amendment envisaged by the bill before us clarifies the issues raised in the application of the Foreign Affairs Act and is of a decisive technical nature. The proposal introduces, among other things, the concept of a specialised consultant, i.e. a professional diploma in consular duties, simplifyes and clarifies the rules for immediate return and immediate dismissal, regulates the secondment of government officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to the Information Office, simplifies the job classification of administrative staff and establishes a guest education scholarship programme. Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, the establishment of a guest educator scholarship programme, which will provide tangible financial support for teachers in a foreign higher education institution, will be highlighted. Under the proposed amendment, provisions on the legal institution for secondment from government interest will be drawn up, taking into account the termination and termination of the relationship of government officials seconded to the posting body for a limited period of time for the purpose of permanent external service. In view of the arguments put forward, the proposed legislation should be supported in order to ensure uniform interpretation and application of the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State points out that at this stage of the debate he does not want to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I'm asking you, would someone like to live with that? [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said by the committee. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says he doesn't want to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports submitted to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, for the publication of the Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the debate on the draft amending text. The government referral is T/13640. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 33 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, In 1995 the European Union announced its new Mediterranean policy in Barcelona. The main starting point of the Barcelona process was that several EU Member States felt that integration had turned too far towards new democracies in Eastern Europe, neglecting relations with the Mediterranean states and developing them. The new direction for us Eastern Europeans may not have been an elegant initiative, but after a few years we could be full members of the Union, so we became beneficiaries of the EU's agreements with Mediterranean partners. Today, the EU has partners in the Maghreb countries, including Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, but there is close cooperation with Egypt, Jordan or Israel. The agreement has a major role to play in increasing intercultural understanding and thus strengthening social relations. On the economic side, the main objective is to establish a free trade area between the EU and its partners and the Mediterranean partners. Dear House, Hungary and Tunisia are key partners to each other, our political relations are orderly and continuous. In recent years trade flows between the two countries have increased steadily, reaching, for example, USD 154 billion in 2018. Our most significant bilateral agreements were concluded last year in the fields of culture, education and waste management. The bill before us is therefore intended to ratify the protocol whereby Croatia becomes a contracting party to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement with Tunisia as a result of its accession to the EU in 2013. The adoption of the international treaty should be supported both by the support of our southern neighbours and by our good relations with Tunisia directly and within the framework of the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now possible to speak to its Members if they wish to make use of it. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Again, I'm asking the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] He does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the right of residence of citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members and the discussion of the draft amending proposal on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union follow up. Government referral T/13652. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. For the first time in the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the right of residence of UK nationals and their family members in view of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 35 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, This year, the transitional period for the exit agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom expires on 31 December. This would mean, among other things, that British citizens who have so far obtained a residence permit in Hungary using preferential rules of EU law could no longer exercise their rights to do so next year, and should be re-acquired as non-EU nationals from third countries. The solution to this problem is the proposal that we are discussing, which provides for a one-year transition period for those concerned, during which they can obtain a permit to reside in a preferential way. On the one hand, the benefit is reflected in legal aid for the procedure and, on the other hand, in the fact that the procedure does not examine the length of the previous stay, the existence of conditions for housing, livelihoods and health insurance, and the interests of Hungary, since they have been living here for a long time and are sufficiently integrated into the Hungarian society. The proposal includes the temporary use of previously obtained documents and the visa waiver rules applicable to British citizens arriving after 31 December 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal provides a good response in good time to the problem of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union, which is important not only from the point of view of the relationship between the two countries but also from the point of view of our fellow countrymen in Britain. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much. [[13.20]]
u2020-12-15-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Sztáray, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray says no.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak at the moment. Dear Parliament, The designated Defence and Police Committee has not presented a rapporteur, and now we have further opportunities for opposition from its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2020-12-15-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For our part, we are in favour of any solution that, after Britain has left the EU, will help to resolve the situation, residence and other situations of citizens, so that we will also act on this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray says no.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of unmanned aircraft and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/13666. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-12-15-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of unmanned aircraft T/13666. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As far as the bill is concerned, it is necessary to adopt it in order to harmonise EU regulations and to implement the obligations of the Member States contained therein. On this basis, we ask for your support. Thank you.
u2020-12-15-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[Dr. Laszlo Mosóczi says no.]] The Secretary of State indicated that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Interventions are now taking place in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, For what I asked for the floor, the amendment that we tabled, which was a professional proposal supported and prepared by the Hungarian Modelling Association, which was actually not discussed in substance in the Committee on Economic Affairs or in the Legislative Committee, is the statement of the representative of the government, not surprisingly, which is usually the case, that the government does not support it, but we see no further reason why it says that it does not support the proposal which would also have retained the obligation to harmonise European legislation, but would also have taken into account the proposals of the Hungarian Modelling Air Modelling Association, which gives space and places to a rather populous camp, but, in turn, renders them virtually impossible. So please, if it is still possible, or if it is possible in the future, take account of the Alliance's proposals, and therefore the amendment that we have tabled should also be passed through this legislation, and everyone should, of course, be able to continue to comply with the harmonisation obligations, with the kind of hobby activity that they would like, and please do not make it impossible. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-12-15-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Group leader, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, And I would specifically like to ask the Secretary of State to give an account, either in the closing or in the debate, of the way in which this legislation has been prepared. There has been an incredible amount of outrage to everyone, and I believe that the government, as well as the Members. It is quite astounding that such an important regulation, such legislation, has been launched without any meaningful consultation, and rather without prior consultation, but it can be said that the modeling society and the drone society have been hit as a shock by this harsh amendment. I would also like to ask myself how the position of the Hungarian Modelling Association, the amendments, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give a precise and detailed account of the way in which these amendments have been assessed and the opinions received from other organisations, professional organisations and groups of interests, the way in which they have been adopted, the way in which they have been assessed, and if they do not now accept what is unacceptable, I think what kind of review, what changes will be made in the next period in the legislation. It is quite clear that this intervention is harsh, there is also very, very hard political motivation behind it, it is clear that it is extremely unfavorable for you, or it is difficult for you to bear the fact that journalists investigating the extreme level of corruption and the immeasurable enrichment of the fidesz oligarchs can reveal in this way, and they can make it clear to the Hungarian public by means of drone recordings what is actually happening in this country. We clearly see that such political motivation is behind this, and, of course, we agree on the need to regulate matters in some way. This is obviously a rapidly changing market, a fast-growing industry, but these conditions should have been taken into account when this market is regulated, and there is no way to go in a direction that this legislation, by the way, represents, that such a fast, beautifully prosperous industry is practically regulated, discarded, and, by the way, very, very many households, many Hungarians, are forced to be forced to part with devices and drones purchased as hobbies, because obviously they will not be able to take on this extremely serious administrative obligation. But the most serious problem, I think, is almost zero, completely inadequate coordination. In what way or in what way could the legislation have been brought to the Hungarian Parliament without such consultation, and what exactly is the opinion of the government in the direction of the professional opinions, suggestions or requests sent to it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-15-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2020-12-15-81	Mr President, Dear House, I can be brief, because both of my fellow Members have partly touched on what I wanted to say. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what kind of professional discussions are being held at a time like this. So I understand that EU harmonisation is also correct, but it really seems that this EU harmonisation obligation is also being used by the government for some underlying political purposes, so behind this screen, what should I say about their own political goals? They'll sort it out. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State what kind of professional discussions have taken place, because indeed all Members, probably even the members of the government, have received the letters in which the various civil society organisations have objected to some of the points of this amendment. So that is what I would like to know, Mr Secretary, if you could address this question in your answer or in your closing statement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-15-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. László Mosóczi: Close.]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-12-15-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Union Regulation covering the entire spectrum of unmanned aircraft entered into force on 1 July 2019 and the Implementing Regulation laying down rules for the implementation of drones flights should have applied from July this year, but this deadline was amended to 31 December 2020. Dear House, The framework established by the EU regulations justified the drafting of new Member States' standards and the adaptation of the existing set of rules. The purpose of the bill before you is to discharge the legislative powers of the Member States as defined by the EU Regulation, to comply with the obligations of harmonisation of laws, and to ensure that drones used for the use of unmanned State aircraft, i.e. for defence, customs and law enforcement purposes, are not covered by EU legislation, which is entirely our responsibility to establish these rules. It is in the primary interest of the State that unmanned aircraft, as new technical means, should support and facilitate the performance of the public tasks of each organisation. We are discussing a bill that, in response to the rapid development of unmanned aircraft, creates the safe use conditions for drones, facilitates and supports the use of drones by public organisations to perform their mandatory duties, and pays particular attention to the protection of privacy. [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains three amendments to the law. The widespread use of unmanned civil aircraft, their gradual spread and the risks inherent in their use, also justify the establishment of state regulation. According to the draft specifications, the lawful use of unmanned aircraft is possible by fulfilling registration obligations, carrying out the required training course, applying for a case-by-case air space over a populated area, registering in a mobile app to assist in use, or operating with application in the specific use of a drone. At present, unmanned aircraft can only operate in case of case-by-case airspace. As a general rule, the draft allows the use of unmanned civil aircraft outside a populated area without requiring an ad hoc airspace. The objective pursued by this proposal is to ensure, on the one hand, that unmanned aircraft can be used under controlled rules that are stricter than EU legislation and, on the other hand, compliance with harmonisation obligations. EU legislation does not cover unmanned State aircraft flights, but the airspace is common and it is therefore appropriate to harmonise the regulation on aircraft used for civil purposes and those used for public purposes without a pilot. Dear House, The bill pays particular attention to the protection of privacy. In order to protect the rights of the person, the new infringement situation provides for the imposition of an unauthorized recording. The recording shall not be considered as unjustified if the data subject has consented or has given a mandate to make the recording. The amendment provides for a criminal offence to be imposed by a person who, through the unauthorised use of an unmanned aircraft, monitors other apartments, other premises or related enclosures, or constitutes a classified case of making the recording or image taken during the surveillance available to the general public. The new situation provides for an open watch with an unmanned aircraft to be punished if the driver is not entitled to use an unmanned aircraft. In view of the sensitivity of personal rights, it is appropriate to leave the victim's right of self-determination in the context of his wish to be held accountable to the perpetrator, which is why the above offences are intended to be subject to a private initiative. Dear Parliament, Following the general debate, six separate amendments were tabled to the bill and clarifications were made. The regulatory process of nearly two years has reached a new milestone, but it is clear that we need to keep up with the pace dictated by technological progress. There is a need for regulation that helps the spread of innovative technologies and services, while meeting the need to ensure a high level of compliance with aviation safety, so that we do not lose our own good pace. Our aim is that the bill before you will enable us to exploit the potential of technological progress as widely as possible. Dear Parliament, With a wide range of professional cooperation, a bill has been drawn up that does not only serve the transposition of EU legislation, but also takes into account domestic needs. Thank you for your support during the general debate, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-84	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy efficiency laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/13667. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-12-15-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 3 December 2020 the T/13667 on the amendment of certain energy efficiency laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 5 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the bill is to amend the Energy Efficiency Act, the district heating Act, the Electricity Act and the Gas Supply Act for legal harmonisation purposes in accordance with the following EU acts. The aim of the bill is also to establish an energy efficiency obligation regime as set out in Hungary's national energy and climate plan by amending the Energy Efficiency Act. With the introduction of an energy efficiency obligation system and the re-regulation of the monitoring and monitoring of alternative policy measures, the legislation establishes a framework with the aim and interest of achieving the EU's headline energy efficiency targets of at least 32.5 per cent by 2030 and can then continue to make progress in the field of energy efficiency. With the introduction of an energy efficiency obligation system, the legislation also seeks to remove energy market barriers and market failures that are likely to be effective in energy supply and use, and also contributes to the implementation of the first principle of energy efficiency. An important objective is energy security, strengthening energy sovereignty, decarbonising energy production while preserving the results of the reduction in electricity. The preservation and development of domestic power generation capacity is a security of supply issue, with its successful management it is possible to reduce the Hungarian electricity import rate above 30 per cent by 2040 to less than 20 per cent, while the share of CO2-free electricity production should rise to 90 per cent by 2030, compared to the current value of around 60 per cent. We therefore respectfully ask for this House's support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, at this stage of the debate as rapporteur. [[Dr. Kaderjak Peter says no.]] The Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, and now representatives are taking part. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, While we have held the parliamentary debate, it should be noted here that we have raised two proposals in this regard, both as a criticism, but also as a compliment, that we have said that the government is looking forward to what will happen in three or five years' time, but that in three or five months' time, the government is in greater trouble, and we can see that this very year, when the government had the opportunity to do so, and, of course, because of the very, very, very well-appreciable situations from the point of view of social sensitivity and the pandemic, there has been a need to reduce the price of energy sources, the cost of public use, we have asked the government to take note of this, and we have even submitted proposals for this, in fact, they have been rejected without a meaningful response. What were these suggestions about? These proposals were, by the way, made by the predecessor of your energy chief, who had promised that there would be a so-called social band in the tariff, where we otherwise suggested that there should be one where, for a symbolic amount, for example, during the winter period, let's say, a 30 kilowatt hour electricity or even 15 cubic meters of gas would be at all for families, since these are not how to say it? Gentle mischief is now under the 21st century. In the 20th century, to make this possible for everyone, but to make sure that there is a social band for those who are in a bad family, financial situation, or who have been put in a position by the measures taken because of the pandemic or the pandemic, so that they can no longer pay their bills. [[13.40]] I think that there is no more pressing feeling now than that someone has lost their job because of the measures taken for the epidemiological situation. Imagine, there are a lot of these families, even two of them, working in tourism or catering, and they're forced into their homes right now, and soon, if the government tightens up, they're going to order people into their homes and consume even more, but they can't pay their household bills. You voted against this proposal, just as you voted against what I submitted to have a discharge moratorium now, not to put families in such an unappreciable position, not to embarrass families so much that now, especially during the holiday season, especially in winter, they will be turned off from the services. We think that the government could have thought of this sooner than a multinational company thought of it, it was the one who first thought that from 6 December to 6 January, from Santa to the Water Cross, Hungarian families would not be turned off from consumption. I think it was a very appreciated and good move. These were not included in these strategies, although, and with what I started, only one sentence of explanation fits here, the government would have had the opportunity. The price of gas on the stock exchanges did not exceed 40 forints this year. If we want to be very fair, it was always closer to 30 forints, but there was a time when it was 19 forints for a long time. I know that stock market movements cannot be pictured in daily pricing, but this is a long trend now, for a very long time and a year and a half at least, since public companies buy gas so cheaply, but it is much more expensive for Hungarians. They give you a cubic meter of gas for 101 forints, and they buy it for 30-40 forints. The price of oil is also cheaper, and it is not expected that the price of oil or gas will increase, but you will also give electricity and gas to Hungarian families. That's what I suggested, how do you think that's what you call it? National capitalist layer, we simply call them oligarchs, they will earn less this year. Many people earn very little this year, Mr State Secretary, many have lost their jobs, and now the oligarchs also earn a little less this year, and then the gas may be given to Hungarian families at a cheaper price. That's what we're proposing. Unfortunately, you guys, I have to say, voted a little unspoken, and you said that the government didn't support it. I am asking you, it is not too late, we are still in session tomorrow, I think that such proposals may still come from the government, and even such a regulation can come from the government, and then there is no need to convene Parliament, and these issues can be resolved without further ado. Think about energy in the lives of Hungarian families, not just how much money some oligarchs will be able to bring home. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow chef has already pointed out a lot of important issues, and I would like to emphasise another topic even more, and this is the energy efficiency of Hungarian homes, because it would be worth taking a deep breath for the government and providing a more serious source to enable them to renew their housing stock in this respect, especially with regard to social aspects. After all, many of our retired countrymen live, whether alone in such bunk houses or in small homes in the countryside, who are unable to renovate their homes, apartments in this regard, and it is very important here to help older countrymen to live their lives safely under civilized conditions and at a lower cost. So I would ask the Secretary of State to plan specifically for an initiative which, without self-esteem, for example, could provide such resources for such renovations along certain automatisms, where appropriate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-15-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2020-12-15-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, With regard to the debate on the bill, there will be a new chapter on the energy efficiency objectives of the European Union and Hungary as of 1 January next year. Under the Energy Efficiency Directive, Member States are required to achieve new savings of 0.8 per cent of their final annual energy consumption from 1 January next year to 31 December 2030 on the average of the last three-year period preceding 1 January 2019. In order to achieve the objective most effectively, the bill amending the Energy Efficiency Act intends to introduce, from 1 January 2021, an energy efficiency obligation scheme aimed at involving organisations selling electricity, natural gas and transport fuel to meet the targets of the Member States through new, cost-effective investments. I would like to stress that, within the new energy efficiency obligation system, there will be plenty of incentives and obligations for Hungarian market players to implement the renovations of the apartments, a large part of which we have heard in the comments of Mr Mesterházy. The introduction of the obligation regime will also increase Hungary's energy independence, energy sovereignty and a long-term sustainable consumer demand reduction of HUF 270 billion will occur for retail and industrial consumers, i.e. they will have to pay less energy bills to end consumers. This is how we plan to reduce the costs for retail consumers, not in the way that Congressman Cook suggested we give free electricity, free water, then free gas, free basic rent for Hungarians, and then free beer at the end. We have seen this before in Hungary. This is not the way we would like to support Hungarian consumers, but we have already implemented a sustainable reduction of the overhead, leaving HUF 1700 billion in the pocket of Hungarian energy consumers as a result of the measures taken in recent years. We are proud of this, and we will continue this work. By the way, at this point, Mr President, you said that this year the price of natural gas did not exceed 40 forints; I have just looked at it; the stock market gas price stands at 55 forints. Moreover, our energy efficiency obligation system, which will result in the next major set of measures for saving energy and overhead accounts, will also serve to strengthen the energy efficiency domestic background industry. About HUF 1000 billion of new investment demand in energy savings will appear in the next ten years, and we estimate that Hungarian companies will create HUF 520 billion of Hungarian added value. Of course, energy saving, energy imports, including natural gas imports, and unburned fuels will also result in significant CO2 and CO2 reductions, so energy efficiency measures will also bring climate protection and energy sovereignty benefits to Hungarian consumers in addition to saving energy, while encouraging investment. The bill also requires Hungary to develop a long-term renovation strategy, as amended by the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive in 2018. This is aimed at making the national stock of private and public residential and non-residential buildings a high energy efficiency building by 2050 through renovations. [[13.50]] Therefore, the measures that have been mentioned here in relation to the modernisation of the building stock, and the needs of which have been raised, are also addressed by the government in the drafting of legislation and the associated long-term renovation strategy. Also in line with the requirements of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive, the bill states that for heating and air conditioning systems with a nominal capacity above 70 kilowatts, a periodic energy review is required for residential buildings for an eight-year period. The on-site review may propose ways to make the operation of the systems under review more energy and cost-effective, in line with both the country's climate protection objectives and the results of the reduction of the costs so far, and to ensure further reduction of the costs in a sustainable manner. Dear House, During the general debate, all contributors' feedback was positive and supportive of the bill, which shows that the benefits of social and economic impacts achieved through energy efficiency objectives are out of the question. Even in the detailed debate, only technical clarifications were raised regarding the bill. Dear Parliament, The preparation of the bill before you will go back to one year, which, in its preparatory work, the government prepared the draft with the participation of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers and the National Climate Protection Authority, as well as relevant and relevant industry stakeholders. Thus, a bill could be put in place that does not only serve the transposition of EU legislation, but also takes into account domestic market needs and national energy policy. Thank you for your support during the general and detailed debate. The ideas expressed, as well as the absence of an individual amendment to the bill, indicate that they can decide on a well-designed and hopefully broad consensus-supported proposal. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-92	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The national policy for spent fuel and radioactive waste management will be followed by 21/2015. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Decision and of the draft amending proposal. The government referral is H/13642. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor first to Mr Péter Ágh, rapporteur for the Committee's majority position. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the national policy of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste 21/2015. H/13642 on the review of the parliamentary decision Parliamentary motion No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of radioactive waste regulates the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste in a comprehensive manner; it provided for the establishment of a national policy, a national programme and a system of requirements relating thereto. National policy summarises the principles, requirements and objectives of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste generated, the marginal conditions of the national programme to be developed for the implementation of national policy and which is the subject of a Member State's obligation to specify the tasks and timetable. Act 96 on Nuclear Power requires the National Assembly to adopt a national policy to present the government. This obligation was fulfilled for national policy in 2015. The nuclear law requires a review of national policy every five years. This Parliamentary resolution proposal seeks to fulfil the obligation to review national policy under the nuclear law. In the course of the review, the chapter of national policy presenting the regulatory framework is amended as some tasks and powers have been exercised by the National Atomic Energy Office since the adoption of national policy. There has been a change in the timetable for the operation of individual nuclear installations and certain concepts have been clarified for the consistency of the legal system. This is, therefore, what the proposal is about and on which we are asking for the support of this House. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-12-15-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the Legislative Committee discussed this amendment to the proposal for a decision No 13642 on national policies for the management of spent fuels and radioactive waste. And, as my fellow Member has pointed out, indeed, the directive establishing a Community framework for responsible and safe management of radioactive waste requires that national policy be developed at national level, and that, under the nuclear law, this particular national policy should be reviewed every five years as the government's proposal. This was done in 2015, when this particular national policy was put before the Parliament, and we are now in practice discussing the review of it after five years. This adopted national policy, an important element of which is the need for publicity and transparency, the promotion of objective public information, the involvement of society in decision-making, which must be enforced in every step of the implementation of national policy. This proposal then states that, according to the government, an extraordinarily revised national policy is not justified by the action of any new circumstances, by technical, scientific or other technical developments. The real problem is here. We can now say here that there is a mandatory review of such a calendar year, and the government considers that there is no justification for the review, even though this national policy itself states that socialisation or the involvement of society, information and objective information must be considered a priority. We know that this national policy states that in Hungary the permanent disposal of high-activity nuclear waste and spent fuel will take place in a deep-geological storage facility, and there is a need for a deep-geological storage facility. It also includes the preparation of this in the Boda clay stone formation. We have argued a lot about whether there was a decision or not, well, here it is completely objectively and clearly, this direction is set out in national policy. At the same time, it is clear to the government as well as to the competent authority, the National Atomic Energy Office, that the involvement of society and, by the way, objective information have not been achieved here, and therefore the region is a society, which is mentioned many times in this national policy, in many forums, very clearly stated that it does not request such a nuclear installation in the region, it does not want to accept a nuclear cemetery. In the spring of 2019 there was a public hearing in the village of Boda, and there it was acknowledged by the Director General of the National Atomic Energy Office. He acknowledged that this is an existing, serious problem and that it will be pointed out to decision-makers. [[14.00]] This fact alone would have justified a substantive review of this programme, so that not only will it be before the Parliament after five years, but the government will be able to face this serious failure, namely that the information was inadequate and that social participation was not guaranteed. In fact, the region has made it quite clear that it does not wish to accept such an object in the area. We're in a very special situation here. Nowhere in the world is there any example of such a densely populated metropolitan agglomeration that they want to build a high-activity nuclear waste storage facility, which they are not trying to do anywhere. We are talking about Pécs, the town of Szentlőrinc, many settlements, there are tens of thousands of people living in this agglomeration, the largest city in Transdanubia and a large rural agglomeration. This is unacceptable. [[Dr. László Varga will be replaced by Dr. Ádám Steinmetz in the notary seat.]] This is also problematic because there has been no technical developments in the review, since then there have been exemplary cases, technical developments that could again only encourage the government to be more cautious or should be warned. Sweden and Finland are the most advanced in this project to create a permanent nuclear cemetery, a high-activity waste dump, and finally, the Swedish environmental court has not long since refused its authorisation for this storage because it was simply not safe to have the packaging and containment technology that they could put down. I can give you one more example: the city of Košice, in the same way as Pécs, faced the fact that they wanted a nuclear waste storage facility nearby and took seriously the views, interests and intentions of the population there. The Košice city body, regardless of any political thinking, unanimously rejected this plan, so this project was cut short. That's what we should do here. Several opposition parties participate in the Legislative Committee, there are parties that support the use of nuclear energy, there are parties that do not, such as LMP. But, overall, the opposition side was able to fully identify with it, I see, and this is how the minority opinion emerged that, despite the will and intention of the population concerned, this national policy cannot be formulated. That would have been it, Mr President, the minority opinion, and I will present the party stand in a separate speech. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I welcome once again my fellow Members. We will continue the debate. I will now ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, as rapporteur, whether you would like to speak now, or if you would just like to take the opportunity in the closet. [[Dr. Peter Kaderjak: In closing, thank you.]] In closing, thank you very much. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State will have 15 minutes to close. I will now inform you of the rest. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now follow, according to the timeframes published on the billboard. Mr Attila Mesterházy is the first member of the MSZP group to ask with respect. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was also discussed several times, with my colleague László Szakács or with my colleague Gyula Molnár. Unfortunately, he had to leave, but my fellow Member, Cook, is still here in the debate, and he will certainly speak to him as a county of Baranya. I think that Mr Group Leader has just rightly said that it is worth asking the opinion of the population in such a project, so this is a good initiative. In addition, I am one of those who do not oppose the use of nuclear power, especially under conditions where we produce more than 50 percent of the Hungarian energy supply from nuclear energy. Therefore, it must be addressed with caution in the event that energy security is also valuable and important to us, and it must be. Nevertheless, our ideas and programmes include, of course, greater use of renewable energy sources, but we believe that a reasonable planning should be carried out in this regard. For our part, and I personally supported, for example, the extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, because it was rational at the time. Another issue is that enlargement should be done in this form and in this way, with such a financial background. The answer to that is probably no at first glance. It is also certain, as we have said before, that such a type of nuclear power plant block development would certainly be worth strengthening or asking in a referendum, as it is the result of such problems as this current draft law shows what will become of waste, how it can be stored in a reassuring way for a very, very long time. Because of these question marks, we will not support this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-15-98	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for indicating, at the beginning of your speech, that you have the same opinion as Mr Gyula Molnár. Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would now like to present the position of the LMP. The problem is given. Hungary has decided to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, and so there is an international obligation to ensure the decommissioning of high-activity nuclear waste and then spent fuel when energy generation is completed in nuclear power plants and the decommissioning of power plants and nuclear waste and spent fuel are produced prior to that. It is quite clear that we also accept this obligation, it is a national obligation, it must be resolved at national level in this international legislative context. Obviously there are intentions, and these intentions may even be rational, so that a common solution can be sought, but unfortunately, according to the current legislative environment, this is what we need to think about. Our firm position is that Hungary must solve this problem. At the same time, with Hungary solving this problem, this solution, which the government has outlined and is going towards, is unsustainable and bad. I can tell you that LMP is very critical of the use of nuclear energy, we say that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap and it is not safe in any way. Those who live in the area of Pécs know exactly why we say it's not green. We are faced with two dirty ends of nuclear technology: on the one hand, the brutal environmental destruction of uranium mining and on the other hand, our region is affected by this intention, this plan to investigate the possible location of a nuclear cemetery somewhere there. I would like to point out here that energy security is obviously a very important issue, and we have not debated the importance of extension. The situation is now that the operating time of the currently operating blocks has been extended until about 2036. I am very pleased that you confirmed last time, Mr Secretary, that you are not thinking about further extension of operational time. But our vision was to use this time to create the possibility of nuclear energy being driven out continuously, obviously not from one moment to the next, with an alternative policy based on renewables and taking advantage of the potential to increase energy efficiency. So we think that Project Paks II is completely unnecessary. We also consider it very irresponsible that the government has decided to expand the Paks to prevent the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste. The fact is that around 2013 the search for this high-activity deep geological storage site went up. In the meantime, the construction of the small and medium-activity storage facility in Bátaapáti was committed to the capacity, but it was then that it turned up and it could be said that the affected population, especially the city of Pécs and the region, expressed relatively quickly that they did not wish to accept this project. It was a very important event that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made a very clear statement during his visit to Pécs in 2015. He said that without the decision of Pécs, such a nuclear facility would not be possible. So Prime Minister has admitted that Pécs has a right to veto on this issue. Then, as a municipal representative, I took proposals to the then Fideszes city leadership in Pécs several times, and the then mayor of Fideszes Pécs made it clear that, okay, a research phase will go down until 2018, then you can see what the public thinks and redesign it. Compared to this, this was cancelled in 2018, and then, as I mentioned earlier, this project was granted a so-called site search permit in 2019. So it goes on, spend billions of dollars and use the time it takes as a resource to finally build such a deep geological storage. So people's decision was ignored by the fact that the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office acknowledged the existence of a problem and acknowledged that this region was not socially suitable. In the autumn of 2019, the municipality of Pécs County adopted a resolution stating clearly that it does not support the establishment of a nuclear cemetery. So here we stand, and here we must, I feel that Parliament has a responsible decision to make, and, by the way, even professionals acknowledge that we need an immediate political decision here. I can therefore say that the LMP faction does not agree with the statement in the motion that there is no reason to revise this programme. [[14.10]] In particular, the responsible decision would be to examine areas in Hungary that cannot be excluded from technical and geological conditions. We have previously organised forums where experts from the company concerned came, geologists, geophysicists, various engineers, and we have seen the figures that in many places, in many rock formations, it is possible to launch such research work in Hungary. It is our intention, and I think that this is the only responsible decision, that if we know that little money is available for this task, there is little time, because this is a decades of work, until such a storage can be built, then we must now decide to re-rank potential research areas and instruct professionals, taking into account the social and economic characteristics, that beyond the Bodai Claystone Formation, because there the population has said that they do not want it, they should look for alternative locations, locations that are not equally technically and geologically excluded, but do not affect such a large population, they cannot be excluded from social and economic point of view. I can say that this responsible decision, this direction is supported by international experience, because everywhere where these projects succeed with some distant deadline towards the target, this has been taken into account, that they first looked at the social features of the area, and then when they saw that it was not necessarily excluded, they went on and spent an amazing amount of money on research to finally build an underground storage. This is what I am asking the Government to do, this motion is totally unacceptable, to consider this and to submit to Parliament a motion for such a logical progress forward or a preparatory motion, and then we will support it, but we will reject it in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I did not want to leave an empty promise that I would like to comment on this subject. I would like to simplify it a little bit, in full agreement with Mr Crusade Leader's comment, but I would like to put it a little simpler. Let's hear from the pro-government representatives at home, in Baranya, and here in the Chamber that nothing is decided, because they are making the concept here, nothing is decided. But, Mr. Secretary, we all know that a lot of announcements, a lot of decisions, a lot of decisions have been made, but, you have long since decided that the high-activity radioactive waste dump will be in Bodan. It is true that in 2062, in most or all of it, but you are not taking the time to make use of the technological changes that might have been possible by then, the further research that would make this possible elsewhere than in a five-minute or ten-minute drive from downtown Pécs should be carried out ten minutes from a city of 150,000, and you are not wasting energy to find its location elsewhere. Why do I even think that you are not telling the truth then, that the representatives of Baranya are not telling the truth when they say that this is not a decided fact? Nowhere else are you or the government looking for him. If I listen to the scientists, if I listen to those geologists, they will also say that otherwise there is an underground place with a rock pattern with completely similar characteristics, even in this country, but it is possible to place high radioactive fuel with different technologies elsewhere, not only in Bodan, but you are not looking for it there. Yeah, there's one more thing to miss. The thing that must be added is that you have decided to expand the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and, of course, the former government, which has decided, has not yet been able to decide where to place the spent radioactive waste, but you have started this investment without knowing where to put the increased amount of spent fuel. There is only one alternative to this in your vision and obviously in the concept, and it clearly does not account for its social or economic impact, especially its social rejection. Otherwise, it would really be a world patent to put a nuclear cemetery in the base of a city of 150,000 or 145,000. Since there is no alternative to what you are looking for, you are unable to present yourself, just as no other member of government or Member has been able to present this, so it is possible to say for a very long time that there is no decision on this. You can say they won't make that decision without asking the Pécs, but they've already made it. Well, they don't search anywhere else. They're looking for these places. Here, they do not examine the social impacts, especially the social rejection that surrounds this project. That is why we ask together that you consider finding new technological solutions, finding a new location, the social burden of which, as the economic burden does not necessarily fall on the neck of a city, but that this landfill, the nuclear cemetery, be taken to a place where it can be placed and maintained without greater social resistance. There's time for this to happen until 2062. The last few years have been wasted on this, since they have not sought alternative solutions. I'm asking you not to waste the next few years looking for alternative solutions. Thank you so much for the floor.
u2020-12-15-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Attila Mesterházy, from the MSZP, will speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Gyula Molnár is monitoring the meeting and this debate on the Internet, and he drew my attention to what is a legitimate observation that he lacks in the debate Fidesz MEPs Erik Bánki and Péter Hoppál, who are also representatives of Baranya County, who are working closely with Pécs, and yet it would be interesting for me to make a note of his views and opinions for the purpose of the minutes, because this will certainly be a topic of debate in and around Pécs, and voters would have the right to know what they think in person. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-15-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will now ask Mr. Peter Kaderjak, as rapporteur, that he wishes to keep a close, as he promised at the beginning. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Parliamentary resolution on the national policy for spent fuel and radioactive waste management, as has been said, is intended to fulfil the five-year review obligation set out in the Nuclear Energy Act. The proposal includes the transfer of amendments that have been made over the last five years, in particular in respect of specific tasks and competences, and the changes resulting from the completion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's successful extension project have been introduced through this parliamentary decision. Dear House, As set out in the Nuclear Power Act, nuclear safety takes precedence over all other aspects in the application of nuclear energy, and in the proposal for a decision to review national policy, the requirements of Directive 2011/70/Euratom remain fully met. Dear House, One of the main issues in the general and in-depth debate of the proposal for a decision was the final disposal of high-activity waste, and the comments that have now focused mainly on this issue. As is well known to you, the central element of national policy is the broad application and acceptance of international practice. This ensures that we can always use the best available technical solutions, the latest research results in the field of radioactive waste disposal. This is also extremely important, because in the recent comments, there has been a feeling that we must resolve the issue of the disposal of high-activity waste within a very, very short period of time. [[14.20]] I would like to stress that a very successful example and practice on the disposal of low and medium-activity radioactive waste has been achieved in Hungary. In the area of Bátaapát there is a waste storage facility, whose full acceptance of society is an excellent international example of how this problem can be dealt with in a civilised manner, and also shows how the type of social information, transparency, which is strangely lacking in relation to this particular project in Boda, is being fully implemented in the preparation, implementation and operation of the Bátaapát waste container. So I would like to point out that, in its activities relating to the management of radioactive waste, the government is making considerable efforts in the areas of transparency, information, information, material and non-material efforts. We see that this work is going well, and it is, in fact, regrettable that every time the issue of nuclear energy and waste management arises, it is always a good reason to scare voters with things they shouldn't. The question of the handling of high-activity waste and its final disposal should take place in decades, until then, the application of the principle should be extremely important. As we have already informed you on several occasions about the establishment of a deep geological storage facility in Hungary, contrary to what has been said here, no decision has yet been made, but only research is being carried out to select possible sites. Several alternative sites have already been examined in previous years, compared to the Boda site, and if the Parliament approves the amendment of the current parliamentary decision and thus justifies national policy, the programme that we will prepare for this policy in the next year will be able to include that research, i.e. research on future potential sites - alternative locations compared to Boda - will be reset and thoroughly examined. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your constructive and critical contributions during the general debate. These, together with the absence of an individual amendment to the Parliamentary resolution proposal, indicate that many agree with the proposed amendment. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal for a resolution in the final vote, so as to help the government to develop a policy-based programme next year and then implement it in order to ensure that the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste in Hungary can be achieved in the most careful and secure way in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. The debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/13646. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-107	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13646 amending the Mining Act. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, 3 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The important objective of the bill is to strengthen the involvement of domestic resources in economic processes. In the fight against the coronal virus epidemic Hungary is doing well, the pandemic has highlighted that in the event of disruptions of international supply chains it is essential to involve domestic resources more closely in economic processes in order to maintain operational capacity, reducing the international exposure of our country's economy. The amendments to the Mining Act guarantee efficient and immediate supply of mineral resources for domestic construction, the need for imports and the improvement of security of supply for raw materials where the natural characteristics of the country make this possible in the first place. The critical economic and social situation in the event of an exceptional situation justifies the extension of the special public engagement in water, agricultural land and forestry to domestic construction mineral assets. It should be ensured that in all cases where, as a result of the epidemic, the mining market is unable to meet demand, the State is given the means by which the problem can be dealt with immediately. The amendments give the organisations exercising public ownership rights the power to catalyse research and production processes, to improve the supply of raw materials by finding new sites, by preventing mine closures for economic reasons or by preventing the interruption of production, thus removing one of the major obstacles to the launch of strategic investments that are also important for the risk of epidemic and the re-launch of the economy. The miners have always played a prominent role and have a role in shaping not only our country's industry, economy, but also its traditions and culture. Our country is in the era of reindustrialisation: there are sectors that need raw materials and raw materials again. The dynamic growth of construction also drags mining with it. The rational and responsible management of state-owned mineral resources is in the common interest of the State, the economy and society. From the beginning, the government's emphasis has been on reducing domestic energy import dependency, which has an important role to play in making greater, cost-effective and environmentally friendly use of domestic energy supplies. We therefore call on our fellow Members to accept this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr. Peter Kaderjak, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he would like to speak now or in the closing section. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have a period of 15 minutes for the closing session, as in the last item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place according to the time frame on the agenda, as is clear to all of you on the billboard. I would also like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. First, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I also presented a statistic in the general debate, which I would like to reiterate: until 16 percent of the waste generated came from construction and demolition waste in 2004, this ratio reached 39 percent by 2017. So it can be seen that in Hungary the reuse of such waste in construction investments has not been resolved at all, while in the neighbouring countries, practically complete industries have been built on this. So when, in fact, my fellow Member has also said the argument in the motion that the need for raw materials must be met, and that increasing extraction is the only direction here for the re-launch of the economy, that is a serious mistake, and this mistake will once again result in the destruction of the environment, and we will, of course, reject this proposal. [[14.30]] I would add that the unsolved use of this type of construction debris is not only a problem for the supply of raw materials, but also the problem of the disposal of illegal landfills, such construction debris, which I think we can see more and more. And while the government is speaking against the elimination of illegal landfills, it is not yet possible to see the solution, so obviously the side of processing should be strengthened so that the construction debris can be processed. This would also be very positive from an economic point of view, create a great deal of jobs, and then there would be no need to increase recycling and recycling. On the other hand, it could be done to combat illegal landfilling. On the one hand, there wouldn't be that much pressure from that side, and on the other hand, the authority side should be strengthened. In this regard, in order not only to express criticism, I would like to report a positive, good news. Not so long ago in Pécs, construction debris was planted illegally next to a wonderful natural environment, so I filed a complaint. I got back from the police the unfortunately usual answer that they refused to investigate because there was no crime or anything. To my surprise in this case, I received a letter from the D.A.'s office that the police had been overruled and prosecuted. This is certainly positive, but it is necessary for the government to change the legislative environment in such a way that it is a clear task for the authorities to be able to and must act on such cases. I would like to repeat a request or a question to the Secretary of State. I indicated to him that not so long ago, several months ago in Baranya County, I received a signal about an alleged illegal, unauthorized mining activity, in which I was contacted by the mining department, the mining department; this authority is now understandable within the government office. I received a signal, and then I sent a rejoinder and made a specific request for data in the public interest. It has already been two months, Mr. Secretary of State, and I have received no response, nor have I received any reaction to the request for data of general interest. I find this outrageous. So what's the procedure? Is this how the government works in Hungary today? So how is such an announcement, I specifically turn to the authority as a Member of Parliament, and simply the answer is the big silence, so now I have to sue the authorities? How can you do a job as a representative, Mr. Secretary? How can you act as a Member of Parliament against such environmental destruction activities if the authorities do not respond, respond, give no response, give no data and prevent us from doing the work? That is why I would like to confirm my request the other day, Mr Secretary of State, to influence these authorities and to oblige them to give them the answer, to enforce it by law; and if there are systems problems of this kind, that these answers will be caught up for some reason, I would ask the Secretary of State to do so with respect. And of course I can tell you that the LMP fraction will vote against this proposal tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-15-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-111	Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to put it very briefly. We understand the author's intention, and even the intention can be reflected, but since we do not see the environmental and other effects of this mitigation, we cannot judge exactly what will happen again, despite the comprehensible objectives set, and therefore the MSZP fraction will remain. Thank you.
u2020-12-15-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is also Mr László Szakács from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Not drawing the time, but repeating what we said in the previous debate: unfortunately, we have seen it, and since then we have received a lot of signs that have been said here earlier by Mr Keresztes Group leader and Gyula Molnár, that, indeed, there are many places where miners are mined without permission, where this law would, say, give us the opportunity to make certain further abuses or even legalize them. On the other hand, you see, and a lot of people come to us here, where there is no other legal option, because the authorities do not stand up for the owners in such a way that the mining business itself wishes to extend its operation with inadequate attitude, behaviour and inadequate compensation. The goals to be set, the strategic importance of our domestic supply, I think we have all recognised, recognised, and obviously the steps taken in this direction must also be respected, but also the property of other people must be respected. We have received many signals, Mr Secretary of State, where, indeed, you can see that mining entrepreneurs do not necessarily choose in all the instruments how to produce certain areas. Therefore, if there is a need to broaden the activity itself or the areas where these work can be carried out, at some level if these regulations need to be relaxed, do not at least relax in their control, and I would ask them to contact professional organisations in the same way and to draw their attention to this, as they do to everyone else. All my fellow Members, I believe, have said this in the debate, in proportion to each of their temperament in these matters, in the same volume as in the wording. I would just like to translate a definite request to the Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2020-12-15-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will now ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, as rapporteur, that he wishes to speak in the closet. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-12-15-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to emphasise, in closing the debate on the bill, that the need for the sustainability of the economic economy over the last decade and the need to address the negative economic impact of the pandemic situation at the beginning of 2020.In spring 2020, the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service carried out a country-wide review of the geological and productive quantities of raw materials relevant to the construction sector, and these analyses showed that Hungary would be able to provide its own supply of construction raw materials for decades in principle. At the same time, soil protection factors affecting access to mineral raw materials, including land protection factors, will drastically reduce the amount and use of supplies that can be planned for supply. The current bill aims to remove these barriers in this area from strengthening our sovereignty, from ensuring our own supply of construction materials, so, as in the previous cases, this bill serves to strengthen our energy sovereignty and supply independence in another area of energy. In addition, the purpose of the bill before you is to propose legislative amendments in order to support the research and extraction of domestic construction materials. I would like to stress that the Hungarian Mining Association, which also composed forty-three domestic construction materials mines, was also continuously involved in the preparation of the legislative amendments. [[14.40]] The amendments proposed in the Mining Act make it possible to ensure an efficient and immediate supply of mineral resources for domestic construction, thus guaranteeing the need for imports and increasing security of supply in cases where the natural characteristics of the country make this possible. It should be ensured that in all cases where domestic mines are unable to meet demand as a result of the epidemic situation, the State will be given the means to deal with the problem immediately. Dear House, The amendments give the authority to the organisation exercising public ownership rights to catalyse the research and production processes by finding new sites and to improve the supply of raw materials and make new investments safer by preventing the closure of mines for economic reasons or the interruption of production. In order for the State to use its natural resources available through mining with good economic care, it is necessary to eliminate unjustified land reservations and to ensure the state's right of pre-emption on the properties affected by certain mining activities. According to this, in the event of the transfer of ownership of the property covered by mining rights relating to mineral raw materials which are protected by the right to buy, the Hungarian State shall have the right of pre-emption in the event of the adoption of the law. Dear Parliament, While 15 mining sites were established in 2019 in 12 months, an application for the establishment or modification of some 19 new mining sites in the context of the raw materials concerned was submitted in only two months from the beginning of August 2020. In order to continue the above positive trend, it is necessary to eliminate unjustified land reservations and to maintain the rules introduced in the event of an emergency after 31 December 2020 in order to ensure the right to buy public land on certain properties affected by mining activities. And let me respond to what has been said in the previous debate insofar as, of course, we consider the goal of re-use of construction debris to be of particular importance for the government as well. Today, Parliament voted on a comprehensive set of laws that will legislate the main goals of the circular economy in Hungary, where the objectives of achieving a much higher level of waste processing of this type are fundamental. I am very confident that the parties that consider this recycling important will also vote in favour of this package of laws aimed at achieving the circular economy in Hungary. Nevertheless, on the basis of the debate that has been held, I would also ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. The debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/13678. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-117	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 3 December 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13678 amending the Law on Electricity 2007 Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The need for this bill is due to the implementation of the objectives of the national energy strategy 2030, on the one hand, and the fulfilment of the obligation to harmonise legislation on the other. The main objective of the energy strategy is to ensure clean, smart, affordable energy by focusing on the consumer, climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector, strengthening the security of our energy supply, harnessing the economic development potential of energy innovation and climate change. These objectives can be achieved, inter alia, through the expansion of renewable electricity generation, the more active presence of consumers on the market and the emergence of new market players and new functions. The secondary objective of the proposal is to fulfil the obligations of harmonisation of the provisions of the Internal Market Directive, which forms part of the European Union's clean energy package, in a manner consistent with the energy strategy's criteria. Consumers play a central role in creating a flexible and competitive electricity market environment, which is necessary for the transition of the electricity system to diverse, renewable and shared electricity generation. In this spirit, the bill sets out new actors and roles, which play a prominent role in the transformation of the energy sector, based on decarbonisation, digitalisation and partial decentralisation, in the model of the future European and domestic energy market. In addition to active energy consumers, such a new player is an aggregateer capable of effectively pooling the energy community and individual decentralised consumer and producer capacities. The bill strengthens consumer protection provisions, setting out the terms and conditions of the termination fee applicable to consumers in the course of a trade change. The bill excludes the application of the termination fee to facilitate consumer choice for retail and small business consumers. The bill also provides for a shortening of the technical process of trading, which should be possible within 24 hours thereafter, so that the process of trading is accelerated. In view of what has been said, we ask for the support of the proposal submitted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask the rapporteur, on behalf of Mr Péter Kaderjak, whether he would like to speak now or only in the closing section. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says it's in the closet. I would like to inform you, Secretary of State, that you will have a 15-minute deadline for closing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not set up a rapporteur, and so here are the speeches by its Members in the time frame on the agenda, which can all be monitored from the table's position. I would also like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-119	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Mr Secretary of State has just swept off the proposal in a simple motion in the debate on another amendment that László Szakács and the MSZP faction have recommended to him in the form of an amendment. We're saying that you could have access to water, electricity and gas supplies, and you said that you wanted to do this differently. We believe that this would be justified on a social basis, all the more so, since many operators have reported that they have accounts that they cannot collect, so they know precisely that these are irrecoverable claims, and this is serious, for example, in companies, and also causes administrative and other problems. Therefore, it would be easier if there were a minimum available to all. The other, which my fellow Member and colleague Gyula Molnár have also talked about, is the equipment of meters that would be card meters on the one hand, and to tie them back up free of charge. A number of proposals have been made by my fellow cook, none of which have been dealt with in substance by the government or by the majority in Parliament. Therefore, we say that even if harmonisation obligations have to be met, much more could be done in the context of this amendment. Therefore, the MSZP does not support this. Thank you. [[14.50]]
u2020-12-15-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Now, I would like to ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, to present what he has to say in the closing remarks. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will only be very brief with this closing word, because on behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr Péter Ágh has already summarized all the technical details on this proposal for an amendment that form the essence of the details. I would just like to draw the attention of the honourable Parliament that this bill is crucial in the sense that Hungary's long-term commitment to becoming a climate-neutral country by 2050 is the basis for this path. I would like to point out that this 2050 climate neutrality from the government side is this year's LXIV. When preparing bill No.1, the government referred it to Parliament, which was then adopted by Parliament. I would like to point out that last week we also agreed at European level that the EU will increase its climate protection ambition at EU level by 2030, from 40% to 55 percent of the target that we want to achieve in the area of emission reduction, and we supported this commitment from Hungary. So the government is fully committed to climate protection and clean energy production, and we are pursuing such a policy, and the current bill, once again, plays a key role in achieving this goal, since the essence of the bill is to promote the integration of electricity production on a clean, renewable basis, carbon neutral basis, and to put consumers at the heart of electricity market regulation. That is why I ask all Members who are committed to the climate protection objectives to support the adoption of this bill with their vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We now have the debate on the Commission's reports on the declaration of King's Hill of Cancer as a national memorial and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/13658. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13658 on the declaration of King's Hill in Cancer Field as a national memorial place. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 35 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, The site of the fate-changing deliberations of Hungarian history, the Király Hill, is at risk of integration and, consequently, the danger of collective oblivion. To preserve a place of great importance for the nation's past and to revive it in the memory of Hungarians, the Király Hill should be declared a national memorial place. There is something fateful about the fact that this bill will be on the table of the House in the year of national integration, i.e. the year 2020 because the Király Hill played an extremely important role in the history of Hungary. 35 Parliaments were held here, where the spirit of the order, medieval and modern constitutionalism, which appeared in the Arpadian era until the Turkish occupation, was embodied, as the common nobility could appear here in person. This is where Róbert Károly was elected as ruler, followed by unprecedented economic development, serious central power strengthening, internal order and external conquest. It could also be mentioned that the order of Crabos was issued in 1505 in which orders stated that a king cannot be brought from a foreign rulership to Hungary. This historical document is also an example of the fact that, up until the Turkish occupation, the country was protected at the order assembly, and they were important grounds for their constitutionality. Dear House, These historical events also emphasize that the Crab Hill has become a symbol of national sovereignty and popular representation in our national history. The submitted bill should be supported, as it is essential to preserve the national past and the sites of high importance, and to properly revive them in the memory of the Hungarians, in order to strengthen the sense of national cohesion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I would like to ask Mr István György, State Secretary, whether he would like to speak on behalf of the authors, or to sum up his thoughts in the closing section. [[Dr. István György: In the closing word.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have a 15-minute deadline for closing. I would also like to inform this House that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This is a proposal on which I hope that we will vote in favour of tomorrow with full consensus. This is indeed an extremely important national case, and it must be dealt with in such an epidemiological situation. We remember that when the general debate began, there were opposition issues that did not need to be dealt with, because only defence-related matters could now be brought before the Parliament; I also expressed my disagreement. Obviously, the most important thing now is defence, economic protection, but the Parliament still works, regardless, and we are talking about a case where there is an immediate urge to act. We know that a very important historical site is the Király Hill of Crabs, and we also see that, unfortunately, due to a very, very serious omission, about half of this hill has already been built, and in fact, the part where the king's tent once stood, the highest part of the hill can be seen as a residential area, where buildings are already standing. The current regulatory plan, the current planning in the area currently managed by the municipality, also calls for further integration, so we really need to act, prevent the Királydomb from being fully incorporated, and it is a matter of urgency to vote tomorrow to make it a national memorial place, this is very important. I would also like to thank the Hungarian Patriot Community here in the summary debate for drawing attention to this and making such a motion, which has been thrown into the public address, that we need to talk about it, that we need to act, that is very important. You can see that in the current regulatory plan, I don't know, six or seven years ago, a proposal was made to set up a memorial site here, but that it should be a national memorial place, indeed, it was proposed by the Hungarian Patriot Community. By the way, when they published this on their website, I contacted them and tried to find out about it, and I even talked to Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary about how to speed up this process. I'm glad this is finally here. As I said in the general debate, I am a little sorry that this proposal itself covers a relatively small area, so in particular it would now qualify a narrow part of the upper part of the Király Hill as a national memorial. I would prefer that the entire area of the still open, unbuilt King's Hill be a national memorial; I do not know if there will be any further steps in this connection. Obviously, this is also an important step, but I think it would have been a complete success if it had been possible to do so, but let us be glad that this part here is truly a national memorial place, and in this way it can be prevented from being incorporated. Obviously, it will be very important, and this cannot be the intention of the proposal to give a detailed description of what memorial will be made, what cooperation will be established with the municipality. I am very confident that cooperation will be positive, and indeed here a worthy memorial park will be created with a monument that will truly commemorate posterity as well. We're talking about a very important place for medieval Parliaments. I trust that this can develop in the next period. [[15.00]] It is also important, of course, that the country or government conduct appropriate consultations with the local government in this regard, but as I have seen here in recent months, the municipality is also open to this question. There is one more thing I would like to raise and, unfortunately, it is necessary to raise it. The general debate ended in a very unfair way. Our municipal representative, Balázs Tóth, died in tragic circumstances, and then, I do not know, a strange political statement was important, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, to point out to the LMP that he did not attend the board meeting on the decision. Then I said, and I would like to confirm that both the LMP and the municipal representative Balázs Tóth took this issue to heart, participated in this work, and the reason why LMP could not take part in the decision-making at municipal level is because MEP Balázs Tóth passed away in tragic circumstances, at a young age, and our new representative, who has taken an oath since then, Bernadett Bakos, even though he has not been in office, has not yet taken his oath when the municipality had to take a decision on this issue. That's what I wanted to make clear in the Parliament's record that I feel this was a very misplaced political statement. However, I would also like to say, for the record, that we have clarified this on the phone with Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary. So thank you very much to the authors, thank you once again to the Hungarian Patriots who initiated this, and I can tell you that the LMP faction will be happy to vote in favour tomorrow, and I very much hope that the decision will be complete and unanimous in this respect, and that each faction will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-12-15-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Attila Mesterházy is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP fraction supports the submission. Thank you. [[Continue in 176/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 15 December 2020 176/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2020-12-15-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would now like to ask Mr István György, on behalf of the rapporteur, to summarise in the closing remarks all the thoughts that he thought would be important in the debate. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the declaration of King's Hill of Crab Mezes as a national memorial took place on 17 November 2020 and the Cultural Committee on 24 November 2020 and, as has already been said, the Legislative Committee discussed the bill on 3 December 2020. The Rákosmező, which represents the traditional location of the Hungarian Parliaments in the Middle Ages, is of particular importance in Hungary's history of constitutional and parliamentarism. This has already been said, but let me mention this: a total of 35 parliamentary meetings were held on the Király Hill in a documented manner. Its cancer field is XIII. From the second half of the 20th century onwards, it served as a place for national meetings, primarily for king's election and war, so the area was undoubtedly one of the centers of the country in political terms. The role of Rákos' field in the constitutional and parliamentary development of Hungary was played by the XV. At the end of the century, the cancer diet became the permanent parliamentary assembly where national decisions were made with the personal presence of the common nobility. Parliamentary meetings were held here between 1277-1540. It is appropriate that the National Assembly recognize it as a national memorial place in order to preserve a site of high importance for the nation's past. The Government of Hungary is committed to maintaining historical values for posterity. The Crab Hill meets all the legal requirements and conditions under which a site can be declared a national memorial place, and with this gesture it pays off an old debt by finally indicating the location of the former Hungarian Parliaments. I would like to draw the Parliament's attention to the fact that, under the current legislation, the National Heritage Institute is responsible for preparing the declaration of a memorial, as well as for administrative and control tasks related to memorial sites. These tasks include sending the minister a plan of use from the memorial place within one year of the declaration of a national memorial. Dear House, What was once referred to as King's Hill is now located in the X. district of the capital, in an area bordered by the streets of Nagyicce, Pilisi, Dorogi. The western side of the geographical rise has now been integrated with residential houses, as Mr. Group Leader has already pointed out, this is a regrettable fact, but we cannot change that. The eastern part of the high is still a freely accessible area, so it can fulfil the function of the national memorial. The protection concerns or will affect an area of 8853 sq m in the case of Királydomb, which is currently owned by the X. district municipality of the capital. As the group leader, Mr László Keresztes referred to, the body of representatives in Kőbány unanimously supported the declaration of national monument. You have already remembered the unfortunate death, so I myself apologize for this statement, but you did not know, Mr Deputy Minister, the sad fact that, unfortunately, the Member was no longer alive at the time. For the Hungarian government, it is important to preserve national cohesion, the national past and the relevant important sites. Let's take another step together to preserve the noble memories of the past. To this end, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill to declare King's Hill of Cancer as a national memorial. I would like to thank the factions for their support, and the speakers assured us that the LMP fraction and the MSZP fraction would support it. I want to thank you for that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-12-15-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws with administrative burdens for customers and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral T/13674. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 3 December 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws containing administrative burdens for customers T/13674. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 29 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table fully fits into the government's bureaucracy reduction action programme, which aims to enable citizens to deal with their affairs as quickly, cheaply and comfortably as possible, under professional conditions. Article XXIV of the Fundamental Law Article 1 (1) of the Act reads as follows: "Everyone has the right to be dealt with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. In order to ensure that this constitutional requirement is met, the Public Administration and Public Service Development Strategy 2014-2020 also set out the goal of ensuring that by 2020 the Hungarian public administration operates in an organised, consistent and transparent institutional structure, modern and customer-friendly procedure, accessible to all citizens, with professional and highly professional staff, ethical and motivated staff, within the organisational framework required by today's modern environment and cost-effectively, with the minimum administrative burden, competitive service fees and short-time working time limits. However, in addition to the successes achieved, a continuous review of the legislation is essential. [[15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it should be stressed that the introduction of electronic forms based on projects under the operational programme for public administration and public service development is also envisaged in the present proposal. It should be noted that 449 government offices have developed electronic forms. As an example, applications for environmental permits, including csed, ged or even environmental permits, will in future become e-formable. According to the draft, the competent district office will no longer need to appoint an expert when setting a child's home care fee in cases where the child's rehabilitation is not recommended, including significant health damage and is not capable of self-sufficiency at all or only with assistance. The Central Statistical Office also has an undisputed role in enabling decision-makers to find information on the basis of up-to-date and important data collected from an appropriate and credible source. It is therefore essential that KSH is able to contact reporting agents in the most efficient way possible, by avoiding personal contact, for example during the epidemic situation. In this way, the number of subscriber stations and the personal data of subscribers will be received by KSH in the future, instead of by the postal route, the personal and the interviewing commissioner personally, so that the person appointed to the reporting agents can be contacted by telephone in the future. Reading through the text of the draft, we can see that there are a number of facilitations available to entrepreneurs, such as the possibility for self-employed persons to initiate an application for registration at the NAV at the same time as the start of self-employed activities. Dear House, The main aim of the proposal before us is to reduce bureaucracy and to facilitate the administration of administrative matters, to make them faster and more effective, which will clearly be for the benefit of Hungarian citizens. In view of all this, the bill should be supported. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr István György, on behalf of the rapporteur, that he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. Then I'll inform the Secretary of State that you'll have a 15-minute window at your disposal for closing hours. I will also inform this House that the designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches by the Members are now taking place in the time frame corresponding to the item on the agenda, which is on the billboard and can be followed up by all of us. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP fraction and myself are all initiatives that make the lives of citizens or companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, easier. There are a number of such initiatives in this bill, which, as my fellow Member Héjj said, are suitable for achieving these objectives, but there are some minor comments that are of concern to us, and therefore the MSZP fraction has decided to abstain for the time being. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the opportunity to close to Secretary of State István György. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, For the sake of record loyalty: the general debate of the bill was held by this House on 20 November 2020. Subsequently, on 24 November and as was said by the Legislative Committee on 3 December, the bill was put on the agenda. The cumulative amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee has left the Housing Act with the power to lay down the legal provisions and arrangements for the acquisition of land other than land used for agriculture and forestry purposes of a foreign legal or natural person's ownership. However, it has determined that the administrative action relating to health insurance benefits should be brought against the competent health insurance body at the place where the employer is established, if the decision has been taken by the paying agent and the court in whose territory the applicant has his place of residence, unless the employer has its place of business. The Committee stated that information on the cessation of individual business activities, the cessation of interruptions and the removal from the register should also be communicated to the Chamber of Regional Economy. It specified that the administrative service fee for the application for a change in the name of birth was the revenue of the determining authority and finally clarified the text of the bill in that the payment service provider could only communicate the opening of the payment account to the municipality of the home municipality, not to the local authorities of the premises. In addition, the summarised amendment included codification clarifications and correction of the entry into force provisions. In response to the points raised in the general debate, the bill addresses the needs of administrative burden reduction in a number of areas of public administration that have arisen during the operation of government offices. The bill provides for changes related to, inter alia, IT developments and IT changes on the previously designated path, thus facilitating the acceleration of official procedures and the replacement and automation of the currently mandatory data. One of the government's objectives is to make public administration electronic, in which the State of service provides comfort and speed in handling citizens' daily affairs. We know that access to the Internet is not an obvious feature for everyone, there are those who cannot use the comfort services provided by electronic administration for financial or other reasons. However, they are not left alone. Government windows will continue to receive customer and postal submissions in person, the local adjutant will continue to be available to customers in the future, and government window buses in all counties will be available to help those who can handle their affairs only with the help of these buses because of the lack of family infrastructure. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the contributions made in the general debate which acknowledged the steps taken in the bill to reduce bureaucracy. Please vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the simplification and electronicisation of civil status procedures and the amendment of certain related laws are now under discussion and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/13670. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal is being discussed as a nationality point by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mr Péter Ágh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13670, on the simplification, electronicisation of civil status procedures and the amendment of certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 29 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the number of cases and procedural actions that can be dealt with electronically is increasing rapidly. The importance of this is even more appreciated in the current epidemiological situation, and it becomes evident how much electronicization makes our lives easier. [[15.20]] The purpose of this bill is to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and public authorities, and to extend the scope of electronic affairs. The proposal is also aimed at addressing legislative and interpretation anomalies in the field of civil status administration. The purpose of the amendment to the Civil Procedure Act is twofold: to simplify procedures and to extend the scope of electronic procedures. These changes are as follows. From the Metropolitan Government Office, the registrar is responsible for the procedure for changing the marriage name. The procedure for amending the first name is added to the register procedures. Under the current rules, leaving a first name from the first names entered in the register and replacing the order of the first names is only possible by allowing a change of name, which may be a longer and more complicated process. On the basis of this amendment, it will also be possible to modify the data without conducting an authorisation procedure and on the basis of a notification. In view of a parent with Hungarian and foreign citizenship, the child will be able to register a name in accordance with foreign law without proving the child's foreign nationality. The requirement to publish the first nationality register in electronic form will ensure more effective use of nationality names. Dear Parliament, As regards civil matters, it is currently only possible to apply for an electronic registration document in a narrow manner. In order to electronicise the procedures, the bill proposes the following procedures to be dealt with by electronic means: changes in the form of marriage names in accordance with the civil code, nationality names, first name changes, application for a change of name, application for a marriage certificate by legal representative and authorised means. Thus, in the future, electronic administration will be possible in the cases listed, which are common on weekdays, which significantly facilitates everyday life. Dear House, By amending the rules of competence and procedure, the bill simplifies and accelerates the registration procedures further, and facilitates the more efficient provision of tasks for law-abiding and for the uniform application of the law. In view of what has been said, we ask for the support of the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would now like to ask your rapporteur, Mr István György, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. So I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a 15-minute deadline for closing. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Justice Committee has not appointed a rapporteur. As we are discussing this item as a minority item, I give the floor to Mrs Brigitta Szuperák, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of her speech in the language of nationality, and then continue it in Hungarian. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2020-12-15-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ Збори! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Dear House, At its meeting on 24 November 2020, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held the T/13670, on the simplification and electronicisation of civil status procedures and on the amendment of certain related laws. The detailed discussion of draft law No 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 44-45. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it complied with the 10/2014 parliamentary resolution on certain house rules. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. No amendments were tabled to the bill by its representatives and no intention was expressed by the committee to make further amendments. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 24 November 2020. The legislative proposal as a whole is aimed primarily at simplifying and thus speeding up the registration procedures and facilitating the more efficient provision of tasks for law-abiding people. The Hungarian citizen bears the birth or marriage name he deserves. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use individual names in their own language. For us nationalities, perhaps the most important part of the amendment is that the provisions relating to nationality naming ensure easier access to the first nationality register and thus enable the right to bear the nationality name to be exercised more effectively. Overall, the legislative amendment proposal before us simplifies and accelerates the registration procedures by amending the rules of competence and procedural rules and establishes a legal framework for the electronic initiation of procedures for applications. These amendments will in any case strengthen the performance of tasks more effectively. Dear Parliament, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the simplification and electronicisation of civil status procedures and on the amendment of certain related laws T/13670. The Commission proposes to adopt bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуņза увагу. [[It is a rare applause in the ranks of pro-government representatives and ethnic advocates.]]
u2020-12-15-140	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which we can all follow from the billboard. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches in this debate. I will ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As we have heard from the presentation, the goals set, especially in view of the pandemic, when the most things that can be done are the people who try to do it online, then of course everyone agrees with these goals. As my former colleague, Gyula Molnár, and I have confirmed here among ourselves, it can be said that such efforts can be supported. But everyday life comes next to it, and unfortunately, there is a desire for a "but" here, because if legal documents and official certificates are to be issued online within the administration system, everyone will be happy, because not even the paper travels, but only the bits travel, let alone the client travels. However, we must see that, both in terms of burden and in terms of technical conditions and in terms of preparedness, very many conditions have not yet been met that would require proper implementation of this legislation. In addition, we have said our legal concerns earlier, several of my fellow Members, and I will not repeat them here, but we clearly see that at this moment the administration is not prepared to do so, but it is unfortunately not enough to write a law about it, which will not be available to everyone. We are glad that if there is such an ambition, there is finally such an ambition, and we hope that the conditions will soon be created and legal concerns will be eliminated. In that case, we will be able to support the proposal, so the MSZP will abstain. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-15-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr István György, State Secretary, that he now wishes to give his opinion as a closing point. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[15.30]]
u2020-12-15-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The general debate of the bill was held by this House on 20 November 2020 and the Justice Committee and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary put it on the agenda on 24 November and the Legislative Committee on 10 December 2020. The Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate was submitted by the Judicial Committee, which was accompanied by language and codification clarifications, while the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee was aimed at a minor technical clarification. The bill before us is based on the practical experience and observations of the civil servants and the metropolitan and county government offices designated as civil servants. A total of 257 proposals received by the Prime Minister's Office defined the consistency and clarification of the application of the law, and this was also the purpose of the bill. The amendments help to reduce administrative burdens for both public authorities and citizens and simplify procedures in particular through the planned further electronicisation of civil status procedures. The adoption of the bill creates the legal background for the electronic initiative of civil status procedures involving a wide range of citizens. The appointed speaker of the Legislative Committee gave a detailed description of the substance of the bill, so I would rather overlook that. I would also like to say that the proposal itself has been designed as a coherent regulation that is easy to understand, which, in addition to facilitating the work of the law-abiding people, will make the procedures more predictable, faster and simpler for citizens, for which I ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the operation of the National Commercial Register system and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal are now in order. The government referral T/13671. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 3 December 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws necessary for the operation of the national commercial registration system T/13671. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us envisages amending the sectoral rules necessary for the proper application of the national trade registration system implementing ten types of trade and service registers at national level in order to establish and ensure the coherence of the legal system. The establishment of OKNYR made it necessary to review the data of commercial and other service providers, operators of official registers and to amend the sectoral legislation for the proper functioning of the system. In the case of registers falling within the competence of the metropolitan metropolitan notary as a commercial authority, as well as as as as a local authority authorising service activities and designated as a authority for the supervision of the service, it is necessary to clarify the functions associated with the management of the registers in accordance with the introduction of a new national register. It is also necessary to introduce provisions on the disclosure of data in the register from government regulations, given that they have been recorded at a legal level in order to avoid duplication of rules. Dear House, The proposal also complies with the EU legal harmonisation obligation with regard to the establishment of a national register of real estate intermediaries and property valuer and intermediary service providers. According to legal provisions, a central register is currently in operation of the Zala County Government Office in parallel with the notary records under the name of a commercial registration system. The aim of OKNYIR is, on the one hand, to replace this non-public-credit system with an improved IT system containing up-to-date data and to make it public-credited, while integrating local-level records into the new national system. Therefore, we respectfully ask for your support.
u2020-12-15-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would now like to ask Mr István György, on behalf of the rapporteur, that he would like to speak now. [[Dr. István György: No.]] I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a 15-minute deadline for closing. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, and there is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. I now give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains basically technical amendments, but it also contains substantive amendments, so after considering these, the MSZP fraction will decide to abstain. Thank you.
u2020-12-15-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would now like to ask Mr István György, State Secretary, if he would like to comment on what has been said in the debate and, overall, to keep the closing word. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The general debate on the bill before you was held on 20 November 2020 and on 10 November 2020 by the Economic Committee. At its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a summary amendment of the bill, consisting of 8 points, which proposed, in particular, to repeal the provisions of the Law on condominiums which already exist on the criminal record system, the registration of judgments given by the courts of the Member States of the European Union against Hungarian citizens and the registration of criminal and police biometric data in order to avoid parallel regulation. For the same reason, the Housing Act shall not be supplemented by provisions providing for a special provision for the administrative authority to request data from the criminal record. Dear House, For years, the government has been committed to implementing measures to facilitate the lives of citizens and to help the enforcement of public law. With the bill amending certain laws necessary for the operation of the national commercial registration system, we lay the foundations for a national, public and public register. In order to facilitate the work of the notaries of the municipal notaries, district offices or the municipal municipality of the county seat, with the national commercial registration system, OKNYIR in short, an up-to-date register will be carried out in support of public credibility. The aim is to replace the national commercial registration system with an improved IT system containing up-to-date data and to make it publicly credible, and to integrate and standardise data from local registers in the new national system, thus eliminating duplication of data and recording in multiple systems at the same time. The aim of the OKNYIR was to standardise a total of 10 registers: the register of shops, the register of dealers, the register of fairs, the register of markets, the register of local producer markets, the register of shopping centres, the managers of condominium services, property managers, real estate brokers, and the register of property valuers and intermediaries. [[15.40]] With the implementation of the national trade register, currently independently registered reporting and licensing commercial activities and certain service activities will be monitored nationally in a uniform, transparent and efficient system for citizens, authorities and competent organisations. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The year 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest follows. The debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/13664. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the issue of Article XIII of 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. T/13664. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 34 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, During the period of the first Orbán government, in 2000, the Parliament adopted the Act XIII of 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. Law. The purpose of the law was to ensure that certain things that were acquired by public confiscation did not only reach the needy on a campaign basis, and that they were properly taken into account in the interests of the various interests, in particular those of the rightholder who was violated by the ownership of intellectual property. Thanks to the law, certain things and objects confiscated in criminal proceedings and infringement proceedings can be used for charitable, charitable purposes. In many cases, for example, false - branded clothing and toys may be confiscated. These can be distributed as donations to those in need after the so-called brand debranding. In the last 20 years, an average of HUF 100 million was donated annually to those in need. Without the law, the seized items would unfortunately be destroyed and thus deprived of aid to those in need of help. More than 20 years have passed since the adoption of the law on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. The amendment has become necessary today. The bill before us gives us the opportunity not only to provide for confiscated things and objects to an extent that does not exceed individual needs, as has been the case so far, but also to make use of them at institutional level. Through the institutions of charitable organisations, the bill allows for greater value to be used for those in need, or not for individual use in their nature, in the interests of those in need. In this case, you can think of confiscated objects or tools that are otherwise designed for so - called large users. These include, for example, machinery, equipment of a plant, or vehicles owned by the State, which were used to commit a criminal offence. Current legislation does not currently allow these charitable organisations to use it. Dear House, The proposal has been drawn up on the basis of feedback and practical experience from charities, taking into account the lessons learned over the last 20 years. The proposal submitted should be supported as it expands the scope of charitable use and creates the possibility of making more valuable use of things and objects through the institutions of charitable organisations for charity purposes, thus helping those in need. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask the rapporteur, on behalf of Mr Miklós Soltész, whether he wishes to speak, or if he will only respond in the closet. [[Miklós Soltész says no.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have a 15-minute deadline for closing. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think the objective set out in this proposal is right and good, and I think that it is also suitable for achieving the objectives. We believe there is a place for such an initiative, which is why the MSZP fraction will support the proposal.
u2020-12-15-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa of the KDNP Group is now taking the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to take the opportunity in the detailed debate to thank the charitable organisations for the work they are doing now in behalf of the people in need who need help during this Advent period, when we are also fighting the epidemic. This is where the thanks, respect and recognition come from, both volunteers and those of the charitable organisations. I think that, as we have said in the general debate, the current bill will significantly speed up and will significantly help us to use confiscated things in the public interest so that sin can become a virtue and help. That's why we support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés, on behalf of the rapporteur, in closing. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, as the Commission spoke and the Members said, this law is now more than twenty years old and was created by the first Orbán government. It was a very important decision then. Thank you very much to both the Committee on Welfare and the Legislative Committee for providing legal and linguistic clarification with their summarizing amendments. I would like to thank the charitable organisations very much for the fact that, on the basis of 20 years of experience, which has changed in many respects, especially with regard to our membership of the European Union, they have contributed to the fact that we can now amend the law, from which I would highlight one thing in particular, and that is that, to date, there has been no possibility of making charitable use of the enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority. This has now been done, and, of course, the various laws have also been harmonised in the context of the bill. Thank you very much to all those who have helped with this in the various apparatuss. It was not easy to do all this, but I believe that many good purposes will be served by the transfer of new objects, which are actually seized from crime and can be used for good. In particular, I would like to highlight the charitable organisations, members of the Charity Council, the Catholic Charity, the Maltese Charity Service, the Ecumenical Relief Organisation, the Hungarian Red Cross, the Baptist Love Service and the Reformed Love Service, which, in summary, will enable the wider use of confiscated things for the benefit of people in need; and it will also be possible, not only for their benefit, but also for the benefit of institutions, to use more valuable things that have been confiscated in the general debate and to allow the institutional level to be used in addition to the individual needs, as I said, whether in social homes or in other needed circles. Thank you all very much for your support. Tomorrow we'll vote on this bill, I hope 100 percent, and then we'll leave before Christmas. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. In fact, Mr Secretary of State took away my bread when he said that the decisions would take place tomorrow. It is still my duty to inform you of this. Dear Parliament, Next up is the XXVII of 2020 on support from the parliamentary group. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. [[15.50]] The submission submitted by our fellow Members with Mr Máté Kocsis, László Böröcz, Tibor Pogácsás fideszes and István Simicskó KDNP T/13928. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I will now ask Mr László Böröcz, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he wishes to speak.
u2020-12-15-159	At the end!
u2020-12-15-160	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you will have a 15-minute timeframe at the end. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate and that the designated Judicial Committee had not issued a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representing the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I believe that the proposal serves all parties' operating conditions and capabilities and opportunities, and I therefore think that this is a good initiative. Nevertheless, the faction of the MSZP decided to abstain. Thank you.
u2020-12-15-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I take the floor from the LMP Group to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-12-15-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Not much, but I'll be a little longer in my comment than Attila Mesterházy. I also said in the general debate that we agree with the principle expressed by the government that everyone should play their part in such a difficult situation, but I would be even happier if that were the case. We can see that the government has decided to make some pretty brutal cuts. Basically, it hit the municipalities, and in several circles it took an amazing amount of resources from the municipalities. It also reached the university sphere of austerity, nearly HUF 20 billion was taken from the operating costs side of the university sphere. I think that was a huge mistake, and I really hope that you will reconsider this decision. You can clearly see the devastating effects of these austerity measures, especially in the case of small settlements. There are major cities in a more difficult economic situation where these restrictions have also been severely destroyed, and obviously we will see the effects of them fully later. We didn't have a word to say about the fact that half of the parties' state support this year was withdrawn on this basis, so that everyone would take their part in the defense. I understand that was less than 2 billion forints. However, I resent it, and I would like to say that not so long ago at the meeting of the Economic Committee with this slogan, that everyone really should take their part in the defence, when the Hungarian economy is in such a difficult situation, and Hungarian society has suggested that they take their part in the defence, the relief of economic damage, your oligarchs, the national oligarchs, Lőrincek Mészáros, László Szíyi and the rest. Our proposal in this regard was rejected by the Economic Committee. That was an infinitely hypocritical attitude. I think it is important to say that half of all parties' state support has been withdrawn. That's 2 billion forints. Let us see, however, that Lőrinc Mészáros and László Szíyj's companies have won procurements worth HUF 2000 billion in the last narrow decade! After Lőrinc Mészáros's companies, he took 25 billion forints of dividends last year, this year he took 11.5 billion forints for his companies. I think it would be the real step, the truly honest and logical step on the part of the government, if it could create the possibility that the oligarchs that you have fattened up over the past period would give back from the hundreds of billions to the extremely difficult situation of Hungarian families that you have won over the past period. Nevertheless, I believe that this proposal is entirely logical, that parliamentary factions cannot be separated from parties. We are here on behalf of the parliamentary parties that started in the election, and I think it is entirely logical that the parliamentary faction can support the mother party against its savings. I can say that the LMP fraction will vote in favour of this proposal tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would ask Mr László Böröcz, on behalf of the authors, to keep the closing statement. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keres, did not exactly talk about the bill, but brought a completely different subject here, so I would like to respond very briefly. Basically, the purpose of the legislative amendment is, as has been said many times, to allow the factions to transfer funds from their savings to the parties, because the parties are actually taking part in the fight against the epidemic through their volunteers. In both Fidesz and the opposition parties, a great many actions have been launched to help the elderly, the middle-aged, the population. However, I would like to respond to Mr President's sentences that austerity measures, which affect the population and businesses, have so far only left-wing governments have tried to introduce them in Hungary, unlike the government. Each of the government's measures focused on supporting investments that can protect jobs and create new jobs. And the Marxist way of thinking about taking profits from companies because they make profits, I can't really place them. Basically, I think it is particularly useful for Hungarian companies to be able to win Hungarian public procurement and to invest realised profits in Hungary. I wish that as many of these Hungarian businesses as possible and as many Hungarian companies as possible to triumph in public procurement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, It follows now that the report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion and the joint debate on the proposal for a decision on the adoption of the five draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, which constitute the Pact on Asylum and Migration, will follow in an exceptional procedure. Report from the Committee on European Affairs B/14334. and the proposal for a decision is H/14335. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear House, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor to the Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time-frame of 25 minutes for opening speeches, further speeches in the debate and any closing words. So by the time we close, it's gonna be as much less as the expo we're about to hear is gonna be out of 25 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik as rapporteur. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a rare and honored occasion for the chairman of a standing committee to address the plenary session as a rapporteur. This debate is the result of a special parliamentary procedure, if I remember correctly, which was the last procedure in this House in 2016, and this is the seventh such procedure in Parliament. It is also special in the context of the adoption of five reasoned opinions by a decision. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in December 2009, national parliaments have had the right to ex ante control of the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is not an easy task, because subsidiarity is like a needle in a haystack: it is hidden and difficult to find and it is difficult to define. In a previous speech on this subject, I described the relationship between the European Commission and the Member States as a comparison between David and Goliath. [[16.00]] Unfortunately, this statement is still valid today, because the Brussels institution has several advantages, and the Commission decides when and when to adopt a draft legislation or content. You have the possibility of prior consultation and, of course, you can rely on an unlimited number of well-paid experts. Ladies and gentlemen, Our current item concerns the five draft regulations on the asylum and migration pact presented by the European Commission on 23 September 2020. Allow me to briefly describe these in telegram style only. 1. Management of asylum and migration. 2. establishing common procedures for international protection within the Union. 3. Introduction of pre-screening of third-country nationals at external borders. 4. Addressing migration and asylum crises and situations of force majeure. 5. Draft regulation amending Eurodac on the comparison of biometric data. The Committee on European Affairs established the breach of the principle of subsidiarity at its meeting on 14 December 2020 on these drafts, and we therefore initiated the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of our agenda is not unprecedented, I must say. The European Commission presented similar proposals to address the situation as a result of the migration crisis in 2015 as early as autumn 2015 and spring 16. The most controversial point was the automatic relocation mechanism for asylum seekers. Unfortunately, the draft Dublin IV regulation, which is part of the 2016 asylum package, was not intended to stop illegal migration or to strengthen external borders, but was intended to distribute migrants, without taking into account the circumstances of the Member States. This is precisely why the Parliament established the breach of the principle of subsidiarity in November 2015 and June 2016 in relation to the amendment of the Dublin III draft regulation. The draft regulation on asylum and migration management is one of the key elements, we know that relocation, also known as relocation, has not become a thing of the past. In practice, we saw that it didn't work at the beginning, and it failed. The ideas have ignored only one thing, reality, reality. So this pact is nothing more than a warm-up to the old problem or a new robe. Ladies and gentlemen, The five draft regulations have hundreds of pages, more than 300 pages, but some of them are seriously concerned in the Committee on European Affairs. They are again in short telegram style as follows: 1. The legislative proposals of the Pact can only be accepted in packages. 2. Our objection is that some of the content of the draft regulations goes beyond technical issues, and it is therefore appropriate to take decisions in the European Council, not at a lower level, on issues that require political consensus in professional debates. 3. The drafts do not take into account the specific circumstances and national specificities in each Member State. For example, to mention one thing, they do not even take into account the fact that Article XIV of the Fundamental Law of Hungary does not apply. Article 1 (1) states that no foreign population may be deployed in Hungary. 4. We also cannot accept that the Pact, instead of strengthening the fight against illegal migration, is unfortunately placing the main emphasis on managing migration, thereby endangering the security of EU citizens. 5. Finally, I stress that the Pact promises a comprehensive approach with a fair sharing of solidarity and responsibility, but does not take into account the specific features of the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, it has been demonstrated that compulsory relocation does not represent any added value, can not actually and generally be implemented, as migrants do not go to one of the 27 Member States, but we are well aware that they are organised in two or three richer old Member States. A real added value would be to participate in the relocation on the basis of voluntary commitments from Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of combating forms of volunteering and illegal migration, which was our main objection, it requires, on the one hand, a specific solidarity contribution based on an artificial distribution key, and, on the other hand, limited Member States' measures only to relocation and reimbursement sponsorship for some of it. So we see, ladies and gentlemen, that the Brussels recipe does not want to change. We would expect the European Commission to take account of the various interests and circumstances of the Member States. Illegal migration, we know, is a European matter. We also agree that all Member States should participate in this, but in a way that is consistent with the national circumstances of the Member States, first and foremost, to respect the national specificities of the Member States, to enable them not to seek the answer to the question of the demographic labour market in the case of irregular migrants, thereby increasing the security of the continent and the protection of our Christian heritage and culture. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, the Committee on European Affairs shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure. It carried out the subsidiarity examination in accordance with Article 5 of the Asylum and Migration Pact and, in my view, has reached the conclusion that the five draft regulations of the Asylum and Migration Pact are in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. I would ask my fellow Members to support the parliamentary adoption of the resolution proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-12-15-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, [[We can't hear it in masks.]] Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The Government supports the adoption of the submitted report and the proposal for a decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the adoption of a report on the adoption of a reasoned opinion and the conditions of the five draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council constituting the Pact on Asylum and Migration, H/14335. A proposal for a decision. The summary report was adopted by 26 votes in favour on the basis of the rules of the exceptional procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament Committee on European Affairs has examined the draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, which constitute the Asylum and Migration Pact, and has found that they violate the principle of subsidiarity by unduly restricting the freedom of Member States to decide, not taking due account of the national specificities of each Member State, and even clearly contrary to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, of which XIV. This article states that no foreign population can be deployed in Hungary. The proposals intervene in the internal relations of the Member States in an unacceptable manner, in violation of their sovereignty. The Legislative Committee held a detailed debate on the proposal for a decision adopting a report drawn up by the Committee on European Affairs and unanimously supported the decision. [[16.10]] The refugee and migration pact is a new initiative by the pro-immigration forces to make Europe an immigrant continent and the Member States of the Union immigrant countries, and we must therefore reject the migration pact and adopt the decision on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent representatives have 8 minutes. I would like to inform you that, if the MEP came forward through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced him as a speaker. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Hidvégi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Welcome, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear colleagues, Today we are discussing the elements of the new migration pact presented by the European Commission, namely the subsidiarity issues that arise in relation to these drafts. Respect for the principle of subsidiarity is one of the most important principles of decision-making in the European Union, the violation of which could also lead to the nullity of EU legislation. The essence of the principle is that EU legislation should leave as much room as possible for Member States to achieve the objectives of the action in question, this principle should ensure that decisions are taken at a level that is as close as possible to citizens. On the issue of migration, the Hungarian people have made their will clear on several occasions, so that Hungary cannot become an immigrant country. In accordance with the will of the Hungarian people, the Fundamental Law XIV. It also states that a foreign population cannot be deployed in Hungary. Thus, the Government of Hungary acts and acts according to the will of the Hungarian people and the provisions of the Fundamental Law, Fidesz-KDNP MEPs and Parliamentary Representatives, when we take a stand against compulsory relocation, because compulsory distribution is nothing more than a means of resettlement of foreign populations, which is, moreover, only a possible but not an exclusive way of expressing solidarity. On this basis, proposals containing binding distribution in any indirect or hidden way not only violate the Fundamental Law, but also violate the principle of subsidiarity contained in the Treaty on European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, The main weakness of the new migration pact presented by the European Commission is that it does not want to stop migration, but to organise or manage it, as they say in the outside texts. Thus, the proposals put forward by the Commission do not break up with the old and bad approach that relocation and relocation should be a central element in any solution at European level. On the other hand, the Hungarian position is that no person can enter the territory of the Union until it is certain that he is entitled to enter, so that the European Union's migration policy can only deliver the clear message that Europe is not a gateway and its gates are not open to anyone who is about to enter. We must support all solutions that affect this direction, but we must at the same time reject proposals to distribute across the territory of the Union people for whom there is no evidence and certainty that they are eligible for refugee status in a closed legal procedure. I believe that the solidarity concept of the new pact does not meet this requirement. Based on the solidarity concept contained in the proposal, relocation or so-called return support would constitute a major part of the contribution. However, the solution that seems to offer a choice is a virtually hidden relocation, since in the event of failure to facilitate return, the granting Member State would be obliged to take over the applicant after a certain period of time, depending on the situation, after four or eight months. In reality, this is only delayed relocation, delayed relocation, so ultimately the mass resettlement of immigrants into Hungary, which conflicts with the Hungarian Fundamental Law and conflicts with the Hungarian people's will. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We must, of course, agree that there is a need for solidarity, a mandatory contribution, that no Member State can cope alone with the intense migratory pressure that has been affecting Europe for years. However, this issue also involves the fact that the liability of certain Member States for their failure to comply with the rules, such as the lack of effective border protection or adequate procedures, cannot be borne by other Member States. Member States which do not properly carry out the tasks assigned to them should rightly not expect solidarity from the other Member States. Returning to show solidarity, I believe that it should be given the opportunity to give Member States a free hand to contribute to bearing the burden. Hungary has maintained a border fence for years, protecting not only itself, but also the entire territory of the European Union from the security threats posed by illegal border crossings. Such contributions should also be taken into account when we talk about European solidarity. However, these proposals do not respect this principle, as they do not leave sufficient room for Member States to choose how they intend to contribute to the common burden. Finally, allow me to say a few words about the general approach and attitude that prevails and continues to prevail on the European scene and, in conjunction with this, stress the importance of expressing their support for today's presentation. According to the general approach in the European institutions, migration is an opportunity for the European Union. The leaders of many Western European countries view mass migration as an inevitable and unstoppable process that should only be organised, managed and managed. This position was also expressed a month ago at an international migration conference, and the climate of the conference and the majority of the contributions indicate that the European institutions continue to have a strong pro-migration attitude. However, Hungary has demonstrated since 2015 that illegal migration at the external borders can be stopped with strong political will and strong border protection. The lack of political will in this context in Western Europe can be traced back to several reasons, such as the poor conscience and compensation of the colonial population, which is typical of Western countries, such as labour market and demographic considerations; but this is also the devious idea that the deployed masses will over time be a reliable left-wing voting base for some parties. At the same time, they ignore the fact that not all European countries are suffering from remorse caused by the colonial past, and we can safely say that we are not suffering from this, and that the introduction of immigrants is not the solution to demographic or labour market problems for everyone. For example, Hungary intends to address these challenges through broad family policy measures and support, and it envisages a completely different future, not based on the multicultural image of society, and asks the Hungarians to support it. The key to the success of European cooperation is, in my view, the acceptance and mutual respect of differences between Member States. This is not in line with a single possible proposal for a solution, mandatory distribution, mandatory relocation to address a comprehensive and divisive problem such as migration. I believe that the indication of subsidiarity concerns sends a clear message to the European Commission and to the EU legislators: Member States' parliaments will not let it go if there is a breach of the limits of EU legislation. With this in mind, I propose and ask that you express your support for today's presentation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, who wishes to give his speech from here on the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-175	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We are discussing a rare genre for the first time in this term that Parliament intends to adopt and deliver to the Commission a reasoned opinion, expressing its conviction and demonstrating that the migration package presented by the European Commission violates the principle of subsidiarity. I would like to take this opportunity to speak in a broader sense about the migration policy of the government and the governing parties, and to try to clarify Jobbik's consistent position in this area. [[16.20]] For the ruling parties and for the government, migration is partly a task and partly a tool and a weapon. The task: to stop illegal migration, to protect the border and to oppose quota allocation. The Jobbik supported it and will support it. At the same time, migration is a tool and a weapon in the sense that it is an important genre for you to maintain political power. Therefore, it seeks to achieve this by exaggerating the real danger, the real danger that exists, by manipulating, inciting fear and, where appropriate, by telling lies about Jobbik. What do I mean by fear? If you have to fight someone and prove that only a party, a party alliance, is capable of this fight, then the real tool is to create fear, to create more fear than there is a danger. Let me give you an example. On 25 September 2017, a serious incident took place in the village Őcsény, where refugees who were rightfully staying there had a protective status, this was given to them by a foundation from the Hungarian state at a boarding house; the locals encountered a huge resistance, the pension owner was threatened, and the wheels of his car were spotted. At the village forum there was such an incredible amount of rage that was absurd, especially for a country that basically defined itself according to Christian principles. Unfortunately, Viktor Orbán confirmed this answer. He said that it was very right that they expressed their views firmly, loudly and intelligibly. In the 2018 election campaign, we heard that it was the main message: Fidesz-KDNP is the only one who wants to protect the country from illegal immigrants, if we don't win, 100,000 migrants immediately cross the border, take the money, because they have to be cared for, and public workers don't get the chance. What was the billboard about? Together, George Soros and Gábor Vona would tear down the border fence. [[Nacsa to Lawrence.]] What Congressman is nodding on, I quote, is the false statement he once made. Find it again, find it. Gábor Vona said the border fence failed. What he meant by it was that if he knew what the fast - moving wire barrier was, the one that illegal migrants came through didn't help, and he immediately added that there was a need for live border protection. From then on, Jobbik said that border guards were needed and then supported the creation of a real effective fence. And then he said, "Here's the Jobbik went in front of him, and he wanted to break down the fence, completely absurd and manipulated. Whether Gábor Vona or Tamás Sneider is president of Jobbik, or Peter James, he was consistent in this regard. And that the lie price continued to flow in 2020? ! On 2 March, he said in his immediate reply: it is clear that if the country's safety depended on Ferencen Gyurcsány and his deputy Peter Jakab, then people would not meet with security, there would be no border fence, no border protection, no legal border closure, then we would see that hundreds of thousands of immigrants would reach the Hungarian border quickly and march through Hungary. Behold, the pro-government representative. It doesn't bother me that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his deputy, Péter Jakab. The Prime Minister was in there. If anyone wants to impress him, say so. But the fact that there wouldn't be border protection wouldn't be a legal border lock. Ladies and gentlemen, The use of the defence for border protection in migration required two-thirds support at a time when Fidesz did not have two-thirds, Jobbik provided it. The legal border closure, which the Member specifically mentioned here, needed Jobbik to create a legal border closure in order to have a two-thirds majority. And let me add, I did not participate in these votes, I was not here, I have no merit, because I was a Member of the European Parliament that autumn, we were talking about autumn 2015 and on 2 December 2015 the situation in Hungary was at the plenary session of the European Parliament, which dealt with only one issue: Hungary's application of border protection against migrants. That's what debate day was all about. Viktor Orbán was not there, no MEPs from the Fidesz-KDNP were present at the meeting. I was the only Hungarian representative who stood up for the government. I quote a few sentences: The Hungarian Government, with the support of a large majority of Parliament and the population, has implemented an immigration policy that differs from what the Commission represents here, and the majority of Parliament, but is effective. It protected its own sovereign borders and, at the same time, the Schengen borders. And yes, the quota system is wrong, because it is not necessary to distribute immigrants, but to prevent immigration. And one more sentence: because a country and its population are not waiting for immigrants with signs that they are still xenophobic. This is how I tried to stand in the European Parliament at the time. When I asked the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP the next day, well, there was an end of the year for the People's Party faction, and they decided that they would all rather attend that party. No one was there. It was an absolutely solid, civilized party, no gutters, but they could've been there. I was forced to say this because we do not have to intervene to make it clear that Jobbik has consistently supported the government's migration policy before, which is also demonstrated by the fact that we are those who are here at this hearing, we will vote because we know that this is necessary; because this migration package is in a shell and subtle way, but it goes back to the same point that we have rejected once, which has been suspended: the Dublin III Regulation in the legislative process of the European Union. It is said that relocation, relocation, would cover asylum seekers who are not subject to the compulsory cross-border asylum procedure, i.e. they come from a third country where the EU recognition rate for international protection is higher than 20 per cent. What does that mean? If a refugee comes from a country where experience shows that four out of five do not receive it, it can come without border control. These should be distributed. We are fortunate that this number has decreased compared to 2015, but 619 700 asylum applications were submitted in 2019. If it is not one fifth of this, let it be one third of the refugee status, 400 thousand people will still arrive this year who will have to be rejected. And it's only a year! And this has accumulated over the years: millions. And how much was the expulsion, as far as I know, last year? 15,000 people. So when this migration pact talks about the fact that a mandatory take-over will only take place if it is not resolved voluntarily, it is obvious that it is so and offers the possibility of capacity building: change it with money! Yes, but he says that if this offer exceeds 30% of the number of relocators, it cannot be converted from then on, there is no possibility of financial redemption of compulsory relocation or return sponsorship. [[16.30]] Therefore, from this rather sophisticated, sophisticated bill, it is essentially clear that, in the end, if this were to happen, Hungary should also take over a large number of migrants on a compulsory basis. By the way, let me draw attention to the fact that this is contrary to the conclusions and decisions of the European Council, namely the European Summit on 28 June 2018, point 6 clearly stated that the primary placement of those arriving in Europe and then the repositioning of those coming to Europe are literally written down on a voluntary basis only. This is the final conclusion of the European Council in this regard. On this basis, it is quite clear that Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, must take advantage of this opportunity, and Jobbik is in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, To start with the point at the very beginning, we believe that the Commission's most recent migration action plan on the table is a threat to Hungarian national sovereignty, and we will, of course, support the wording of this reasoned opinion. But what lies behind and that is what I would like to talk about behind this debate? Ultimately, what lies behind is what Europe we want. And now, thanks to this debate, there are two very clear positions. We are those who claim that Europe has been successful as long as European cooperation has focused on nations, nation states, and European cooperation has been aimed at strengthening nation states, because Europe can only succeed if nation states are successful, and therefore nation states must be strengthened and protected. And on the other hand, there is a vision that contradicts this point, and most importantly, utopia has not been tried by anyone, which tells us to create it, to gather European united states from the nation states. We put national identities in parentheses, forget about creating a multicultural Europe. And in their view, this can be created and accelerated by allowing immigrants to enter Europe. These two world views, these two visions, Mr Balczó, have no common intersection. And that is the biggest problem that you do not realize and understand that you are fighting with your conscience, and I do not want to question that you are in an anti-immigration position by the way, but that you should only notice that you have made an alliance with those who, on the other hand, represent not the Europe of nations, not the Europe of nation states, but the united states of Europe. You were here yesterday. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that they wanted European united states. And the thing is, I don't have a choice in this: either I choose this one or I choose that one. And you're trying to be anti-immigration in this one case if you're basically part of an alliance where the majority position is pro-immigration. We therefore believe that nation states must be protected. And besides, the success of the nation states was that they were on the ground of European living, living what was otherwise rooted in Christian culture. And this Christian culture is wanted by those who want a multicultural society, they want to destroy it with gender theory, with everything else. So we believe that this too must be protected, and the two are also not separated. When we defend sovereignty, we defend the European way of life, the traditional traditional way of life, so as not to say that we defend normality against abnormality. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt:]] In addition, we have a historical experience, and it is that if Hungary's sovereignty is complete, Hungary will grow. I could say that this is also the experience of the last ten years, but I must add that this is also the experience of the last thousand years: increasing sovereignty, growing growth, successful Hungary. It is therefore in our primary interest to preserve and strengthen Hungary's sovereignty. It is in Hungary's interest to take control of its own destiny. Let me get you another thought. There is a Belgian thinker, Thierry Baudet, who writes in his book The Importance of Borders that if we are democrats in Europe, we must defend democracy by protecting the nation states because his conclusion in his book is that democracy can only exist in nation states. So if we want democracy, we also have to want the nation states. When we look at supranational organizations, we can see that they are never equal organizations that take into account nation-state considerations, but there, in the end, the politics of power always prevails, the politics of power prevails, to put it more clearly, always the stronger one can force his will to the weaker. Therefore, if we want real democracy, we must also want the nation states, and therefore we must defend national sovereignty. And speaking of what we want, we cannot go without saying what the left now assembled represents in Hungary. And in this situation, the picture is quite clear. The one on the left who doesn't dare come in right now, by the way. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Wait two or three minutes!]] In this respect, let us note, for the sake of fairness, that Jobbik will at least come in and give its opinion, that the left does not work, but it is the left-wing Members who have constantly attacked the border fence, and Mr Balczó has certainly seen and witnessed that left-wing Members have voted in favour of all the pro-immigration proposals in the European Parliament. And no doubt about it. Although the Commission's proposal has been on the table for two or three weeks now, and the left-wing parties have not yet taken a stand on this issue, but we should not doubt the past years, knowing that left-wing parties and left-wing politicians from Klára Dobrev to Anna Donáth, this proposal, which the Commission has just submitted, will be supported. That's why I can only tell Jobbik once again that their cooperation and alliance have a price. They must give up their principles in order to work together with these pro-immigration leftists for power. But what is the migration action plan really about? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words about this. Brusselsers are now very cunning, avoiding clear wording in these proposals. Thus, the Commissioner who presented this migration action plan, Ylva Johansson, the Swedish Commissioner, who, by the way, came out of the Swedish Communist Party, was delegated by Sweden. So, Commissioner Johansson said: there are many migrants in Europe and we need more. [[16.40]] It is clear, therefore, that this package with a very meaningful title is not just about, that the full inclusion of the 34 million immigrants who are already in Europe, to achieve their full integration, is, in turn, very much EU funding, but it is also about it, and it is clearly also in the material, there are many places where additional immigrants should be allowed into the territory of the European Union, as another Commissioner said at the press conference, and also at a conference on immigration, the President of the European Parliament himself said that legal migration channels should be built towards Europe. Of course, with this opinion, we have nothing against it if it is a Member State opinion, because every country does what it wants. Immigration is a matter of Member States' competence, every country can decide whether to let it in or not, but no one should force its opinion on Hungary. In the light of this migration action plan, we say this because it is indeed dangerous. Because it says not only that 34 million immigrants must be granted all kinds of rights, but it also clearly includes the fact that these immigrants must have access to housing rights, as the material literally states, with all kinds of social benefits. But what is perhaps the most outrageous and clear proof of the progressive left-wing thinking that is going through all this material that we can read where it writes about political rights. This material clearly states that the broadest and most complete political rights must be granted to immigrants, and even says that the aim must be for immigrants to play a role in politics in local governments, national parliaments and on the European stage. So, in fact, if I don't say it clearly, these Brussels materials are generally unclear, but we are dealing with an immigrant political quota in Brussels. So they say that the decision-making in Brussels is good, if there is an immigrant, then a national parliament is good if there is an immigrant. We therefore consider this proposal to be extremely dangerous and clearly against the interests of Hungary, which is why we will support this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, another lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Integration and its President, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, for the work that he has done to bring this reasoned opinion to Parliament, and we can talk about it here, because it is a very important matter of fate and substance. My fellow Member Balczó said that we misinterpreted Gábor Vona's words. Here is another quote from Gábor Vona: It is possible to think about dividing migrants in the European Union on the basis of quotas. As long as this is about, say, a few thousand people, I'm gonna say okay. So Gábor Vona also supported the idea of quotas. That's what he said in an interview at the RTL Club that he tried to destroy with his own hands a few years before. That is what we are talking about here, Mr Balczó. But let's say another quote. Your current vice-president and EP representative, I am not saying your listing quote, but what you said in the EP campaign last year -: "The force or government that openly supports migration is not very much in Europe today. He believes that there is no force to support migration in Europe. [[To Zoltán Balczó:]] You can shake your head, honourable Member, and I see the conscientious struggle that you should meet your fellow Members and President on the list of European united states at the same time, and you should comply with your own conscience at the same time, so that you can say no to migration and immigration. When you say that this threat is considered to be greater by political interests than you do, you do not see the processes that have already occurred in some Western European countries, when Churches and temples, shrines and priests are attacked on a weekly basis by people with a migrant background in France, for example, you do not see the parallel societies that are created in the suburbs of European cities, and the semi-civil wars that immigrants leave behind, and you say that there is no great real danger, that we make the threat bigger than it really is. The danger is enormous. Honourable Congressman, The danger is enormous, not only because it is a threat to our culture, to our national identity, to our families, but also because it is an irreversible process. There's no turning back. If we spoil this, not only for us, but also for our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, it will be an irreversible process, and it will never be possible to reverse it and resolve it differently. I'm glad you supported the legal lockdown, and that's why you still want credit from us, pat on the shoulder. It was their patriotic duty. They didn't have a choice, they didn't have a choice. However, when the constitutional amendment banning resettlement was tabled, it was not supported until it had the necessary number of Fidesz-KDNP votes. When we were in a tight position when we were expecting help from the only opposition party that called itself a national party, it did not arrive, honourable Member, this is the help, and you did not vote for the amendment of the basic law when it was necessary. Let us also look at the political and epidemiological situation in which the Commission thought that it was high time to announce a migration action plan. After all, there is an outbreak of the Crown Virus all over Europe, this epidemic is costing European lives, everyone is waiting for the vaccine, and instead of continuing the vaccine negotiations with many experts, many bureaucrats, many EU Commissioners, instead of creating migration action plans, 34 million, and who knows how many immigrants' rights I would like to secure in the future. Why is that the most important thing now, fellow Members? Why aren't there so many bureaucrats working to get European citizens to the vaccine as soon as possible? These are legitimate questions, but we do not have any answers. If you read this material carefully, you will find some pretty hairy things in it. The document describes immigration as an unavoidable, unstoppable and permanent phenomenon. It sees immigration in Europe as a positive phenomenon and only an economic assessment. It does not appreciate immigration from a cultural or security point of view, only from an economic point of view. We never hear of the promotion of family support, population policy, support for young couples, because they think migration is the solution to everything. They also stated, honourable Member, that at this press conference, when they presented this migration action plan, that all EU Member States must be bound by solidarity. Only you said that there is no mandatory distribution, there is compulsory solidarity. That's the Brussels language. There must be a commitment of solidarity with regard to the reception of migrants. There has never been such an open Commission pact to support migration. You're talking about 34 million people, and then more. We have heard amazing and unscared sentences from EU leaders, Ursula von der Leyen said that the scope of opportunities to facilitate the legal arrival of immigrants in Europe should be broadened, and the full rights of legitimately admitted to the Union should be guaranteed. The plan is to change two letters from illegal migration. They take off the first two letters and make illegal immigration a legal migration. While they want to provide assisted housing, they want to provide social services and vote for 34 million, and later, who knows how many immigrants, for example, that 25 percent of young people starting their careers in Spain are unemployed, such as the average age of moving from their parents' house in Italy is over 30 years old. The European Commission is not dealing with the beginning and problems of young people in Europe, it is organising immigration. Why do we want to give shelter to 34 million immigrants, while young Europeans do not have jobs or are not able to live? Why doesn't the Commission deal with this? According to the Socialist President of the European Parliament, Sassoli, legal immigration channels should be opened on the basis of the needs of the EU labour market in order to maintain the necessary level of economic growth despite an ageing society. My colleague Hollik has already spoken about Ylva Johansson's sentence, who said that in the coming days we will need much more immigrants. These are confessions, honourable Members, about migration becoming the European Commission's number one cause, which is far more important to them than any clever and difficult case of European citizens. Of course, the Hungarian left is pleased to note these developments, and we have no doubt that they have now run away cowardly. The Jobbik and the LMP are here, the two parties from the left coalition are here for the debate, the others are not here. [[16.50]] They ran away cowardly because they know precisely that their position in support of migration is not dared to speak in the Hungarian Parliament, and then they will squint and press the button in the European Parliament, and they will vote for the migration action plan that the Commission will present to the European Parliament. They don't have the guts to tell us what they think here. We have been told many times before, we remember: fake problems, unnecessary fences, expensive, expensive and useless. We could go on with these sentences, or Ferenc Gyurcsány tried to break down the fence in person with cold cutters, and yesterday he was here in his microphones, sometimes in other places, about the fever dream of the European United States. I think that the Hungarian left seeking foreign compliance would also implement the action plan of the current Commission in Hungary without saying a word. And when you, Congressman, say you reject migration, I am glad you say so, but you would like to subscribe to the list of European united states with your party. [[Zoltán Balczó: Me?]] You're a member of his party, a representative of his party. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Fortunately, the Hungarians have often said no to immigration in a very large majority, the Hungarians have repeatedly expressed that they do not ask for immigration, they do not want to become an immigrant country, and therefore we, as the only political community against immigration, have no choice but to say no firmly and firmly to the Commission's plans and to say no to migration. Therefore, Hungarians can count on Fidesz-KDNP in this case as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start by saying that LMP voted in favour of this procedure, which led us to talk about this bill now, and that LMP will support this motion tomorrow with its vote. We fully agree that the issue of migration and the challenge that this problem presents, and the reasons behind it, and the future ahead of this problem system, is a matter of fate for the whole of Europe, a question of fate for Hungary as well. I must tell you frankly that I considered the speech by the rapporteur and the secretary of state to be quite normal, but I do not understand the keynote speech by the parties, the Fidesz-KDNP. If you really believe that this is a matter of fate, then why are you lying all over the Hungarian Parliament? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] Why are they dealing with the positions of different opposition parties, and why are they playing a game that brings together opposition parties here on certain issues, also on issues where there is a clear difference between us? Our voting behaviour, our speeches to the European Parliament, or what I myself represented in the Committee of the Regions, has always been consistent and consistent, and there are no such failures as the settlement bonds, for example, or the fact that they wanted to install a refugee camp next to my city, and the rest, and the rest. So I do not understand: if you believe for a minute that this is indeed a matter of fate, and we all have to work together to address this issue, I am thinking here not only of the national level, but of the whole of Europe, then why are you still lying in a petty way, why are you still conducting such a petty party political campaign along such a parliamentary debate? I don't understand. Well, the position of the LMP is very clear that the external borders of the European Union must be protected, illegal migration must be stopped, and this is the most important issue now, and in this context it must be said that immigration policy must always remain national and national. We have always been in such a position, and we will continue to be in such a position, let this be clear, and if we talk about opposition cooperation, it is for our part, and I think that it works on such principles from Jobbik's side. Not European United States, but a Europe of nations [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! Why do you have to lie?]] I see that Jobbik represents this, and the LMP represents this, and we will always go into electoral cooperation with this principle. You know, fellow Members, if we think that national interests must be protected, then we also understand that it is necessary to protect them from robbing villains who are now ruling and who are lying about national sovereignty, while standing up here in the Hungarian Parliament, and the forced exodus of hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians is said to lie to themselves as nationals, that there is no problem here, the common European labour market is working. Well, Congressman Hollik came in bravely, humiliated everyone, lied all over the place, and then ran out. [[István Hollik from the seat of MEPs: I am here!]] Excuse me, there's Congressman Hollik. Are you talking about national sovereignty here? ! Members of your government have repeatedly said in the Hungarian Parliament that there is nothing wrong with hundreds of thousands of people leaving the country, and there is nothing wrong with you saying that one in six Hungarian children are born abroad. Your policy has been based in the past ten years on the Hungarian labour force for vulnerable, cheap wages, and you are proud to tour here to become an investor, because you believe that the Hungarian labour force is cheap and is deprived of its rights, which is why many people have left this country, thousands of families have been torn apart. This is your national sovereignty! It's a lie! You do not use the word "national," honourable Member. Indeed, we must do everything we can to defend, strengthen our national sovereignty, and indeed this is an issue where there is no place for party political thinking, and we must all work together on this issue. It would be extremely important in this situation that we do not engage in party political debates, and I would not do that, nor would I react if there were nothing to do with it. Let us talk about the reasons behind the migratory pressure. I haven't heard a single comment from fellow government representatives, but in recent months I haven't heard them talking about what's behind this or why millions of people are heading for Europe. It should be clear that, to my deepest surprise, Prime Minister, you said here the other day about immediate questions, that we should be friendly with President Erdoğan, so that we should be in good company with a dictator who openly says that the huge Turkish communities in Europe should not be integrated. Let us be friends with them, and that is Fidesz' policy on migration? He doesn't care how many millions of people will be running away from climate change in the next period, how many millions of people will be leaving because of harmful, otherwise partly European policy, he said that we should be friends with this dictator, and then all our problems will be solved. That's pretty amazing. In recent weeks and months, you have pursued such an adventurous European policy, a veto policy. Now, I don't want to take this debate in that direction, but it's quite clear that it was a lie that the government's migration policy was the reason why this veto had to be taken. Obviously that wasn't the case, but we talked about it yesterday: here because of the rule of law criteria, because of corruption and other things. As regards the migration issue, I saw that unfortunately many hypocritical positions in Europe are dominant, but that is not what the dominant positions in Europe have essentially been about in recent weeks or months of European debate. However, what I have actually experienced is that it is very difficult in European politics to speak honestly about this issue, and it is difficult to get to the point where we are at all having genuine debates about the perception of this phenomenon itself. What I can tell you, however, is that from 2015, when a huge migrant population reached the country, Fidesz's policy was completely hypocritical, we experienced it in Pécs. I do not know how well my fellow Members know this story: in 2015, when this wave of refugees reached Europe, Martonfa and a number of other settlements the government wanted to set up a temporary reception centre with a dictatorship, but this was done in such a way that the Mayor of Martonfa, his population, the population of Pécs, and everyone made such a decision. So they didn't even allow a phone to be used before they were at least informed or interested in the ability of a tiny, 200 enthusiastic settlements to build a temporary reception station. It was quite shocking. And then, of course, on the first call from the municipality of Martonfa, we were there the next day and protested as opponents against such a dictatorship. Then Fidesz attacked us with how populist we are, so why not take a measure? Of course, it was then that the population won, Martonfa won, Pécsvárad won, the city of Pécs won, and I finally had to speak four or five times in Parliament on this issue, bringing a multitude of written questions, to end up formally withdrawing this outrageous dictator. So what kind of hypocritical policy is this, fellow Members? ! Or immigration, the Rogán settlement bonds: nearly 20,000 people were allowed into the country just because they paid, without any substantive control, and now we can see that they have caused a loss of 30 billion. Well, what's the answer from the Prime Minister who says it couldn't have been? ! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: National and Conservative!]] It could have been! Well, how many times have we spoken up here? ! Márta Demeter had a lot of proposals to withdraw the settlement bonds, and eventually they were withdrawn, but 20,000 people were allowed in. Well, what self-righteous, deceitful politics is this? ! But I'm telling you, that's not the biggest problem, but the biggest problem is that they still don't think about a policy that reveals the reasons and reduces the reasons. Because it should be perfectly clear to everyone that if we don't deal with the causes, then there will be such a vast flood that it will be very, very difficult to solve the problem with symptomatic treatment, and that cannot be the purpose of anyone. And what I find quite amazing is that they are trying to have a close relationship with President Erdoğan, who is really blackmailing Europe by allowing millions of migrants, and that is totally unacceptable. Indeed, the solution here can be one thing: in line with these principles, too, the borders must indeed be protected, nation states must clearly strengthen their own decision-making powers in relation to immigration policy, but there is a real need for cooperation in addressing the causes and, moreover, in terms of EU border protection and other aspects. [[17.00]] We have also looked at these European Union documents, and we have seen parts of them that are forward-looking, but we agree that there are elements in them that Mr Balczó has also spoken about, which are not only worrying us, but we can see that they conflict with the principle that immigration policy must be kept in national competence. That is why we, too, consider this sign of subsidiarity to be justified, an examination of subsidiarity, and that is why we will support this motion tomorrow. But then I'm going to go over a little bit of what's causing the migration. On the one hand, I think you do not dispute that climate change, environmental destruction, or even the various economic operators, multinational companies or even states, are peripheries, the robbing of natural resources, all of which lead to an increasing number of people losing their living space, and more and more people moving towards Europe. So these issues should finally be identified and Europe should act together on these matters. I myself have worked in the Committee of the Regions for three years, and I have had a lot of debates on this issue. I have the same experience as Mr Balczó, by the way, that the Fidesz MEPs were sitting in general, and I do not know if they were pushing their tablets and their communication tools when I, for example, debated this issue with the competent Commissioner of the European Union in the Brussels plenary room. By the way, I can confirm that there was a member of the committee delegation of the regions at the time, Anna Magyar, who consistently, firmly and hardly always stood up for the issues. I've been following his work ever since, he's been doing it, but a significant part of the Fidesz fraction has been sitting around quite a bit, so to speak, during these sessions, when it comes to such subjects. I can tell you that every time I had the chance, I spoke up, and I was very firm in that position. I myself was not in the Committee of the Regions as part of the presidency of the Group of European Conservatives and Reformers, and I would like to say that, although we were not on a platform for economic policy, we fully cooperated on such issues. I was very proud that this faction entrusted me with practically preparing political decisions on these issues, and this could have been achieved. But indeed, we have very, very difficult years, or even decades ahead of us in European politics, to bring this issue to the right path. I myself have come across the incredibly hypocritical position that the rapporteur mentioned here, too, that they are speaking positively about this migration cataclysm, in effect, about the migration crisis. I was faced with a rather shocking incident at one of the meetings when I was in Brussels. There was a terrible tragedy when a ship fell over the Mediterranean and hundreds of people died, hundreds of illegal immigrants lost to sea, it was a terrible tragedy. We began the meeting, of course, by standing up, all of us expressing our grief, expressing our respect and, together, expressing that such tragedies should not happen, by taking action against smugglers, and the rest and so on. But it was amazing to me that a document came before this European body that day, one point of which was about what a great opportunity there is in migration, because it will solve the labour market problems of the European Union. That is a shocking, profoundly hypocritical, outrageous position! I said then that they should think of these unfortunate people who are forced to leave their country because of such war conflicts or natural tragedies, that if they come by hundreds of thousands, millions, then who will build the state in those issuing countries. Nobody! So these countries suffer losses, society suffers such losses that they will not be able to organise the state, and this will launch new and new migration processes. So I think it is an infinitely hypocritical European position from many European, I might add, ethnic politicians who see this crisis as a positive process, where, for such reasons, millions of people are forced to leave their homes. So we also have the same principle that, indeed, help must be brought as close as possible to the problems and move towards a common development policy that will ultimately help everyone to thrive in their homeland. This time frame is scarce, which we now have, but we should also talk about issues that I have once again experienced very difficult to talk about at European level, the issue of integration, how difficult it is to integrate people from different cultures. Once again, I refer you back to your good friend, President Erdoğan, who specifically instructed you, called on the Turkish communities in Europe not to integrate and use it to blackmail Europe. This is unacceptable! Obviously, if Europe can't do anything with this integration problem, there will be unforeseen consequences. By the way, we have seen in many countries that there are indeed no-go zones, there are areas in which we can say that this fight has already been lost, and unfortunately we can see that Brussels also has regions, there are districts where it is very difficult to provide legal order. Again, my fellow Members, the answer is not that you are putting up posters, but the answer is not that you are trying to act with hatred or Gypsy, and I do not know, with serialisation. Seriously, does the Hungarian Prime Minister have time to send messages on Facebook to George Soros? That's incredibly irresponsible. This is to show that this is a real, existing problem, but you really don't believe in it, you want to campaign with it, and you're glad that there is such a topic, that you can hold onto it, and that you can abuse the opposition. This is serious irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, because, in order to ensure the right policies for the Hungarian nation on this issue, we should not be churning together, we should not be in seriality, we should not be insulting each other, we should be able to draw up these documents together, but we should be able to draw up these documents together, at least four factions together, so that we should be able to convey these expectations, policies and proposals to the level of European politics, because believe me, my fellow Members, it has a whole different taste, let us say, from a national state level, to a political motion coming from Hungary, if there are not only pro-government groups and politicians, which are otherwise narrowing, but also opposition parties, which are obviously members of a European party family. That is why it is important, and I can repeat again that this is an important issue, and we will support you in this, and we will vote on this proposal tomorrow, and we will obviously continue our policy on these principles within our own European party family. I would just like to refer to one more thing, in addition to the fact that moving forward would now be a framework for this debate, if we had to talk about how we could go further, that we should demand much more ambitious targets in European policy in the context of climate change. We also need to act at national level, which would basically require cooperation at European level, so that we can act more decisively against climate change. You're vetoing this, by the way, but obviously we're not gonna be able to discuss this right now. I would just like to respond to Mr Hollik's party-driven lie about the fact that there are two ways: there are believers in the European united states and there is a community in the Europe of nations. That is not true, my honourable fellow Member. I can tell you that I have no right to speak on behalf of Jobbik, but it is certain that LMP will not support any common direction in opposition cooperation aimed at achieving the European United States. I have experienced, by the way, not only along my three-year European politics, but also from here we see the European processes, that European integration is obviously important for all of us. I hope that we agree, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary has a place in Europe, in the European Union, and it is clear that we belong to the Western Christian culture and that we all believe in European integration. But the way the European Union now works is not sustainable in the longer term. This European Union is not transparent enough, it is not democratic enough. To an amazing extent, thousands of lobbyists from multinational companies have captured the European Commission and the European institutions and decision-making at all. Well, that's something you need to change. We say that we need not more Europe, not more European integration, but a better, more democratic, more transparent, more effective, a much closer, much closer European Union, which is why we are working. On this issue, in dealing with migration, I ask you to end the party policy campaign, end the mud throwing and, in accordance with your own responsibilities, what a governing party represents, and I ask the members of the government to start a substantive debate on how to tackle the root causes of the migration crisis, and, for example, on one of the most important issues of climate change, not to hinder joint European action, but to support it. In closing, I can only repeat: tomorrow, with our vote, we will support this proposal. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-12-15-182	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Congressman Tibor Bana. You have an 8-minute time frame.
u2020-12-15-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I think it is extremely important to talk here in Parliament about the Pact on Asylum and Migration. [[17.10]] We did this yesterday at the Committee on European Affairs, where there was a substantive debate on this proposal, and I also expressed my view that this is a complex and non-black-and-white issue in the sense that when different indicators arise from the government side, they are quite unilateral in this matter. At the same time, I would like to underline, Honourable Parliament, that I support, for my part, the fact that the Hungarian Parliament should examine subsidiarity in this matter. When my fellow members of the Government speak of the importance of the opinion and will of the Hungarians, we must take into account the position of our fellow countrymen when they refer to this, then I think that they should do so taking into account this, and it is our responsibility that we all have a Christian duty to help those who really need it and actually come as refugees, regardless of their religion and origin. I must add that, of course, there are very many who come to the continent as Christians, but of course it would be best, and it would be important to take meaningful steps in this direction if everyone is able to thrive in their own homeland, but if, if, if, as appropriate, someone has to flee from a war zone, whether they have a Christian religion or a different religion or a different cultural background, then we have to give them help as far as we can. And when a Christian-conservative government has at least one of our own claims to be our country, they should take that position, which is what my fellow members of the government should represent. I am convinced that when you say that you are talking to voters, that you are negotiating what we opposition Members of Parliament are constantly doing, that the majority position of the Hungarians will appear in this way, which is why I started by saying that we should not approach this very unilaterally and make a black and white question out of it. When we recently published a communication with the Joint Vas County Association on the terrorist attack in Vienna, we also made it clear that mass inclusion, unlimited immigration cannot be a solution, and even unacceptable. The external borders of the EU, my fellow Members, must be checked and defended, but at the same time the kind of hate campaign that appears from the government side and I would refer here to the fact that, unfortunately, there are often misguided use of indicators either by government actors or by pro-government representatives, is certainly harmful and dangerous and does not point to a solution. We can often see them knowingly collapsing concepts and discussing them in an inappropriate way, either in the European arena or here in the Hungarian Parliament or at committee level. As Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs and currently as a member, I have experienced this on numerous occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, We are Hungarians and Europeans, and this cannot be emphasized enough, and it cannot be said enough that it is therefore very important to take steps towards creating a European culture of debate. At a time when we are talking about such an extremely important issue here in plenary, unfortunately, this was not the case for pro-government speakers today, and I would like to refer primarily to the speakers of the KDNP, but the MEP of Fidesz also made a remark in this direction about the reckless use of various adjectives on this really very important subject, in which it would be worth reaching consensus, and it would be worth talking in one direction, but with the right calmness. I would also like to make it clear that, of course, I completely reject and accept the overly liberal approach to this issue. I would like that, and for my part, as a Member of Parliament in Vas County, I am working to ensure that our fellow countrymen can live in peace and security. That is why I support the resolution proposal before us, because I also believe that it is a matter of sovereignty in this case, and it is very important that the Hungarians and, in this case, the various parliamentary representatives elected by the Hungarians can decide what position we take on the issue of immigration. So, Honourable Parliament, I trust that we will see this in the vote tomorrow. I would like to note that when it came to the establishment of a reception centre in Vas County, in Szentgotthárd and Körmend, it happened for a shorter period of time in Szentgotthárd, and in Körmenden the people who lived there had to face it several times and for a longer period of time without having to ask them about their substance, I also took a firm and clear position there, and there were many people who considered it important, regardless of the political color and party standing. After all, the locals were not consulted in these cases, as Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP Group, pointed out that the situation was the same with Martonfa in Baranya County. We found this unacceptable and outrageous at the time, and I still consider it to this day. Allow me to turn back to the idea that I, for my part, trust that the more of my fellow Members vote on this proposal tomorrow, will press the yes button, as President of the Joint Vas County Association, I will do so tomorrow. And I would also like to make it clear, and I would like to assure everyone that I represent this position, both in our association and personally, and that we will continue to take this position. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-12-15-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who has indicated his intention to speak. You have 14 minutes and 52 seconds for the Secretary of State.
u2020-12-15-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since I have been addressed and the Government has been called on to make comments, we are not the authors of the proposal, but I feel that it is fair to react. I will start with what my independent fellow Member has just said. It is not true, Congressman, that we have not informed the leaders and mayors of Körmend and Szentgotthárd. I personally informed Mayor Gábor Huszár Szentgotthárd and István Bebes, mayor of Körmend about the plans of the government for refugees in the settlements, and we did everything we could to reassure the mayors that this would not have any disadvantage for the people who live there. That is how it happened, and we thank the Szentgotthárd and the Körmendi for their cooperation. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, on behalf of Mr Martonfa and Mr Sormas, I would like to refute what you say that the locals did not know about it. As I recall, in the summer of 2015 my colleague, Secretary of State Tibor Pogacsás informed the locals about this, informed them personally on the spot and informed the public. This can be verified, by the way, believe me, that's true. Anyway, there was no refugee camp built on Martonfa or Sormas, no such investment was carried out, so I would like to say this, and there were no adverse consequences for the inhabitants of the settlement in relation to this decision. So once again, fairness wishes me to say that Tibor Pogácsás personally informed the leaders, residents and the public of the two settlements on the spot; please check it out, Congressman. As regards the EU's Pact on Migration and Asylum and the draft regulation, allow me to reflect on this as well. Hungary maintains its previous position and does not support the adoption of individual legislative proposals in the asylum package. The unacceptable point of the proposal is to allow entry into the territory of the European Union and residence until the end of the procedure for persons whose case does not yet have a final decision on the eligibility of such persons for international protection. [[17.20]] Hungary made it clear in the debate on the proposal that the planned reform of the Union's migration policy should be based on a balance between responsibility and solidarity. Yesterday, EU Home Ministers held a video conference, as Deputy Minister, I represented Hungary at this meeting, and for the third time we discussed the Pact on Migration and Asylum. On the basis of yesterday's discussion, it can be concluded that there is no agreement on the progress report, in addition to the V4 countries, i.e. Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, five other Member States, namely Slovenia, Latvia, Estonia, Austria and Denmark, have not been able to accept compulsory solidarity. It should be stated that there is no illegal entry into the territory of the Union, that the external borders must be protected by everyone. We said that from the beginning, but not only did we say that, but we also did this with the protection of the threefold, the protection of the law, the protection of the living and the creation of the fence. We protect Hungary's borders, we do not allow migrants in, Hungary will not be an immigrant country. The Government supports, as I said, the present report and the adoption of the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw attention to one more important circumstance here in my speech, and this is the fight against smugglers. The Crusade Member mentioned the shocking and truly shocking tragedy that all of Europe experienced in connection with that ship disaster in 15 years. What I can say is that the current proposal does not include the radical and effective abolition of human trafficking at sea, i.e. the new refugee pact. This must be eliminated, it is a matter of will, a matter of decision. The European Union has the means to achieve this. Let me mention one more thing: you mentioned, Mr Crusade, that more Western European countries... Congressman! I'd say that to you right now, but I'll wait for you to call. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: He is discussing the matter with the Mayor of Martonfa! The president's ringing the bell.]] Feel free to ask. What I say is true! So what I'm trying to say is...
u2020-12-15-186	It was a normal procession. Please, let's keep it. Thank you.
u2020-12-15-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would therefore like to respond to Mr Keresztes' comment that several Western European countries consider illegal migration, or the reception of migrants, to be so much a good and positive thing, because they will be able to siphon and select, so to speak, excellent professionals. Now think of it, if we take into account, say, North African countries or Asian countries, if professionals, doctors, engineers, computer engineers and craftsmen are removed from the countries from which migration starts, then they will further weaken those countries by increasing the negative trends that people from these countries want to live there and trigger even more illegal migration. But they don't think about it, even though we're telling them. I think it's important that we know that. Overall, I think that there must be a clear position in this matter, and compulsory relocation and sponsorship are still unacceptable. We are confident that we will be able to adopt a Pact on Migration and Asylum in the European Union, which takes these principles into account, which the Hungarian Government is clear about. I think that this is a national domestic matter, but it is important that the European Union act together and that it can adopt a pact that is also in the interests of European people. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-15-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-189	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. The basic situation is that the Hungarian Parliament wants to turn to the Commission on an important matter, in which two opposition parties support the ruling parties, which I think is a positive and important thing. There have been criticisms on our part of the ruling parties that they feel are not true; I understand the debate or that they reject it. But getting to Gyurcsány on this issue is unbelievable! Well, there's the past, there's the present, there's the future. In the past, I wanted to demonstrate that we, Jobbik, have consistently dealt with and stood up for the government's policy against migration. Not me! With our votes, Dániel Z. Carpathian with his speeches. And the present is that we are now dealing with this issue and in this it is supporting the governing parties. You're talking about fiction. If the congressman believes that Ferenc Gyurcsány's deputy is Péter Jakab and starts from this, it is absurd! Why do you think that if there's a coalition, because you're counting on it, then there's a problem with Jobbik... you have to get on the government somehow, and that's all you do. If the opposition doesn't win the election, the Jobbik can stay on their own. And if there is a coalition in some way, that's what we're going to represent. Why do they assume that Gyurcsány is in charge? Is that what you're trying to enforce against us? And by the way, that's what you did. Well, you forced the opposition to stand up like this, if necessary. If it was a one-way election in 98, Fidesz wouldn't have won. And now they've achieved with a modification that there seems to be nothing but a common list I don't know if that's how it's gonna be. The party is left with no other option, no individual choice is left, and you have achieved this, and you are talking about it as being appointed the leader of this coalition, and you are saying that everyone has folded their heads into the yoke. It's absurd! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-15-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, That's exactly what I said, which you just confirmed. You said it would be a problem if they came to government. That's how we see it, then it could be a problem. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't twist it!]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't twist it!]] And he also said that if they don't get on the wheel, they can stay on their current agenda. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Don't twist it!) Well, that's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. If you and Ferenc Gyurcsány get together, you can't stay with them. Then you must carry out what your boss tells you. And when I call him his deputy, I say that precisely because James Peter never talks about them. Once he doesn't talk about rejecting migration, once he doesn't talk about national interests, he talks about workers and constantly insults us. Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about, Congressman. It will be a problem if they get on the wheel, and they have to give up their perception if they start steering Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves! Don't worry about us.]] That is what I am talking about, honourable Member, and I understand what the past was. But the reason we brought the future here is because this migration package we are talking about is the future, what rights you want to give, how many migrants you want to bring in, and how you want to open legal channels for immigrants in the future. It is therefore very important what kind of government Hungary will have from 2022, which can protect Hungary from immigration or not.
u2020-12-15-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: They didn't even clap!]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I apologize, Mr. Secretary, for being rude, for making a phone call. But I called the mayor of Martonfa, and he confirmed what I always knew, and we knew that you didn't ask them, at a government meeting, they decided that they wanted a reception camp. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Wow, how embarrassing!]] Set up in Martonwood. That's why this outrage was, by the way, although I can confirm that the mayor, if he had been approached before, would not have agreed to such a government dictatorship and government decision. But this, by the way, shows the deceit of your policy, as well as what Congressman Peter Hoppál did at the time, and, by the way, he is not here now, the congressman, I'm just sending him a message from here using virtual technology to try and convince the locals of Pécs that, come on, accept, figure out what they're asking in return to accept this dictatorship. I think that Pécs and all the cities, all the rural areas, need representatives who look at how to represent the government dictator rather than how to represent it, but what is in the interest of the local people; so it does not function as governor of the government, but as representative of local interests here in Parliament. I would like to point out one more thing: indeed, many people see the supply of cheap labour in migration, see the replacement of cheap labour in tragedies, collapses of countries, war conflicts, an infinitely sad, hypocritical and shameful idea. But this is not about countries, Mr Secretary of State, it is about politicians, and the interests of multinational companies with which you otherwise prefer to enter into a strategic agreement. [[17 .30]] Or we are talking about the needs of the German automotive multinationals with whom you have now agreed again in the European conflict. Their interests can always be represented in Hungary at any time, and then you will always be good partners, and ultimately you will always receive the support in Germany, which will also provide the interests of Hungarian workers to German automotive multinationals and other multinational companies. Thank you very much. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Your allies... Hollik István Z. Kárpát towards Dániel: Mercedes... Z. Kárpát Dániel: I can't hear you! Let's talk about...]]
u2020-12-15-194	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Hidvégi, Fidesz Group.
u2020-12-15-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond very briefly to a few things. Mr Keresztes has just asked here how the Hungarian Prime Minister has time to write to György Soros. The fact is that we didn't start to be in line, György Soros began to be in line when he placed himself on that map, the political map where the debates were about what the future of the European Union should be. He is the one who, five years ago, when the migration crisis broke out, points out his proposals and expectations in this regard, and also made proposals on how to punish countries that do not accept compulsory distribution, which say no to migration, for example. And by the way, it is no coincidence that he wrote an article right now, right after this EU agreement. Fortunately, he described how disappointed he was, and if he is disappointed, then we can be content, because if his ideas are not realized, it is good news for the Hungarians, I have to say. It is naive to underestimate the influence, political influence, financial influence that he exercises, for example, on the European Union's policy and decision making; it is naive, so it is worth taking seriously. The other, let me also respond partly to you and to several revelations by my fellow Member Balczó. You may be personally committed to what you are saying, and it is very right that you support this proposal today, and so do your parties, and I welcome it for my part. However, it is not only about this, it is about who you are working with, and it is about the fact that, years ago, when the migration debate was sharpest, and when the Hungarian Prime Minister was attacked with full force, they told everything that could be imagined, then who were the ones who stood up for him and stood up for the government's policy. The world has changed greatly in five years, partly due to its strong and successful defense and defence in Hungary, but then it was not so. Then they told everything we did. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then we said we'd build a fence and defend the country, then we should have stood by us. That's not what happened. We were attacked. One last sentence, Mr. President, if you'll allow me to comment on the incident of his brother here. Assuming, but not allowing, the locals to overdo it, there's got to be a hundred times more of an incident than killing people by illegal immigrants on the streets and controlling them. [[The president's ringing again.]] we lose over parts of the country and parts of the city as a result of migration. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to react very briefly, because I have a short period of time. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: What time frame are they talking about? It's at minus 20...]] , in connection with the reception centres in Vas county, to Secretary of State Károly Kontrat. I did not object to the fact that the Fidesz mayor of Szentgotthárd or Körmend was not informed by the government, because this obviously happened, but the Szentgotthárd and the Körmendi were not informed of this by either the city leaders or the government side. I have brought this subject up here in Parliament several times, and I have tried to obtain meaningful answers to the questions raised in connection with the two Vas county reception centres, both in the case of Szentgotthárd and in the case of Körmend. That's what I wanted to make clear. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches announced in writing will now follow, and the speeches will follow. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-199	Mr President, Dear House, We have a subject ahead of us that is undoubtedly affecting our national issues of fate. There's a question, it's a question to decide, and it's a choice. How can a national interest be better represented on the European stage: if the descending governing parties alone represent the subject, or if, where appropriate, there is parliamentary consensus on the subject? It's a matter of choice. It is obvious that someone who has somehow gone beyond political science in the first semester clearly sees that a consensual reinforcement in the European space can be represented much more strongly, let us say, on the subject of migration than if it is represented by a creaking-creaking party family in itself. And now it's the moment of grace that there are two communication leaders here at the Fidesz-KDNP in the room. [[István Hollik points to opposition parties.]] and, obviously, when they are here, they have the highest responsibility for what their party family is doing on this issue today, because, let alone not looking for consensus, but sleazy, Bolshevik-type rhetoric, slylyly, direct provocation to the opposition with which they would otherwise be able to reach a almost consensual decision on this issue. At most, there are those who do not participate in the debate, but who are here, you see, members of several party families, they would be able to and, if appropriate, will be able to support what they are talking about. [[István Hollik will spread his arms.]] There's no argument between us. But there's no excuse for the big vest, the captivating, the amazing Bolshevik type of arrogance, because you're betraying a national interest. You tell us the national interest, when you do not try to represent the position with consensual reinforcements on the European stage, but you are concerned that you are still tearing away the perceived grievances of political competitors. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The fact is that there is only one party in Hungary, here in the Hungarian Parliament, which declared zero tolerance and held to it. Obviously, if I think about the opposition palette quickly now, I can find more, because I have to list LMP here, but zero tolerance is not part of the religion of Fidesz-KDNP. And that amazing Pharisee attitude you guys have is the vet horse of the political windcock. I don't think there's one in Europe. I ask the question, Mr. Communications Director, is that when this conflict with Soros happened, this was after you received the scholarships, or after the Prime Minister personally received George Soros here in the House at the end of 2010? Was that another George Soros? I'm talking about your ally. There is no one in Jobbik who would have received a scholarship from György Soros. In fact, I'll continue the line, please respond to it. There is no one in Jobbik who begged the United Nations for a world quota. The head of your party family, however, raised the demand for a world quota before the UN. My fellow Members, what happened to you? How's that? We do not have anyone who has signed a final document to implement quota-like solutions on the European scene. The head of your party family did this in 2015; you know it very well. When they come into parliament to face up to their perceived moral superiority to lecture opponents, they know very well [[István Hollik intervenes.]] That the turn of 360, thousands of degrees has been carried out several times by your party family on this issue. But let's move on to this line. In addition to the world quota and the final document on quota implementation, which government is in Hungary, the only government that can teach the people who are being protected about the possibilities of hiring CSOK? Did the Jobbik government do that? You didn't, did you? Did governments do that until 2015? I don't want to protect them, because there wasn't even any back then, but it wasn't, was it? There's only one government that did this: yours. We can continue the line. Which is the only government in the last 30 years [[To the pro-government representatives:]] Will there still be a reason for grin, fellow Members, but I hope that there will be such courage among the reactions, which has installed hundreds of thousands of foreign workers in Hungary? It's yours. Which government is constantly assisting us to say, in Tiszaújváros, we were all there, I hope you, at the Borsod 6 campaign, do not grin, my fellow Member, there is a container town near Tiszaújváros, there are 2 thousand workers, 2 thousand foreign workers imported here, your government will grant you non-refundable support in the amount of 20 billion, job creation support for foreign workers to do the work here, multi-enterprises, which, by the way, Hungarian guest workers also do in exotic Far Eastern regions. This is your government: amazing double-facedness, Phariseeism! And if we look at the triple symbolism of the flow chart, we see that there is an apparent rejection of migration, and when I was talking about zero tolerance, here is the difference between us. You have brought up today the intention of the Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law, where you would like to have a partial ban on immigration, and I think that is correct. We said it was the right thing to do, but it would be the right thing to do, because it would have been part of shutting down one of your corruption channels. Here, you can respond now, stand up, deny, I'll wait. With the settlement bond business, 20,000 foreigners were allowed to access the anteroom of citizenship for money, and since then Hungarian taxpayers have paid about HUF 30 billion. [[17.40]] Here, you can yell, grin, disprove. You can't do it, can you? It is amazing what they are doing on this front and on this issue, because the entrance hall of Hungarian citizenship is sold for money as a market kofa, they allow foreign workers to settle here in the order of hundreds of thousands, saying that otherwise Hungarian agriculture would fall apart, but on the other side they are not doing anything about forced emigration, the emigration of hundreds of thousands of people, and we have not been able to reach a demographic consensus in ten years. The current, previous and this year's birth numbers represent a six-and-a-half-million-dollar picture of Hungary. If the number of live births remains as high as last year, this year or before, it assumes a six-and-a-half-million-dollar Hungary in a decade-long perspective. We have quite amazing problems, therefore, we need national minimums, consensus in these areas, in demographic terms, and I say that in the area of migration, too. I have listed many examples that prove that the Fidesz-KDNP has turned very hard in this area. I still call on you to seek consensus, look for domestic partners, and then to protect national interests more strongly abroad. But you still provoke your opposition fellow Members; the Balczó Zoltán, who is more consistent than anyone in the Hungarian Parliament in this area, perhaps without discussing his commitment to anyone. So if you want to know our position: we want zero tolerance against all forms of immigration, immigration, it would be to promote our own reproduction that we would expect of you. This is not what they are doing, because while newly built residential dwellings are supported by tens of millions, they are not willing to support the acquisition of the independent home of young Hungarians in the ten-year term. It must be a national competence to maintain the right to decide on migration. We don't need a transfer of sovereignty in this area, that's what we're saying. Secondly, there is indeed a need to develop solutions in the source countries and, thirdly, to halt illegal migration. Our position on this is to restore an independent border guard. Since 2015, we have been trying to get you to take this seriously. Unfortunately, it has not happened since then, but our triple package has not just been made, fellow Members. You know very well: together with a number of other opposition forces, we submitted these in 2015, 2016, so when you did not have any political product for migration, and we submitted it even when it became a political product with you. I do not want to offend Mr Secretary of State, because he is trying to give you professional answers, but you are sitting with a State Secretary who told me in Parliament in 2015 that this problem does not exist. For you, it was then becoming a political product. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this will not be enough in 2022. Your communications leaders are here, and I respect your professional work, but I would like to protect them from thinking that this will be enough in 2022. Any attack or kicking can't prevent opposition parties thinking about democracy from entering that ring together and trying to win and regain Hungary's freedom. You can only confirm that with all your little words, little spikes. I think that might have come out to you, but if you didn't, I'd like to tell you, too. It can also be seen that, yes, as your right-wing opposition, I, as vice-president of the party of the right-wing opposition, represent this triple package of solutions. Lóránt László Keresztes, I also believe that he has demonstrated his national feelings, and other opposition parties also come up with completely fair proposals. Believe me, in 2022 we will be able to resolve this issue after you, but in such a way that we will not contribute to organised imports of labour. We won't make your mistakes, we won't run corruption channels, we won't have a settlement policy, we won't have a corruption business that you can't react to because you don't dare. The Hungarian taxpayers paid 30 billion for this, and at this time, there is no large vest, no comment, there is quiet sitting. Therefore, there will be no settlement policy. There will be a programme for Hungarians who have been displaced abroad so that they can return home and find their calculation at home so that they can thrive in the homeland. I hope that there will be a rental program where after a few years of peaceful co-existence, the rentals that can then be acquired as property can be bought, because there is no way to get a single home in today's environment. There will be a vision for young Hungarians, which you clearly ate for several social groups. There won't be 13,000 evictions, and there won't be a vest this big, that's the most important. It is quite certain that the triple package that we have proposed on the solution is consistent with the agreement of all parliamentary parties could be represented much more strongly in international space. Giving up national interests, betraying national interests is what you do. On the brink of the abyss, at the last minute, I warned you not to move one more step towards the ravine. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-12-15-200	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-201	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's urgent comment on an independent border guard. Security has been mentioned here several times in Parliament about the security of Hungary. In the 2010 campaign, we said that we would restore security. Not we say it, but already last year international organisations have established that Hungary is Europe, but it is one of the safest countries in the world. This has been achieved by the excellent performance of the police, of which the former border guard has been an integral part since 1 January 2008. We know that Hungary joined the Schengen system on 21 December 2007, that the independent border guard ceased on 1 January 2008 and that the fifth branch of the police force became the border police. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that this task is done in an excellent way by the police, our border officers, our border fighters. The police are carrying out a task of three today, honourable Member, and I recommend this to your attention. On the one hand, it protects internal security and it must be seen that the number of crimes in Hungary has fallen by nearly half. He's halfway there! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Let me finish. On the other hand, they protect the border, protect the safety of the Hungarian people, and participate in the tasks of fighting the coronal virus epidemic. They're doing this threesome in a superhuman way. Mr President, believe me, if we thought that the solution you are saying would bring even better results, we would consider it. But I think that these facts, which I have told you, are the threefold task that the police are performing, for which I thank the police and soldiers, who are protecting our borders, in today's debate, for their ability to achieve such results in this three-way fight, and this also proves that the government provides the necessary conditions, because in the 2021 budget we have all the resources to protect our borders and to carry out internal security tasks. If you look at the 2010 issue, there were more than 450 thousand known crimes in Hungary every year. I don't know the end-of-the-year data yet, because we're ahead of that, but I don't think I'm gonna risk a big mistake if I say it's gonna fall below 150,000, and we have every chance of making it better. I think that we have achieved significant results in this, and believe me, Congressman, that Hungarian policemen, Hungarian border hunters, are doing everything they can to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now it's a two-minute round again. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Hidvégi, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will try to respond briefly to some of the comments that have been made. One of them is who you're getting ready to get back together with. With that left-wing opposition, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has made one thing quite certain in recent years, that it cannot and will not be expected when the country needs support. I can only repeat that. Zoltán Balczó may have stood up for the migration policy of the Hungarian government in a debate in the European Parliament years ago, then he should be honoured for this personally, but his party now starts an election with him, who told the Hungarian electorate that there is no migration threat, that there will be no quota, no quota, no fence, there will be more footage of this, and not one, not two, but much, and this speaks for itself. In the same logic, questioning Viktor Orbán's commitment to migration, as Dániel Z. Kárpát tried to do earlier, I think it is quite ridiculous. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The kind leader must not be harmed!]] Serious people can't say that sober, that's my belief. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Disprove what I have said!]] The main issue in the whole debate is a decision-making question, a question of sovereignty, who and where to decide what to do in Hungary, whether to come in or not to be an immigrant, whether to need a country or not to have migrant workers, and if so, how much and for how long, and who to receive, because it is entitled to do so, and who is not. [[17.50]] Don't ask us to take care of an admitted person, Hungary respects the laws and regulations that it accepts, but those who arrive illegally do not. The debate that we are in, what we are fighting for on the European stage, is about this fundamental issue. On this basic issue, Hungarian opposition parties could not be expected, and even if there were individual exceptions, overall, it could not be expected in recent years, and absolutely cannot be expected in Brussels, in the European Parliament, I can say this from daily experience. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-205	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr Hidvéghi, I envy that he already knows that there will be a common list, there will be a joint programme, and in that joint programme on migration, the concept of Ferenc Gyurcsány will prevail. But how he gets that and why he lectures us is simply impossible for me. Once again, I did not feel any personal feelings when I spoke in the European Parliament as I did. We need to see how Márton Gyöngyösi votes, always against migration. Congressman Nacsa is right that this was nothing but duty. When you told me that I was waiting for you to slap my shoulder because we supported the legal border seal, which, of course, was an obligation in this case, I wouldn't have bragged about it, but you said that if it were up to Franciscan, [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Peter!]] It wouldn't be a legal lockdown. I didn't wish you to commend me, I only wished you to draw up the minutes, I quote that I should make it clear that we supported the legal border lock out of a national sense of duty. But once again, why are you so concerned about Jobbik in such a worrying way that you will not be able to enforce anything in such a cooperation, which you have achieved with the help of your fellow Member, with 71 binding Members' statements by saying that you, Mr Orbán, should be included in the common list. This is the opportunity I think there is for a party, and I'll say it again, it can be individual decisions, but you're forcing it into this, and then you're outraged. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-12-15-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place within a normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Hidvégi, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-207	I'm sorry, I didn't ask for the floor, Mr. President. Sorry, I must have hit the wrong button.
u2020-12-15-208	Excuse me, no problem, Congressman. I now give the floor to Member István Hollik, the KDNP Group.
u2020-12-15-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I see there's a temper between opposition representatives [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You have done much for him!]] Yeah, I'm still trying to keep this debate normal, and I'm trying to respond normally to sensible points. Unfortunately, in the case of Jobbik now, to be fair, Z. Carpathian was less, but I will also respond to it. Mr Head of the Cross Group, we agree in many respects, and we also expect you to do so if, by the way, you have to stand up for the Hungarian national interest, for example, against multinational companies. For example, this is what we did when we introduced the bank tax. I would just like to say again that you have joined forces with those who, by the way, sided with the banks, and have not supported the sharing of burdens, the sharing of burdens with the banks, I'm just saying. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You can write it off from the tax, István!]] Believe me, we don't have to worry about national interests. We're gonna protect them. By the way, if it is against the multinationals, for example, large technology companies, because I think that this debate of the future will have to stand up, against Facebook, Google and its associates, because they simply ignore national regulations, then we are counting on you, because we know that we may be able to rely on you in this case. At the same time, I think that it brings together two completely different things, immigration and free movement within the EU, in the interest of party policy. So you have just mentioned that we all wanted to join, and we also want Hungary to be a member of the European Union, but we have agreed that we have entered there so that everyone is free to work within the EU. Don't make us worry about the fact that, by the way, the salary in Hungary is a third as much as it is in Germany. Put this in the neck of the people you've joined together with, because 40 years of communism is the reason we're here. The Austrian citizen is no more talented than the German. He doesn't earn three times as much on average because he's more talented, but because there wasn't 40 years of communism there. The Hungarian people are going there because they are taking advantage of the opportunity that European Union membership offers us. Don't attack him right now, and don't wash these two things together. Immigration must be stopped, it is a danger, but the fact that there are many people in Hungary who are working abroad, treat these two things separately and do not wash them together. In this regard, please, I ask you only the correctness, that when you talk about this subject, Dániel Z. Kárpát did the same with a big breast, as he said, to mention that more people came home last year than they did. You can swing your heads, but the fact remains. This is due to the fact that Hungary has finally started raising its head, there is growth as our sovereignty increases, living conditions improve in Hungary, and the result is also seen by Hungarian citizens working abroad. More and more people are thinking that they are coming back to benefit from family support that is not available elsewhere in Europe, here, Hungary, in their own country. So I would like to ask you, Mr. Group Leader, not to confuse these two separate things, and not to try to act as if it were our fault that, by the way, there are differences in salaries, and not to say that, by the way, in the last ten years, there has been a rise in wages in Hungary that has never occurred in the last 30 years. We cut you down substantially, we keep cutting you off from the disadvantage that we have to suffer because of communism, we cut you down substantially. If we are outside the parliamentary horseshoe, then there are opposition representatives who will accept this, by the way; it is a pity that this is not possible within the parliamentary horseshoe. In response to Dániel Z. Carpathian, it is quite amazing that, if I understand it correctly, he started by saying how good it would be to pursue a consensual policy and reach consensus on certain matters. I would also like to see a consensus on immigration, for example, and I do not doubt that personally those who are so important to the debate that they come in could, by the way, cooperate with them on this issue, but the problem is that it is three or four Members, and that their respective parties are only a minority. At the same time, it is important to remember that Daniel Z. Carpathian comes in here, and when he talks about consensus and cooperation, then he starts bolsheviking us? ! Well, the Bolsheviks aren't supposed to be between us, they're supposed to be on the other side. I think when you talk about political wind cocks, we also point out that there is only one worse thing than a political wind cock: a party that betrays its own principles for power. I understand that the good guys don't like it, but that's what they're talking about. With regard to immigration, Mr Balczó, I would like to say once again that I do not want to question your commitment in this matter, what you say that this Commission proposal will be here, that it will be debated in the European Parliament, and I will envelop it in advance, and I think that you truly know that all your allies outside the European Parliament will vote for it, Klára Dobrev, Anna Donáth, István Ujhelyi, all of them will vote for it. It'd be nice if you could see that. This is the problem, that if Jobbik's position is that, in fact, it is a confession that power is more important than their own principles, and that their position in immigration will be given up or given up in order to gain power. [[18.00]] He says that Congressman Z. Kárpat, who is talking about a large vest, and at the same time is giving a speech here, and then storms out that he wants to make a consensus. Now I've written down nine minutes compared to that, and you've spoken 7:10 a.m. to the Fidesz-KDNP government. [[Intercoms from the lines of the LMP, including 7 minutes and 10 seconds!]] It is therefore difficult to reach consensus. In the end, he says that what we do about immigration is betraying national interests. But you just said, at the beginning of your speech, that he would support this proposal. Well, are you going to support betrayal of national interest? Well, just decide what you think about this. So if we, with this proposal that lies before us now, betray the national interest, how can you support it? That's what Daniel Z. Carpathian said. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] On the border guard, Mr Kontra has already responded, but I would like to say that when Jobbik talks about the border guard, it also means that they do not respect the work of police officers and soldiers who have excellent protection of borders and could be raised, and I think that the Hungarian government would be a partner in all the points concerning the protection of borders if it did not work well. But border protection works efficiently and well, which is why we can't interpret your proposal for a border guard any other way than a party political lounge, just to stand out and say a little bit different. But the borders can be effectively protected by Hungarian police and soldiers. Please, in the style that Dániel Z. Kárpát has just said here, who is not now taking part in this debate, so that you will now stand up and deny that you will not be protected effectively by border guards, soldiers and police officers today! Disprove him. 'Cause then we can talk about setting up an independent border guard, but until then, it's useless. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-15-210	Thank you. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would just like to reply briefly to Congressman Hollik. Yes, I am indeed defending national interests when I am committed to replacing you as a government, because in many respects, in many policy areas, you have been violating Hungarian national interests for many years. It is not my duty to protect Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, I am sure that he will return soon, and he will do so himself, but he did not talk about it. He was talking about exactly what you've been trying to do a little weirdly, that you've driven hundreds of thousands of people out of the country with your outrageous neoliberal policies. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What?!]] By keeping wages low, and on the other hand, they are trying to make up for it with migrant workers. Now, this is a betrayal of national interests, not when immigration, illegal migration, is protected from the border, which you are confusing. You weren't telling the truth, Congressman. The fact is that you had such a wild liberal political approach, and there is still a need to keep the Hungarian workforce cheap, to deprive the Hungarian workforce of its rights, to reduce workers' rights, and thus, specifically, the members of the Hungarian government have to tour, take János Kóka and their other policy friends and talk about how cheap the Hungarian labour force is. Well, it's this outrageous nation-treasoning politics, this neoliberal nation-treasoning politics! Even if you lie to yourself as conservative and national, you're not. Thus, with this policy, a crisis has been created that hundreds of thousands of people have left this country. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik:]] not to work, but to find a livelihood and to raise their children, and this is today the most important challenge and the most serious tragedy affecting the Hungarian nation in Hungary. And that treason, Congressman Hollik, is that when I ask a member of your government about this, and I tell you that one in six Hungarian children in motherland is born abroad, this would be the job? Then they say it's okay because the European common labour market is working. [[István Hollik intervenes.]] Is that the national concept? Or they say it's okay, because there are other Central European states where more people go. Yes, it is a tragedy, too, that more people have to go from here to the core states, so to speak of the European periphery, but I think it is still a tragedy for the nation, and it cannot be settled, and that in Hungary there is such a terrible tragedy... Dear Member, 15 thousand people have gone from my city of Pécs in ten years, not to learn a language, not to look around to see alas, but to see beautiful things in London, but because you have not given yourself the opportunity to earn enough money to support your family with honor, and your children here in Hungary can see their future... [[István Hollik stands up.]] Go away, shake your head, Congressman, yes, it is very difficult for you to face betraying national interests. [[István Hollik: You're lying!]] Congratulations. Congratulations, Congressman. That's KDNP's policy. You come here, you climb up on the side of Fidesz, you sit in Parliament, you come here, you get in line, you play hardball, you think it's about protecting national interests that it's tough and serial? ! [[István Hollik: You're lying! You're lying!]] Once I hear him speak up and confront the Russian interests, he goes against Putin, he goes against the Rust's economic interests, or he goes against the Chinese colonial aspirations! It would be, Mr Hidvégi, too, to protect national interests. György Soros should not be sending a message on Facebook, but should resist the Russian and Chinese great power efforts, should not make decisions to push the Chinese Budapest-Belgrád railway project with an encrypted project for nearly a thousand billion forints in the midst of such a serious economic crisis. Honourable Congressman, Only this year and next year, you will be sacrificing 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs on the altar of Chinese great power interests, in the midst of an economic crisis, a social crisis. Is this the freedom fight? And will Viktor Orbán arrange this by sending two Facebook messages to George Soros? This is not the defence of national interests; when faced with a... yes, difficult, strange geopolitical situation, it must be a very tough government that can combat such great authority interests. Your government fails to do so, we can say that they are practically such a Trojan horse here in terms of Russian Chinese push within the European Union. Yes, I represent the national position, I represent the national interests, I say that your government must be replaced. But it is completely independent of the fact that there are questions, let us say, in which we agree. And with you guys, you might say, conducting such a communication campaign on migration, we have also said that this is indeed a question of fate, this is a challenge that needs to be addressed, and I would be the happiest if we were not talking about George Soros and Gyurcsány, but about this problem and, above all, what is behind this, what is the reason for this migration crisis, and what needs to be done at national level, as at European level, to reduce migratory pressure. They got up, you guys were ringing, serializing, clowning, doing everything, I didn't hear a single word about how to deal with the causes of migration. Why is the European Union constantly vetoing its efforts to combat climate change? Well, it's also a matter of fate. Well, you can't always give President Erdoğan money and make friends with him and go to him and take pictures together, you can't trust Erdoğan to protect Europe. The causes of migration need to be reduced, which is why we need to act, and that is why we need joint European cooperation, together with the maximum support for national sovereignty on immigration, and we will always support this. But common European action is needed to combat climate change, environmental destruction, and a political turn is needed not to dominate the interests of corporate profits, not multi-company interests, at every moment, because this is what causes the tragedies in the periphery area that lead to a real collapse, to various conflicts of war, and then ultimately to migration, escape, migration, which is what we are talking about here. These issues should be discussed, but these matters can be continued with European cooperation, but believe that the solution is not to talk about György Soros, or to send Facebook messages, but not to create hate, not to make a poster campaign, not to solve the migration crisis, but to speak honestly about the root causes and to be able to handle them. I would expect this from the Government of Hungary, I expect this from MEPs, and I expect this from the opposition representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-212	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I now give the floor for two minutes to Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-213	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd like to respond to a few things, because it's good what Mr. Crusades says, and he's a faction leader, and he's teaching us, and here he's pointing at us in outrage at why we're saying that Gyurcsány, when you're with him, and you're supporting him back into power, and why we say that to you, Gyurcsány, but look at it, Mr. Congressman, last year in the EP campaign for you [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , the LMP... (The president rang.)
u2020-12-15-214	Time's up.
u2020-12-15-215	Then I'll ask my colleagues, thank you. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2020-12-15-216	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-217	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to address Mr Hidvégi and Mr Nacsa: it is possible that a situation may arise on the basis of your amendment of the electoral law, that there will be a common list of the opposition, that is linked to a joint programme, and then you will say that this alliance can then be about true. But what do they say we're in an alliance now? How does it manifest itself? On a particular issue, the left-wing opposition and Jobbik or LMP have said the same thing, and it is said on your part that the opposition has come together. On the same day, we take a completely different position on a particular issue, because we are not in an alliance, they stand up and they say, "What kind of alliance is this, where there is a breakdown of harmony? Well, believe me, it's absurd, and again on this subject, when I think I'd like to close it, I'm forced to speak again and again with the Gyurcsány provocation. [[18.10]] I would like to ask Mr Lőrinc Nacsa to take a look at my speech, because you said that I said that I said that there was no mandatory quota risk. Look, I told you how smart it is to end up taking over a lot of people. At least you'll accept that I didn't deny that. One more, very briefly, how do you know how many people have left Hungary, say, England? In my circle of acquaintance there are people who have gone out, have a permanent address, pay off the scholarship, come home to vote, pay for the social security, renew all the IDs. How does anyone know he's been living in England for five years? That's what I'm asking.
u2020-12-15-218	Thank you. I give the floor to Balázs Hidvégi, MEP, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A brief reaction, if I may, to Congressman László Keresztes. Hungary is on more feet in foreign policy, we have said this several times before, this is the right solution. Our relationship, our economic relationship, our political relationship with Russia, China, Turkey, the United States, and so on, is right, we need to stand on more feet. Hungary needs openness with these powers, we serve the Hungarian economic interest and political interests if we are both speaking and in good relations with these countries without getting involved in unnecessary ideological disputes or other battles. This is a realistic and good national foreign policy. We need to work on a European solution, I agree with you, both on migration and otherwise on climate change. On climate issues, however, it will not be up to Hungary that we have supported, and have done so now, any agreement, any commitment based on forward-looking and well-founded calculations. We set an example in migration issues. The fact is that Viktor Orbán's policy and the action of Hungarian policy against immigration are now being referred to as a model, and even our opponents acknowledge that this is a stand-alone policy, which differs from the main line, dared to enter into a debate with the Brussels canon, the mainstream, five years ago, which is part of the respect that it triggers and shows the results. In our own way, in our own place, in our own size, we have shown that migration can be stopped by border fences, with the border fence that the entire opposition practically attacked. I appeal to Mr Balczó, my final point: when we wanted a constitutional amendment against resettlement in 2016, following a referendum where more than three million people said that this could be rejected, we could not ultimately count on Jobbik. Here in Parliament, Gábor Vona did his best, maneuvered until he was voted. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] So that's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about reliability. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-15-220	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, 15 minutes and 52 seconds left for the author. Here you go.
u2020-12-15-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[They're putting a manual microphone in front of the speaker because of a voice error.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have been through one of the last debates of the autumn session this evening, and it is a special pleasure for me that this important issue could be on the agenda, thanks to the speed of the exceptional procedure, so we have not lost this opportunity, but we have been able to take advantage of the eight weeks available for comment, which we are required by European laws. I would like to thank my fellow Members, in particular the members of the Committee on European Affairs, for their active participation in the debate that has already been held at the committee's meeting, and also in the debate this evening, although, apart from the fact that a lot has been said on both sides, which does not specifically give the essence of this report. But we are a parliament, obviously migration, which is the main topic of this report, is a topic that generates a lot of ideas, both pro and versus versus. We all agreed that the issue of illegal migration is an important issue. I would just like to note here that in the debates of the last one and a half to two years, I have often seen the confusion between migration and illegal migration. Here and what the report is talking about is, in particular, illegal migration. This has already been said by the Western European press, accusing us that we have closed our borders. Hungary has not closed its borders, we have only closed the green borders, the crossing of which is illegal. So anyone who wanted to come to Hungary legally in the past or even this year can do it. But that's not what's happening. And that is why it is important to have a clear distinction between any debate between migration and illegal migration, and I see that there is agreement between us that the issue of illegal migration is a matter that determines not only the future of Hungary but also the future of the entire continent. In this connection, because that is what this whole report is all about, in this connection the Hungarian Parliament must use this license that we are doing now: let us take the liberty of initiating such investigations, because the Hungarian Parliament must hear its voice not only in internal politics, but also in European Union policies throughout Europe; because it deserves us, as we say, the right of ius Murandi and ius resistendi, i.e. the right of resistance. Ladies and gentlemen, The examination of subsidiarity and the wording of the reasoned opinion are therefore a legal instrument that I have repeatedly said in the Lisbon Treaty. The Hungarian Parliament now makes use of this legal opportunity. It's our constitutional duty, by the way. And therefore, in this respect, I thank both Jobbik and the LMP and an independent fellow Member for adopting this report, and, as has been said in the debate, they will support tomorrow's report which drew attention to the fact that the European Commission's migration regulations or regulations are bleeding out of a thousand wounds. This is explicitly stated in our report, which I said in the expoze, and I do not want to waste time on the five points in which our committee and we hope that the Hungarian Parliament also found the draft regulation of the European Commission to be against subsidiarity. Migration is a real threat, not what Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, has said to me to this day that migration is a good thing: the migration is the good phenomenon. Well, over the last three years, it has been clear to everyone in Europe that this is not the case. And I'm sorry that the Secretary-General of the United Nations is still sticking to that conclusion. As representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, I feel that it is our constitutional duty to draw Europe's attention to this. [[18.20]] What has been happening in Western Europe since 2015 is unfortunately not fiction, not alarm, but bloody reality. And unfortunately, the real danger is in Europe's everyday lives, as some of my fellow Members have said, that no-go zones were forbidden to be spoken about earlier, and today we see what problems it can cause even in Brussels. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, when Hungary built the border closure in 2015, we protected Hungary from precisely these events, which have unfortunately been repeated in many countries of Europe since then, from those sad events and the consequences of migration. It worked, no matter what anyone says. And as my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, mentioned, this is only added to a number of European Union societies by the fact that this, which has started since 2015, is unfortunately irreversible. As the border closure clearly protected Hungarian citizens and Hungary's sovereignty, this report, which I hold in my hand, serves exactly the same purpose. This report, as well as the border closure, draws the attention of the European Union, the Member States of the European Union, to the dangers of migration to the European Union. It draws attention to the fact that the European Commission has unfortunately given insufficient responses to the challenges of migration over the last three years; it has not been able to deal with it, and that is unfortunately a fact. It is therefore our responsibility in the Hungarian Parliament to make this report to send a reasoned opinion to the European Commission. Because the Pact on Asylum and Migration is also welcomed with reservations by several European Union parliaments, not only by the Visegrad countries, but especially by the Swedish and Danish parliaments, where subsidiarity testing has an old tradition. And today's debate and tomorrow's vote, hopefully, will encourage several parliaments to adopt a reasoned opinion in the three weeks ahead, in order to try to strengthen the European Union. The positions of national Parliaments cannot just be swept off by the European Commission. The European Commission cannot exercise any more rights than it has been conferred on it in the contract. The principle of Nemo plus iuris was already known in Roman law and must live in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, This report draws attention to the need for the European Commission to change this migration pact, which is a draft. But we can see that a number of Commissioners are already treating it as ready, because they say that they will certainly accept it, and unfortunately, I do not stand in the line of those who are always in line, but, it is ringing with George Soros's 2015 study that he published. And unfortunately, that's the truth. We must also draw attention to this, but first of all to the European Commission, that it must change here for the sake of Europe's security, so that it cannot happen in the past two or three years. A death is terrible, but more than 300 have died; and I do not want to appear demagogic, but these are also serious facts. The European Commission has been less able to contribute to protecting the European Union from these events. Ladies and gentlemen, I abstained from taking note of the proposals made by my fellow opposition Members, but, as chairman of the committee, I do not wish to answer that question, but I would like to maintain that national minimum, that consensus. [[Peter Ungár intervenes. Zoltán Balczó: Good!]] what this report contains; on the five draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council which form the asylum and migration pact, a reasoned opinion will be adopted, as we hope, in tomorrow's plenary session. This shows that, in some cases, the parliamentary parties feel the gravity of this, that there is a problem with European migration management, and in this we, the Hungarian Parliament, must do everything we can to do what the legislative opportunity gives us. That is what we did this evening, as much as the air was hot from the debate many times, but the point is, ladies and gentlemen, that those who are here support this report. I consider that valuable. And let me say that I am sorry that neither the MSZP nor DK participated in this debate. This indicates that they do not wish to reveal themselves. I do not wish to consider this politically, but this act is self-deprecating, this act. Ladies and gentlemen, The reasoned opinion is here before us, and I believe that we have made our position sound, and that is why it is important that the Parliament takes this decision tomorrow. I hope that this will help the European Commission to improve the pact that it has planned so far, since it is unfortunately not for the future of the European Union. Mr President, Thank you for listening.
u2020-12-15-222	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Our City, Pécs 38." I give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-12-15-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, I would like to talk about my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, the problems affecting the region and the city, as I do. At today's parliamentary session, we also heard a number of pro-government speeches where they denied the effects of the government's austerity policy, although it is clear that the government unfortunately enforced austerity measures in this extremely difficult epidemiological and crisis period in such a way that they were not necessary. It can be seen that there are still resources in the budget, there are the possibilities of redeployment that would have given the government the leeway so that the municipalities or the university sphere would not have to suffer such brutal austerity measures. During the spring first wave, it was evident that the municipalities were the number one bastions of the disease control, and they are now fighting to preserve the health and safety of the people living there. And it can be seen that even in areas that are in an economically difficult situation, the municipalities have taken action beyond power, and very often measures have been taken to prevent the government's actions. Therefore, it is a serious and fraudulent policy to impose restrictions on local authorities, such as the taking of a vehicle tax or the shameful measure that the State has withdrawn from public support for local public transport. We could list for a long time the measures with which the government did not support the government, and the majority of the Parliament's pro-governments did not support the municipalities, but prevented them, made their work difficult, making it difficult to defend themselves. Unfortunately, beyond the municipalities, restrictions have already reached the university sphere. I have argued here many times with Minister of State Bódis, Rector, on this issue, that the government has withdrawn nearly HUF 20 billion from universities, and this has extremely serious, inaccessible effects. Nearly HUF 2 billion, HUF 1.9 billion were taken from the University of Pécs, which has a very serious impact on the functioning of the university. It is quite clear that such a austerity measure, such a restriction, will not be possible for the university to manage, and this will entail cuts, and will not be able to fully maintain the current functions of the university, in many respects its educational functions. This was a dilettious, malicious measure on the part of the government without any basis, and I find it particularly outrageous that the Pécs and the Pécs live pro-government representatives did not raise their voice against austerity. Mr.Péter Hoppál did nothing, did not speak, and did not vote against these austerity measures, and similarly Csaba Nagy, living Member of Pécs, did not stand next to the city of Pécs and did not oppose the austerity measures of the Orbán government. [[18.30]] Not long ago, a few weeks ago, Peter Hoppál held a press conference and triumphantly announced that the University of Pécs received HUF 5.7 billion from the Hungarian government. This was an extremely shady announcement, as Péter Hoppál forgot to add that this support does not go into the operation of the university, but ends up in the pocket of Lőrinc Mészáros's companies. After all, in 2017, Lőrinc Mészáros' companies won the acquisition of a new building of the General Medical Faculty of the University of Pécs. Since then, this investment has been so expensive, the performance of Lőrinc Mészáros has been so expensive that it was simply necessary to complete the investment, so this support is practically not for the operation of the University of Pécs, but for the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros. Of course, in addition to protest, we took steps to protect the University of Pécs, so we launched a petition, and as long as we could, as long as the epidemiological restriction and situation allowed, we collected signatures on the street almost every day. Thousands of Pécs signed this petition, thousands of Pécs protesting the government's austerity. We have achieved so much that, not so long ago, Mr Secretary of State made a statement of confidence, acknowledged that these austerity measures were indeed not correct, and that the measure had already begun with the Government on how to make up for these funds to universities. I think that this is the right measure, this is the right step when we see that some kind of government measure actually causes serious damage to a university, damages the city that hosts the university, and, I add, the whole county, in cooperation with its inhabitants and the citizens of Pécs, we can achieve results even in such a difficult situation, even against a two-thirds majority. However, it is sad in itself that the city's pro-government representatives did nothing, and they felt that they were loyal to Viktor Orbán and his government at every moment, and did not represent the interests of the locals. I think Pécs and Baranya County deserve more than that. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-15-224	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Who takes care of the caregivers? It's an address. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-225	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, This is probably one of the last meetings of the Parliament this year, and I would like to talk about what it is now certain that Parliament could not decide in its autumn session. One of these, and I have said this several times in Parliament, is that social workers have been left out of the one-time payment of HUF 500,000, which would cost the budget HUF 45 billion. I don't want to tell you what more than HUF 45 billion has been spent on, because I think everyone can fit almost any line of items into it according to their own imagination. It is also certain that the home care fee has not been raised to the minimum wage level for those who do not care for their children, so in most cases they care for their family with dementia at home. I would link this hyathe, which the Parliament has caused to Hungarian people, with an actuality. Katalin Novak, Minister of Family Affairs, recently spoke in a video about many things, including how caring is important. He said that we have to acknowledge the caring work, and I think, although there's not much in that video that I personally agree with, that's probably the only thing I agree with. At the same time, the fact that he tells me how important care is is is against the fact that I said that although in videos and animations they say that care is important, people who are having children are depressed, but when it comes to the appreciation of the Hungarian people who are caring, their wallets are not. That's the thing. The other is that she spoke about why the pay gap between women and men is as it is and indicated that a woman does not necessarily have to earn as much as a man. The difference in wages between women and men in a given job does not give a complete picture, and it is not a good statistics, since it does not examine the number of women's professions in Hungary. 90 percent of workers in the social sector are women, a large proportion of teachers are women, which, by the way, if you look at a healthy male picture from child development, is also a problem, only this conservative side deals with little, and a significant part of the total number of public employees is growing. This is simply because the salaries are extremely low. Not to talk about why these professions are feminine, it's a very serious problem. The problem in itself is not that 90 percent of women in the social sector are worth examining why this is so, but why there are 90,000 people who get the guaranteed minimum wage for a job that the government, at least sometimes in words, sometimes not even, recognizes. I'm moving on to the teachers. If the government had such a nostalgia about how a family could be maintained on a salary long ago, because it was not the case for the majority of people in Hungary, and it was not the case in an agricultural family, but it was a long time ago, for example, between the two world wars, a high school teacher's existence meant a middle class existence, it meant that they could live safely. It's not like that today, it's the exact opposite. How can you expect someone to take care of three children, support your wife, support your mother-in-law if they need to be supported for some reason, and do so from about 200,000 net forints, because that's what teachers pay. So, overall, I want to say that this session has shown that conservative propaganda is good for building a utopia that has nothing to do with the way they currently live in Hungary, they have lost touch with reality, and even though they say nice things where money is put, what is important to them, everyone knows what things they are spending on, and they don't spend it to at least apply the principles they're supposed to stand for. So if Katalin Novak cares about caring work, then he's trying to make sure that by Christmas this year the social workers get the one-time payment of HUF 500,000, and if it's important for him to have a family to live on, then raise those people. who receive their salaries according to the civil servant's payroll.
u2020-12-15-226	Thank you. Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "During the closure of the year" in the county of North Vas. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-15-227	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Looking back to 2020, the first word is thanks. Everyone who has done so either by complying with the rules or through their vocation to deal with the situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic is to be recognised. Allow me, first of all, to pay tribute to the parish governor István Dumovits, who has served as a priest for 50 years in the county of North Vas, Croatia and Hungary. On the other hand, I would also like to pay tribute to György Bakos, who has resigned from the presidency of the Kőszeg City Concert Flute Orchestra. We thank him for his decades of work, which has increased not only the quality of the wind band, but also the cultural recognition of Kőszeg. God bless any local community or organization that remembers this year's anniversary related to its past! Dear House, Several major steps were taken in 2020 to develop the North Vas County. In terms of cities, if we move according to the alphabet, the first stage of the renovation of the social centre, the bicycle road construction, the new square in front of the church and the road to Csepreg has been handed over. We can report on the expansion of the Bük waste water treatment plant and the industrial park and Nestlé. Celldömölk was involved in the renewal of the Centre of Commons, kindergarten renovations, sports park and running circle. One of the city's major employers, Wewalka's new investment was supported by state aid. The rescue station has increased with a new ambulance. Through a government decision, I was able to report that the main road through downtown could be renewed and a central source for the design of the Izakfa bicycle route. He was awarded 200 million dollars in kindergarten development and 268 million in kindergarten development. The city's road to Kőszeg was reborn from nearly half a billion state resources. Government resources have also come to operation and to the cemetery. We have announced in Kőszeg that the city has been supported for the renovation of churches, roads, nursery, parking, cemetery and operation. The new road to the border, Pogányi út, Kőszegfalvi bike path, the market, the Crown Keeper Memorial, the Benedictine Order, the Bell Tower Inn, the farm, the new vineyard processing plant was handed over. [[18.40]] The first phase of the development of the Várkör has been renewed: János Kiss, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Street, and the reconstruction of Dózsa Street has started. The city is affected by the construction of the railway between Szombathely-Kőszeg. Répcelak was affected by 120 million cradle development, billion-dollar network expansion, and was the beneficiary of these. Government support was granted to the city's big employer, the Liss cartridge manufacturer. We were able to hand over the Radó house, which commemorates the great figure of Vas county, and on the other hand made the city centre even more beautiful. In Sárvár the main road was renewed, the railway station was built, the Sárvár Arena, the mountain biking road was built. The government provided 1.8 billion dollars in funding for the bath's loan. Supports have begun to repair the area affecting the boating lakes. In addition, Sárvár also received considerable resources for nursery development. The road to M86 has been completely renewed. In addition, it received 315 million for nursery development and 282 million for bicycle road construction. North Vas County was affected by the government's decision to establish the tourist area of Bük-Sárvár. This wonderful landscape will await the old and new guests from Kőszeg to Celldömölk with the end of the epidemic. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian village program won 111 applications, worth nearly 1.5 billion HUF. Several small settlements have also received resources for nursery and kindergarten development, precipitation water drainage, water quality improvement. The Nick dam and flood protection systems have been renovated by large investments in northern Vas county, the M86 family resting place has been established, and Lukácsháza is also undergoing major industrial development. Thanking the volunteer firefighters for their work, I would point out that 22 associations received support from the Ministry of Interior this year. During this cold period, it may be important to note that 36 municipalities have received social firewood support. Dear House, I trust that in 2021 we can overcome the epidemic and work together to build further, to improve the beauty of North Vas County. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-15-228	Thank you. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, also came forward after the agenda, with the title "Deleted from the map." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-15-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Three days ago, on December 12, at 12:28 p.m., shocking news shook South Somogy, a small local news portal with 6500 followers published a post. What was that post again? It's a photograph. It included the local government's Christmas food package in a small settlement in the area: a few kilos of flour, a few pounds of sugar, food oil, some tablets of chocolate, salami. In an area of 80,000, this news has reached tens of thousands of people. I wasn't lazy, and I watched what 26 other posts had achieved during the weekend, Saturday and Sunday: half of them. I believe that this phenomenon, like a sad drop in the sea, shows the reality of the tragedy of the Hungarian countryside, how people live there, in South Somogy and Inner Somogy, contrary to government propaganda. With such news, the distribution of a few kilograms of food can cause such a stir. I think it's a tragedy and it's truly a shock. What led you here? We can go back to the Tatar, the Turks, Trianon, but the thing is, the Fidesz has been ruling by two thirds for ten and a half years, so the responsibility is theirs. There is a continuity obviously, let's say, the communist national settlement network development concept in 1971, which was in fact nothing more than the evil and rotten plan of rural destruction, between the neoliberal regime change and the current rural policy. If we look at the diagnosis that we see there, we see that the region, which is mostly composed of the settlements of the Barcsi, Csurgó and Nagyatád districts, has decreased by 10 percent over the last ten years, from 67 thousand to about 60 thousand inhabitants, which, in terms of its proportions, is a larger population loss than the loss of Hungary's people in World War II when the population of the country has decreased by 7 percent. Let's look at the size of the emigration loss: it also accounts for 4,000 people from this overall population loss. I looked at the birth and death data for 2018, as this is the only one found in the national spatial development information system, and the data for 2019 are not yet available: 596 children born God cheer them up! On the other hand, 1064 of our countrymen have lost their lives in this region. If everything goes on, then the prophecy that says that there will be no settlements left in Transdanubia, if they are no closer than 80 to 100 kilometers to Budapest, is further than 20 kilometers away from Lake Balaton, and let's say that the district center is less than 20,000 people, then these settlements will disappear and are doomed to death. That's what Jobbik says no to, and we want to change that with a hopeful change of government in 2022. Let's see who stays in the countryside, what the landscape will look like if everything goes on like this. South American differences, Latin American differences, huge gap between banana public companies, on the one hand, agro barons that have become billionaires on the fat of the communities there, on the other hand, they are stuck in a hopeless poverty, a wreck society existence... and, as the serfs of centuries ago who were bound to a clot, they are bound to poverty, that area, they remain there. From a pro-government side, they like to flash here with the development money of the Hungarian village. I checked 30,000 forints each for the affected population this year. However, they no longer boast that the new loan taken out by the government puts 90 thousand forints of debt on each Hungarian citizen's neck there, in South Somogy, from an infant to an old man. Ladies and gentlemen, over there on the pro-government side. Looking at the Heavens, looking at the Simonkas, the Happy Ones, or even the Blacksmiths, who, strangely speaking, grow palaces running on their estates in camouflage from the ground, the question has to be asked that the Fidesz congressman was right. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr. Tiffan, who had been vanished and forced to the shoreline when he said that " Viktor!" Don't you see? They're mobsters! Yes, we also say that they are mobsters who gain weight on the money that belongs to Hungarian rural people in South Somogy. I wish rural Hungary and South Somogy a blessed Advent period and a merry Christmas! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-15-230	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, who also applied to speak after the agenda from Jobbik: "Yes or no? It's an address. Here you go, notary.
u2020-12-15-231	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since May 2018, I have been a Member of Parliament, and since then I have had the honour of speaking here in Parliament more than a hundred times. This year, too, I have asked a number of questions on behalf of people, on issues concerning people, from which, if I may, I would like to recall a few of them. Regarding the hospital in Marcal, I wanted to know when the promises of Attila Móring József, the rescue helicopter landing, the emergency center with CT equipment and the independent hospital would be fulfilled. And once the independent hospital is completed, what will that mean in practice? Are you going to have a higher standard of health care in Marcali? I also asked why, despite previous promises and decisions, road 68 had not been fully renewed. And how could a project that wasn't actually built be viewed as being built in the ministry? I also asked a number of questions about bicycle roads; for example, why, contrary to previous promises, the bike road connecting Budapest to Balaton was not built, why they did not make the bike circle in Balaton safer, and why the organic bicycle route connecting Mesztegnyő with Balatonmáriafürdő was not built. [[18.50]] And speaking of constructions, I also wondered whether the Ministry's opinion was that the construction of the MotoGP track in the area outside of Sávoly, which had already been rendered unfit for agriculture, or the dissecting of hundreds of hectares of agricultural land near Hajdúnánás, would be a reasonable solution. Since these questions have not been answered, I thought of simplifying my questions and making it easier for the respondents to ask questions to decide, by making it easier for them to just say yes or no. I asked Prime Minister about his support for the possibility of offering corporate tax to public health institutions in addition to visual sports. Yes or no? And what I wanted to learn from Mr. Deputy Minister is that he's gonna have more doctors in Marcali, fewer waiting lists, reboot obstetrics, reboot the pediatric ward, get a CT out of him. I wanted to know from the Secretary of State that she thought that she was a sports mailing agent to support Croatian football players with Hungarian taxpayers' money, and that again this year, according to the usual practice, she would transfer a thousand million forints to the account of the Nogometn Club Osijek. Yes or no? And I asked Mr. Secretary of State that he would be willing to complete the road 68 during 2021; he would be willing to keep his promises, to build and renovate bicycle roads for hundreds of thousands of people; he would expand the M7 to three lanes, and with government help he would complete the MotoGP track, Balatonring. Now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to turn to you now and ask you a question. Do you think I've been given answers? No, I didn't. And, you know, it's not that they didn't give me an answer, the problem is they didn't give people an answer because they ignored them. But in a year and a half, in the privacy of the polling booths, the people who are now offended will decide that they will want to continue with these cocky answers in the future. Yes or no? Well, that's the question, and people, including so many proud Somogy citizens, will answer them. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-15-232	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first extraordinary meeting of the winter session will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. Have a good rest.
