u2020-05-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Apart from Dóra Dúró and János Volner, none of the opposition representatives are in the Chamber.]] Dear House, The Parliament's festive session on 2 May is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in leading this meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and László Földi. Dear Parliament, Please stand and welcome President János Áder. [[The people in the room greet Dr. János Áder, who will take his place in the box of honor.]] Thank you. Dear House, Today's celebration will take place thirty years after the establishment of a democratic Hungarian representative, freely elected as a result of the negotiated transition from the forty-five years of communist dictatorship, called the regime change, on 2 May 1990. I would like to welcome President János Áder, members of the government, Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and the ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament and of the European Parliament who have appeared. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring today's festive session. I will let you know that, according to our original plans, today we would have had a sitting in this Chamber, which would have been invited by all those who took an oath thirty years ago among the walls of this House. Unfortunately, however, this important date and event of our history can only be remembered under the present circumstances because of the pandemic that is affecting the world. For this reason, allow me, on behalf of all of us, to welcome all our distant former fellow Members who participated in the work of the Parliament elected in 1990, and who may not be present personally, but may be celebrating with us in their homes. Thank you for your service in the nation's trust, as well as for all the work that you have done for the country after you have appointed your representatives, and we wish them good health! [[It's a long applause.]] Allow me to highlight by name those who, by the grace of the Lord of History, have been given the privilege of being present today in a public office. Welcome Prime Minister Viktor Orbán , Minister Mihály Varga, Presidents of Parliament, Richard Hörcsik, Lajos Kósa and Zsolt Németh (Applause.) and Mr Tamás Deutsch, Head of the European Parliament delegation of Fidesz and KDNP. (Applause) Ladies and Gentlemen, Sadly, we must also state that 131 of our former Members of Parliament between 1990 and 1994 are no longer among the living. I ask you to show our respect for them with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the dead Members with a one-minute silence.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is an obligation to remember; it is a duty of grace to the signs of our past, which we owe to them, but we serve ourselves, the people living in the present, by protecting from forgetting all the value and achievement that they have helped the community to live through the ordeals of centuries. Thus, remembering also means using the standard certified by history to measure ourselves and to separate the good from the bad, the truth from the false. But remembering and reminding most of all is our debt to the future, and failing to pay it off, we can easily put the following in a vulnerable position. Dear Friends! We, even today, are active generations of system change, children of peace, whose life or career has so far been free from community trials and tragedies that family memory has made personal experience and inner reality for us against lying textbooks and party state propaganda at the time. The stories of our grandparents about two world wars, Trianon, occupations, the dreaded months and years of the reign of two totalitarian regimes, the stories of our parents about 1956 or 1968, their daily struggles in front of our eyes became our knowledge of life, so that we can better understand what happened in Poland in 1980-81, and what happens to us in the following years. Similarly, the inaugural meeting of 30 years ago was opened as President of the National Assembly of 1947, and Béla Varga, who kept the blazing flame of national sovereignty in emigration until the age of 88, Kálmán Kéri, Pál Demjén, and then János Horváth, László Varga, Mária Wittner, and others, who held the post-mortem office of the inaugural meeting, made their piece of history a reality, connecting the past before the loss of our national sovereignty with the future of regaining it. However, the chain of personal history seems to be broken. Our generation's word is no longer authenticated before the future of us by a story of suffering such as those who have come before us. However, it does not diminish, on the contrary, our responsibility to do everything to keep the future generations from getting lost in the mazes of apparent times of peace, to try to keep them from having historical experiences that make good and bad different for them, the truth and the false, democracy and authoritarianism, freedom and lack thereof. That is why we must remember the first day of our regained self-determination. I respectfully invite Mr János Áder, Member of the Parliament elected in 1990, to give his speech as President of Hungary. [[11.10]]
u2020-05-02-1	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The words of Béla Varga, who had to flee abroad from arrest in June 1947 and only returned home at the age of 87 in 1990. On 2 May 1990, the president of the last freely elected National Assembly was able to address the freely elected representatives at the inaugural meeting of the National Assembly. He knew exactly what Hungary lost in 1947, when the night of oppression fell on the country. Like him, many emigrated, and those who stayed at home had no choice but to take the leave of absence into their own inner freedom. Without the internal freedom preserved in this way, we could not have reached 1956 or 1990. For this reason, the former president of the National Assembly thanked the Hungarian nation that, I quote, he had preserved his love of freedom in more than four decades in such a way that he could not have reached this point to this day. Dear House, Thirty years ago, on this day, May 2nd, we closed an era. At the inaugural meeting of the National Assembly, three people spoke in favour of Mátyás Szűrös interim president of the Republic and György Szabad, later president of the National Assembly: Béla Varga, Vince Vörös, Kéri Kálmán three witnesses. Their personal history was also a good example of why we had to close a 45-year-old historical era, why we had to sign up to build a new political, public and constitutional system. Today's Parliament has only seven members who were part of the historic moment thirty years ago. The youngest representative of today's Parliament was not even born on 2 May 1990, and many of them were still familiar with the rules of social cooperation in kindergarten. [[Defiance.]] It is worth recalling, then, the era that we have completed, because that system, even if it was a lie to popular democracy, was a dictatorship. That system was indeed a dictatorship. In 1990 we closed an era in which immunity could not prevent the removal of the Secretary-General of the largest parliamentary party, Béla Kovács, to the Soviet Union. We closed an era in which the Prime Minister of Hungary, Ferenc Nagy, was forced to resign in a political crime scene. We ended a time when the electorate's decision was ignored by fraud, and by force the Communists took all the power into their hands. Instead of a multi-party system, instead of a party centre, vote instead of a election, Presidential Council replacing Parliament, legislative decree replacing laws, councils, freedom of speech instead of censorship, freedom of assembly barriers, national traditions instead of ban trees, revolution counterrevolution, independent justice instead of popular courts, legality instead of conceptual lawsuits. This system was difficult to give the new one space. On October 30, 1989, the new electoral law was published, but on the same day, the Budapest Committee of the MSZP organised a wreath in honor of the defenses of the Republic's party house in Square. The four-yes referendum took place on 26 November, but a few days later, Károly Grósz called the abolition of the Labour Guard a political error. On 22 December Mátyás Szűrös set the date of the parliamentary elections, but a long month earlier the MSZP invited Hungarian society to celebrate the great socialist revolution in October. Ladies and Gentlemen, Freedom is always a task. He was waiting for the new Parliament, which was established on 2 May 1990, to build a rule of law, create the conditions for freedom, strengthen its constitutional foundations, create institutions of democracy and popular sovereignty. Today, after thirty years, we remember this day. In the work of the first Parliament, his commitment to reform, the enthusiasm of 1848, the wisdom and the courage of reconciliation were present at the same time. Thank you to all those who, with their knowledge, diligence and dedication, helped to create a new political and constitutional institutional system. Thank you to those who were involved in the public-law occupation, which is comparable to the legislative process of 1848. Thanks to Árpád Göncz, the first President of Hungary born in 1990. Thanks to József Antall, the first Prime Minister of Hungary born in 1990. Thanks to György Szabad, the first president of the Parliament, which was again elected freely in 1990. [[Applause from the governing parties and János Volner.]] Ferenc Deák, a few years after the depressed fight of independence, at the beginning of the difficult work of the compromise, said: our first and most sacred duty is to devote all our strength and all our talents to Hungary staying in Hungary. CHAPTER XX The end-of-the-century changeling generation may have faced even greater challenges thirty years ago: we had to fight for Hungary to be Hungary again; a home that we can all call our own; an independent country that is not a minister, a henchman to anyone; a community where patriotism means not only the loyalty of people, but also the loyalty of the state to its loyal citizens. In 1989, Hungary was awakened by public mourning from its decades of agony. While the redeployment of Imre Nagy and his martyrs brought about the revolution in the souls, the Opposition Round Table prepared a constitutional transformation. [[11.20]] In the political change, there was the decades of patience of those who sighed, the loud cry of those who wanted to change, the desire to step on the stage of public life, and the determination of those who gave their heads political shaping. In the spring of 1990, after 45 years, the country was free to choose again, but the brigade of work was still to come. He was waiting for the new legislation to create democratic institutions in Hungary, to provide all citizens of Hungary with long-awaited freedoms. It was waiting for the new Members to take seven-mile steps on the path where our economy will become market-, competition- and private property-based, where we will conclude new strong alliances between equal parties, where borders will become interoperable, where we will be members of NATO and the European Union; when Hungary will be Hungary again. Dear House, It is unique in Hungarian public law, which happened in Hungary in 1989-90. During the negotiations of the Opposition Round Table and the trialogue political negotiations, the institutional framework for Hungary's new political system was established in a few months. At the same time, we could rely on Hungary's traditions of public law and on constitutional solutions in Western Europe. Few people know, but in Hungary, for example, the spending of public funds has been audited by the State Audit Office since 1870, as the law authorities today say: the legislation on the work of local governments dates back to 1886. But we also built on public-law solutions after 1945, for example when we rebuilt the President of the Republic's legal institution instead of the President's Council. The experiences and solutions of other countries complemented Hungarian traditions well. That is how our legal system became part of the constructive motion of mistrust on the German sample, the Constitutional Court following the Austrian-German model, or the Ombudsman's system set up first in Sweden. The work started at the Opposition Round Table and sanctioned by the Parliament of 89 was completed by the new Parliament. Already in June 1990, the first constitutional amendment was made, followed by five additional amendments by the end of the year. In just a few months, the institutional and rule system of the autumn municipal elections had to be established. The first Parliament had to establish the judicial system of a modern rule of law: laws on courts, prosecutors, lawyers, notaries. The legislation of the market economy replacing the design economy had to be established: economic law, competition law, bankruptcy law, economic chambers law, anti-money laundering law. New rules for land planning, land publishing and land use had to be adopted. The world of work had to be redoed, and church property had to be provided for. We have devoted many hours to the question of compensation, but the legal regulation of state holidays and symbols was also waiting for a solution. Thirty years ago, at the inaugural session of the Parliament, but even on the last sitting of the first term, we could have rightly quoted Lajos Kossuth, who said in June 1848, in the first Parliamentary Assembly of Hungary, that it is impossible not to believe, it is impossible to be convinced that there is any difference between opinions in this house, the holy love of the country, the honor of the country, the self-standing of the country, and the freedom of the country, that the house is ready to give up its last drop of blood: it is common to all of us. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thirty years have passed. For today's debates in Parliament, another Kossuth quote is more appropriate, which I have already suggested to them in connection with the Emergency Act:.... that the politics of the Parliament should be raised to that height, and that time will set it before us. Raise our policy to the level of the circumstances... Dear House, Anyone who has heard a brief, but far from complete, summary, is entitled to ask the question: has everything we have created in those years endured the test of time? With a calm heart, I say yes. Hungary is an independent, democratic rule of law, a free country. A country where it is now natural for us to express our opinions freely, to gather freely, to travel. We're free to go. We're free to elect congressmen, mayors. We are free to create professional, representative and political organisations. We are free to participate in the work of various international organisations. Freedom, however, is fragile; as Ronald Reagan said, every generation must constantly fight and defend for it. Dear Parliament, In recent weeks, we have had to experience that our freedom has not only political or legal limitations. Today, it is not an external force, but an invisible virus that hinders us from enjoying our 30 years of freedom. Fear, uncertainty, concern for the future and for our loved ones fills our daily lives and hope. The hope of unity, helpfulness, sacrifice, and responsibility for one another has been given by new, sometimes touching, and at other times instructive examples. In recent weeks, the epidemic has not only warned us of our fragility, but it has also shown the power of social cooperation. The plague will come to an end, and our lives will return to normal. For this to happen as quickly as possible, national cooperation is required. We use everything we have achieved in the last thirty years and all that we have experienced in recent weeks as a resource to solve the challenges that we need to do so that we can soon enjoy the usual freedom again. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. János Volner applauds. Dr. János Áder returns to the box of honor and takes a seat.]]
u2020-05-02-2	Dear Parliament, I thank President János Áder for his words. Dear House, P/10189 on the re-upping of the Hungarian People's Representation System thirty years ago. Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the text of the political statement.
u2020-05-02-3	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Parliament's political statement on the restoration of Hungary's popular representation system thirty years ago. The Parliament honours the formation of the first freely elected representative of the people following the loss of the state self-determination of the country on March 19, 1944, on May 2, 1990, which is the beginning of the new democracy and constitutional order of our country according to our Fundamental Law. [[11.30]] The free parliamentary assembly was created by the democratically declared will of Hungarian citizens deprived of this right for decades. Members of the Parliament will bow down to all Hungarians whose loyalty, desire for freedom, courage and sacrifice were essential to enable the Hungarian people to take their fate back into their own hands once the change in the external circumstances that caused the loss of the country's independence made it possible. With gratitude, we remember our compatriots fighting the National Socialist and Communist dictatorship and the Alien occupation and taking on martyrdom, the persistent representatives of the 1945 and 1947 National Assembly, the heroes of our 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, the preparatory and starters of the process of change of regime towards nation and democracy, as well as those who contributed to the survival of the country by their daily work, efforts, talents and diligence, raising their children. We are pleased to think of the deceased members of the first freely elected parliamentary assembly, and with respect to all our fellow Members who worked in the first democratic parliament of the change of regime and after the end of their mandate, returning to civil life for the rise of Hungary. The restoration of a country that had been devastated, impoverished, heavily taxed and spiritually crippled by the Communists for more than four decades has put the members of the new legislation at a historic challenge. The short-term structure of the democratic and rule-of-law arrangement, the establishment of a legal framework for the market economy, the transformation of the country's international relations system, the return of responsibility for Hungarian communities stranded outside the borders of the country to national politics is accepted as an act of relevance to the organisation of the state in St. Stephen, and we commend it. At the same time, in the face of the difficulties posed by the external and internal historical situation, the decisions taken to continue the regime change have failed to stop the disillusionment affecting a significant part of society and the renewed domination efforts of the groups that had previously maintained the communist dictatorship. This post-communism era, which repeatedly recalls the risk of the country slipping back into external dependence, was closed by the entry into force of the new Fundamental Law on 1 January 2012. We, the members of the Parliament serving its mandate, count the country-building work of the people's representation, established thirty years ago, among the outstanding achievements of our history, and we are once again committed to the values that give us the purpose and meaning of the system change in favour of freedom, constitutionality and national self-determination. We believe that only the explicit mandate of the community through democratic will can guide the functioning of the state. We believe that only a nation of self - worth is capable of free will. We believe that only a strong state based on its traditions, which can be renewed, is capable of ensuring the external and internal conditions of this freedom. In the words of István Széchenyi, only Hungary, which revolves around its own axis, can avoid sinking into a colonial line again, and only such a Hungary can become an equal ally in any cooperation. We, the members of the Parliament serving its mandate, see the second May 1990 as the first day of our reclaimed freedom, which was given the freedom to make Hungary great again by successive generations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2020-05-02-4	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time to take a decision on the political declaration that we have just presented. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the need for more than half of the Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this political declaration. So I ask this House to accept the P/10189. The text of Policy Declaration No 1 has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the political declaration by 126 votes in favour, 1 vote against and no abstention. Dear Parliament, Please join us in singing our National Anthem as the closing of our holiday program. [[The people in the room will stand up and sing the Anthem together. The people in this room will take their seats.]] Dear House, We've reached the end of our holiday session today. I am now ordering a five-minute technical break, and then we will continue our session with speeches after the agenda. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]] (Sunning: 11.37 11.42 President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: László Földi and Dr. Lajos Szűcs)
u2020-05-02-5	[[Congressmen are leaving the room, more people talking standing up.]] Dear Parliament, On the screen, four pre-notified speakers are waiting to express their thoughts. With all due respect, fellow Members... have a nice day out there. [[It's ringing.]] This snapshot is typical of changing the system: we were few, but there were many of us, and now there were many of us, and there were few of us. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Because they don't care about...]] Dear Parliament, Post-meeting speeches will follow. István Simicskó, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, applied for a post-meeting speech on the Union of Ungvár. I give the floor to Congressman Simicskó in a five-minute time frame.
u2020-05-02-6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We saw very touching and beautiful festive moments, but in 1646, something similar, even if not a very important church decision was made, since around this time the Pravoslavic priests gathered in the chapel of the castle of Hungvár to decide whether to acknowledge the authority, primacy of the Roman pope, or to remain a pravoslavic priest in their diocese, in the region in which they served. This decision was made, which is why I asked for a word and an opportunity to remember this historical period, because it is very important; not only because I myself am a Greek Catholic believer and believer, but also because I believe that through church history Greek Catholicism and its living Hungarianism and Rutheny, this Eastern Church of nearly 300,000 believers serves very seriously, enriches and enriches Hungarian culture, the Western Church as well. Allow a brief historical reflection, for history is the master of life, we can learn a lot from it, and it is also part of the history of mankind's church history, since all civilizations were created on some kind of religious pedestal. During the migrations of the Hungarians, he first met the Byzantine ritual Christian, and some of his classics became Christians in Byzantium in the X. century. We all know that, but it is very important that we not forget these historical facts. After the conquest, obviously after entering and settling in the Carpathian Basin, in 953, the Patriarch of Constantinople sent a converting bishop to the Carpathian Basin in the person of St. Hyerotheus, who began his conversion work, and in fact, during the time of King St. Stephen there were several metropolitans in the territory of the then Hungarian kingdom of Hungary. We know, of course, that after the great skismism of 1054 and the great distemper of the church, this dwindled in Hungary, and the western-type Roman rite was accepted, but even the Byzantine rite was included in the Hungarian church history. Dear Parliament, It can be documented that in 1365, with the permission of King Lajos the Great, Prince Todor Koryatovich brought in Slavic native Ruthenians to Transcarpathia, where Slavs and Eastern Christians had lived before. The Prince founded the Orthodox Saint Nicholas Monastery on Mount Chernek in Munkács. The Ungvári Union was supported by Count János Homonnai Drugeth, the Archbishop of Zemplén County, a later magistrate, and his son György Homonnai, who was the commander of Upper Hungary, invited together with his mother the monk Péter Parthén, the chief of the Munkács monastery, and the bazilita monk Gábor Kosovics from Poland. They convinced the Pravoslavic priests in Upper Hungary to support the union with the Holy See, and this was effective at the end of April 1646. Of course, from a theological point of view, the Council of Florence made it easier to achieve the EU's objectives, which in 1439 took a serious decision to accept and support the Greek rite, if the Holy Father is considered to be the head of the whole church. Obviously, in 1646, very important decisions were made, since they could keep the rights that Roman Catholic priests could keep, and those privileges were also granted to Greek Catholic clergymen and priests. Transcarpathia's Ruthenian and Hungarian-speaking, Byzantine rites joined forces with the Ungvár Union with Rome, so they experienced historical moments at the time, and this is obviously why we remember this today as well. Maria Theresa founded the Greek Catholic Diocese of Munkácsi for them in 1771 and on May 6, 1912, as we are about to be here, the Diocese of Hajdúdorog was founded by Pope Pius X, which was definitely a historical period of both Rutheny and Greek Catholicism. In Transcarpathia there was no Ruthenian nobility, their church alone, their priests were the only ones who represented escape and opportunity for life, they represented this poor people, so his only refuge and hope was his church, the liturgy of the Ruthenian and Hungarians living there, and related customs and attitudes. There is such a saying that every Ruthenian is Greek Catholic, but not all Greek Catholic Ruthenians; it does not fully stand up to the truth, of course, but it expresses many things. I would just like to draw attention to [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that survival and strengthening are also the aims of Greek Catholicism. I trust that the constructive creative work that has begun, and obviously the reconciliation process of the two churches, the two Christian churches, will be further strengthened in the coming period, we need this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-02-7	Thank you very much, Congressman Simicskó. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP group:. The change of regime has been announced for 30 years. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[11.50]]
u2020-05-02-8	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Today is the 30th anniversary of the formation of the first freely elected Parliament after the change of regime. This was a very important act, a very important event in the breakdown of dictatorship, because indeed a dictatorship ended in the process of the regime change, to which President-in-Office of the Republic referred in his speech. We believe that the significance of this anniversary must in no way be relativised, in no way underestimated. Freedom, sovereignty and democracy are values that must be celebrated and remembered. It is very important that we respectfully remember all those who have acted to make this change happen, so that national self-determination can be achieved. It would have been very good if, today, in Parliament, the pro-government representatives, as drafters, had intended to do so by means of a document, a political declaration expressing the problems of society today, pointing out that there were a lot of legitimate and hard disappointments for Hungarian people after the change of regime, and that we could have expressed together the values, the ideas that we all express, and thus could have shown a kind of national unity. That didn't happen. At the same time, we must celebrate a very important event. I would like to highlight some of the achievements of the last 30 years, so to speak. I think it is very important that it has been able to achieve, that responsibility for Hungarians living beyond the borders can be realised, both in legislation and in actions. It is very important that this issue in the future, however, is unfortunately not yet a real national minimum. I am very confident that this will happen. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. It can be seen that on this issue, whether it be government forces or some opposition parties, at times it is in the interest of their political interests, but at the same time it is extremely important that our fate is common, so I am very, very confident that, in the next period, as is the case, one of our most important tasks should be a national policy, a national minimum that can never be the object and purpose of an actual policy or political gain. It is also very important to talk about, and this political statement is also about whether the period of post-communism has ended, how it ended. And there is an important reference in this political statement that the restoration of the country, which has been destroyed, impoverished, heavily indebted, debt-ridden and spiritually crippled by the Communists over the last four decades has put the members of the new legislation into a historic challenge; that is perfectly true. Unfortunately, the problem is, and we must say that it is a serious failure of the parliamentary majority of the last three decades that it has not actually completed the regime change by not ensuring the discovery of the state security past. So to this day, we do not know how the former maintainers of the dictatorship connected the regime change parties and how they influenced the process of the regime change. And it is very important to say that it was not just about the past, but then decisions were made, and processes have started to determine our lives, whether social or economic, to date. We believe that the violation or serious violation of the victims' memory is that in the last three decades there has not been a brave majority in Parliament that would have done so and would have ensured public disclosure. It is important to know that the LMP faction has submitted its proposal to Parliament on 20 occasions from 2011 to explore the past of state security, which has been rejected every time without a substantive debate by the once post-communist and dominant majority of governments. And yet there is one very, very important thing to talk about, and I would like to conclude with this: our acquired national sovereignty is still facing very serious challenges and very serious threats. We can see, even as a result of the policy of the last ten years, that many, hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to leave this country, and one in six Hungarian children are now born abroad. But we can see that, quite often, when decisions are made, it is true that high-power interests take precedence over national interests. And if we ask, because we have to ask the question that Hungary now has a government that consistently and uncompromisingly represents Hungarian national interests, then we have to say that there is no. And together with this, and we all need to know that we can remember our ancestors in a worthy manner if we are always guided by the service of Hungarian national interest not only in our words, but also in our actions. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-02-9	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-02-10	Mr President, Dear House, 30 years after the apparent fall of communism, representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP celebrate because they feel they should celebrate. I'm always looking for the point that we can agree on or that we can catch together. Yes, the real Hungarian warriors who have contributed to the dismantling of a dictatorship and helped to achieve an opportunity; an opportunity that leads to a truly free, democratic nation state, and I would like to remember today how this opportunity has been betrayed by the governments of the last 30 years. Of course, we can do nuance differences in coloring and attitude, but I have to accuse you of the last 30 years. I blame the governments of the last 30 years for spontaneous privatisation, for beating hundreds of thousands of our entire production sectors, jobs, playing into the hands of foreigners without any control, and, as Zoltán Balczó, my excellent fellow Member, noted, indeed, the knights of the previous system and foreign investors were lining up, and they received an unjustified discount from the Hungarian governments, the Hungarian governments. I accuse the governments of the last 30 years of the Trianon 100th anniversary, not only for the Ukrainian-Hungarian basic contract and for further self-sacrifice, compromise, kneeling acts, but also for the fact that in the meantime all successor states have fallen apart and carried the possibilities on the assembly line of history to combat autonomy and self-determination for our Hungarian brothers living in broken parts. Where are we today compared to this? The Fidesz-KDNP in the international arena hardly dares to pronounce the word autonomy, and we are currently pressing for the success of a million-dollar collection of signatures, but I cannot find the call for this on the social side of all Hungarian MEPs. I accuse the last 30 years, the governments of the last 30 years, for an incredibly self-destructive, organic contract concluded with the Union, the negotiation of which was carried out by Fidesz in respect of some of the chapters, and for another part by MSZP. This is where Fidesz and MSZP potentáds took turns to make up 25 percent of the agricultural subsidies for Hungary, where they put the land in the free flow of capital chapter, and, well, here we can see that, shoulder to shoulder, these governments fought against each other in self-destruction. I accuse them of 5 December 2004, when the MSZP and SZDSZ conducted an incredibly demagogic campaign against our Hungarian brothers, and Fidesz carried out a cowardly campaign, essentially without a stand-off, the result of which was an ineffectual referendum that struck an amazingly deep wound among our Hungarian brothers. I could accuse the governments of the last 30 years for a lot of things, but let's focus on the last ten years. I accuse the governments of Hungary of finding the lowest in Hungary by examining the standard of living for the Visegrád countries. I accuse them of what the Prime Minister confirmed at a conference in Saudi Arabia, by attracting the working capital, according to which the Labour Code is sufficiently flexible and the Hungarian wages are sufficiently low. I'm accusing them of this attitude, because that's no way to build a nation state. I'm accusing them of serving multinationals amazingly. I have been critical of this behaviour under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, because I claim that these multi-enterprises have been unduly pampered in a self-destructive way, which is almost economical, but I would like to say that the Orbán governments that have been regressing since 2010 have gone beyond this disastrous thing and are making amazing discounts on companies who consider our country to be a market, a hunting ground, but essentially nothing more. I accuse these governments of the calvary of foreign exchange credentials, the evictions above ten thousand, for leaving the masses of people on the side of the road, essentially doing nothing for them, giving up all social groups, in a pure neoliberal way. And, well, most of all, I accuse the 30-year-old governments of the demography that caused a situation in the face of all kinds of government lies that our eclipse could only be slowed down or stopped later in a miraculous manner. I still hope that's the case. But I have no reason to celebrate. In the weeks when thousands of people are unwarrantedly sent home from hospitals, and many of them lose their lives because this government has a plan in its onionous nightmares, it takes it through the lawnmower principle, without consulting the ordinary Hungarian people, and it does so in all areas of life, and we all come before the judgment of history. I'd be ashamed of myself in front of the courthouse of history if I were to celebrate anything on this day. Thank you for the opportunity. [[12.00]]
u2020-05-02-11	Thank you, Congressman. Member Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "It was not ours, but your 30 years." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-02-12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. 2257 sitting days, six Presidents of the Republic, seven Prime Ministers, eight Speakers, that's 30 years of production. On 2 May 1990 it was a Wednesday, when the new democratic Parliament was formed, and Sándor Oster told Sándor Petőfi's poem entitled The Parliament. At the time, I thought you'd understand. On that day, today we have no reason to celebrate this anniversary, because the last thirty years have been a huge failure for Hungarian society. We have reason to remember, not to celebrate. That's why we didn't attend the holiday session. In his speech, János Áder remembered the witnesses who spoke at that meeting on 2 May and reminded us of our history. I'm sorry you didn't exactly quote me. Béla Varga said that if we can make good use of the opportunities, this path must lead us to the complete construction of a prosperous, free, democratic Hungary, in which the will of the people prevails. What are we looking at today? Neobolshevist power, neoliberal economic policy and fundamentalist social policy. This is what is tearing apart our Hungarian people. Thirty years result in robbery privatisation, a lack of equal treatment and corruption-based governance. Then the following words are:. The division of merit is the task of the people, and it is a matter of time. It's too soon. Responsible politicians should not suffer memory loss. It was recommended to the offspring. What are we seeing today? It is now government self-image, narcissism, self-gratitude, and this is the main instrument of the stupidization of the people. Then the witnesses continued on 2 May:. Let's also think that the merit is not only ours, because fortunate external and international changes have greatly helped to bring the Hungarian intentions to fruition. I pay tribute to the leader of the great Russian Empire, who has closed the relationship between the small Hungarian people and their people and the saddest chapters of it, in line with the great statesman. Indeed, if there is no Mikhail Gorbachev and the many politicians who helped us in this regard, then the seven politicians we have seen today, who have been a Member of Parliament for 30 years, cannot enjoy the fruits of everything. Then the witnesses went on to say: "Sounded and thoughtful people desire peace, understanding, and legal order. Let us, therefore, take stock of national building, debate and work for political and economic democracy, in which both the working man and the entrepreneur, the intellectuals and the peasants will be given civic dignity, fearless security of life and prosperity. Replace disunity, demagogy and petty dissent with the full effect of the code of ethics of national interests. What was compared to that in the thirty years? Until 2001, relatively real development and effort to make it work, but since then, our country's people have been sliding down the slopes as a result of the terrible polarization and the loss of the truth. I repeat: the truth has been lost to the I.A. Then the witnesses continued: in our history, the lack of Hungarian unity and the civil war in the soul contributed to our great national tragedies. Individual desires, political ambitions, worldview class struggles or racial hostility are not the only dangerous harm to the spiritual unity of the people. The fact that we are now alone and we will be responsible for our mistakes must be deeply infuriated by the Hungarian consciousness. Is there any change in that today? Everyone is to blame, except the Hungarian government. Then they went on to say: "Hungarian is valuable not in his blood, but in his soul and spirit. And what have we learned this week? Anyone who disagrees with the Fides is not part of the nation. Then Kálmán Kéri went on to say: "If you, fellow Members, do not create a situation in which Hungarian mothers consider it worthy, and even their duty to give birth, we will always be in a worse and worse situation here, among the Carpathians. Where did we go? Hungarian mothers don't give birth for money anymore. And then Red Vince, former notary of the Temporary National Assembly, finished his thoughts on May 2, 1990. He said, "I quote Endre Ady: "Now it's time for a dario of minute-man-blues, / But we're ready to build our stone, / We're ready to make a big one yet it's our turn. / Big and beautiful, human and Hungarian. Then he closed his ranks with it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And today, I close my lines and my words by saying that it is still the Pharido of minute blues. Thank you for your attention. [[Z. Karpat is applauding Daniel and Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt.]]
u2020-05-02-13	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session will take place on 4 May 2020. Thank you for your work, good day, good afternoon. The meeting's closed.
