u2020-02-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I welcome you all with love. The third day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and notary György Lukács will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and all those who are monitoring our meeting today. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Twenty years ago, in 2000, the National Assembly declared 25 February as a memorial day for the victims of communist dictatorships. In 1947, the Soviet authorities arrested and illegally dragged Béla Kovács, Secretary General of the Independent Small Farmers' Party, who had to spend long years in Soviet captivity. Finally, he could only return home in 1955, in a state of serious health. Last year we remembered the 60th anniversary of his death. This year we are also celebrating the 30th anniversary of the change of regime, which permanently closed the history of communism in Hungary. In 1990, on the last day before the elections, the Parliament adopted several gesture laws that recognised and sought to eliminate the crimes and errors of the communist regime. At that time, the laws on the annulment of the judgments against the law between 1945 and 1963 and the abolition of decisions that deprived Hungarian citizenship were adopted, and the following were adopted: the parliamentary decisions taken to remedy the violations of Hungarian citizens who had been deported to the Soviet Union for work of reparation and who had been sentenced by the courts of the Soviet Union and who had been rehabilitated in the absence of a criminal offence, to remedy the collective grievances of the German minority in Hungary and to compensate those who had been unduly restricted in their personal freedom between 1945 and 1963. After that, the freely elected parliamentary assembly also established a number of laws on the law-breakers of the Communist dictatorship, thus fulfilling its historic task of re-establishing the foundations of a just and democratic rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, It is natural that on this Memorial Day our own stories and memories will be revealed in the first place. There is almost no family in Hungary that has not experienced the ruthless power of the communist dictatorship in any way: our parents, grandparents can tell us about nationalizations, expropriations, labour camps, violent activity, attic sweeps, missing, then ill, beaten, crushed relatives, friends, jobs lost because of origin, rejected university records, forced silence, internal exile, penalties for one wrong sentence, total vulnerability, falsely shining and lying system in all its elements. Remember, on this day we mourn all the victims of all the communist dictatorships in the world. Unfortunately, countries, peoples and nationalities around the world, including Hungarians across the border, who suffered from oppression, terror and disenfranchism, to a greater extent than we do. However, our task is not merely to remember and remind, but also to build and secure a free world that excludes the possibility of a return of terror. With all due respect, I ask our honourable fellow Members to stand up for a moment and remember the victims of communism. [[The people in this room remember the victims with a silent setup.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches before the agenda. Mr Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked to speak before the agenda on topical matters. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This year, the national programme budget for electronic information services no longer provides Hungary's largest and constantly expanding digital periodicity database, the funding of the Arcanum Digital Science Archive. From March onwards, this can only be used for a separate subscription by those who wish to. In the past, between 2016 and 2019, this programme has enjoyed a central support of 100%. According to statistics, this scientific repository has been used by many, 266 thousand university students, 18 thousand higher education educators and researchers, 8 thousand research institute staff, museologist, 5 thousand doctors, hospital staff, 325 thousand public libraries, 10 thousand archival users and 5 thousand cross-border users. In 2018, about HUF 2 billion was allocated to this programme from the central budget. Yes, dear fellow Members, let us note that we are talking about budget support of only HUF 2 billion, while the government is spending HUF 150 billion on propaganda, but it does not have HUF 2 billion to help students, university students, university teachers, teachers and assistant professors with even thinner money to do their job, so that they can have access to this very important information free of charge. My question is, what's next? Maybe they'll turn off the Internet from the international network, and then they'll only have a central license to access these articles? Or will it only be possible to get xerox copies of these articles, of these studies, by renting them in the library? We older people have experienced this; I report it didn't work, it didn't work. Dear fellow Members, In particular, my fellow Members on the government side, the few who came to Parliament this morning, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government is not seeing the situation properly, is very misappreciating and judging the role of scientific research and innovation. They believe that it is enough to put some people with outstanding abilities in a special position and to support the competitiveness of some research programmes. It can't be solved. Competitiveness is a very complex thing, the main and decisive element of which is that there is an adequate education and research system in the country, that there is a powerful middle class capable of producing products from these innovations and these novel solutions that can be placed on the market in large quantities and from which exports can be made. Unfortunately, as long as this is missing, there will be no breakthrough, so Hungarian exports will be as small and focussed on raw materials and raw materials as is the case right now. [[9.10]] Obviously, it does not contribute to the abolition of this programme or to the refusal to finance it in order to really enter the path of competitiveness. I see the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation is here. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you, does the wallet really not have 2 billion forints to fund this? After all, in recent times it has been heard that this has become the government's favourite ministry, the so-called superministery, because it will receive multiples in the budget period 2021-22, support as it has received so far, and innovation also belongs to them. So, do they really not have 2 billion forints, or do they not consider this topic so important to sacrifice 2 billion forints? Please, Mr. Secretary, please respond to this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-02-25-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member also intended this speech before the agenda to Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary Tamás Schanda, who replied to his request. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that what you have said does not cover the reality, as the National Research, Development and Innovation Office supports the national electronic information programme by HUF 1.95 billion, i.e. nearly HUF 2 billion, as in previous years, in order to have access to the various databases, the various information, properly and free of charge. However, the use of this resource is decided by the programme council, which is completely independent of the government, the Ministry of Innovation or the NRDIH. Their decision is to use this HUF 1.95 billion exactly how it will happen. This includes only scientific and professional organisations with voting rights. Neither the government nor the central office has the right to vote and to vote on this issue, and state actors may participate only with the right of consultation at the meeting of the programme council. So I have to say that your call is an open door, based only on a complete cover-up, because the Ministry provides the necessary resources with the involvement of the background institution, as you have provided so far, and continues to provide it. It also respects its independence to the Academy and to scientific organisations. At the same time, on the issue behind the Member's speech, that it is in fact necessary to help the Hungarian R &amp; D institution by all means and those actors who can contribute to making the Hungarian economy more competitive and to achieving high-tech developments with higher added value on a scientific basis, I can say that we agree, and that is why it is sad that, for example, you have not voted in favour of the measures needed to create a better functioning scientific institution in Hungary. That's the conversion, too. [[Noise from the dialogue. Bence of Turdai: Joke!]] This was also done by the transformation that created the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, the transformation that created the National Science Policy Council to strengthen the independence of the institutions, to strengthen the opportunities that we have available to carry out more and better research, to achieve more and better results not only in scientific life, but also in terms of economic utilisation. The fact is, honourable Member, that the Hungarian Government is committed and increases the resources available to carry out research and development and innovation to an unprecedented extent. In 2020 alone, it increased the resources available for R &amp; D by 25 percent. This means plus 30, more than 30 billion forints, 32 billion forints, and we would like to encourage research institutes, partly economic operators, the whole world of science, higher education institutions, to carry out more and better quality research, thus helping the Hungarian economy to grow further. Our aim is to achieve 1.8 percent of GDP by the end of 2020 in total R &amp; D expenditure. We see that this can be achieved by our own actions, and this remains a realistic and comprehensible objective. This is what making higher education institutions more competitive is about, the changes that contribute to enabling higher education institutions to work together with the research institution network and partly with economic operators, to meet the needs of the economy, and the economic development that strengthens the Hungarian economy comes out of the knowledge generated by the higher education institution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group of the LMP Group, applied for a speech before the agenda entitled Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-02-25-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In fact, in my speech before the agenda, I would like to continue and add some important points to the commemorative thoughts. On February 25, 1947, Béla Kovács, former Secretary General of the Kisgazda Party, a politician born in Patach, was taken away by the Soviet authorities because of the opposition to the Communists and held in captivity for a long time. All this has been done perfectly illegally, violating all existing rules, and they have justified this shameful step by fabricated accusations. This was, in fact, such a symbolic step, a real initial step in the process of the Communists actually building up their totalitarian dictatorship, which lasted fifty years in Hungary. We know that we have heard of this in the initial thinking that this sick idea, Communism, has been estimated to have cost 100 million victims worldwide, but it must also be said that in Central Europe the number of victims is set at one million. The number of people who have lost their lives because of the functioning of the communist regimes is set at one million, but we must also include those who have been humiliated, restricted in their freedom, discriminated against or otherwise adversely affected by this regime. Indeed, twenty years ago, in 2000, the Parliament adopted a proposal for a resolution which marked the day of the removal of Béla Kovács as a memorial day for the victims of communism, and then we commemorate the victims on this day. I will do the same here in the name of the LMP faction, and as a patachi politician, as a member of the Parliament of Patach, I will do the same at Béla Kovács's birthplace, as I will do every year, of course. Well, my fellow Members, it has been 20 years since this memorial day was quite rightly put before the Parliament and the Parliament voted on it, but the real commemoration has been cancelled to this day. I think that we can agree on this, my fellow Members, and that must also be said today. The commemoration was canceled, since to this day Hungarian society cannot know how this repressive system worked. To this day, society must not know how the dictatorship's maintainers have brought in the change of regime parties. We do not know exactly who the former agents of the system maintainer were in the first freely elected Parliament. We do not know how certain actors have influenced the process of the change of regime and how their former political power has been transformed into economic power, and how they have generated the processes that have continued to date. We don't know who they were since the change of regime, who took positions in public power once being informants, agents, supporters of the system. So the face that was needed has been left behind because since the change of regime, all the parliamentary majority have been cowards. He was a coward to the successor party, which today, in fact, in these years, stood by the public in words, but when he had the political power to do so and could have done so, he did not make that decision. But he was a coward, my fellow Members, the Fidesz-KDNP system, that you once defined yourself as an anti-communist, but even after ten years of government, you were cowards in order to create the discovery of the past of state security in accordance with your own promises. [[9.20]] We know precisely that since you made very clear promises around 2009 and then failed to act, in 2011 András Schiffer, the then leader of the LMP group, presented to the Parliament a proposal aimed at creating the public. This has been swept off without a substantive debate, amendment proposals or an alternative proposal by you. After that, they did the same thing many, many more times. In each symbolic case, every symbolic memorial day, the LMP's faction will submit this proposal over and over again, but you have not acted in such a way as to participate in this debate, and for your part, if you had any criticism, you would have made an alternative proposal and ensured that there would have been an activism, even 30 years after the change of regime. What I can say, ladies and gentlemen, is that today, thirty years after the change of regime, twenty years after the adoption of the said Memorial Day and ten years after the re-establishing of the system of national cooperation, we presented our bill on public disclosure for the 21st time this morning. We have done this, ladies and gentlemen, because we regard this as a moral duty, and on the other hand we believe that until we can do so, until the Hungarian society can face the past of the agent, the change of regime cannot be regarded as closed. Respect for the victims and respect for the heroes who bravely defied communism. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, If I may, on the occasion of the Memorial Day of the victims of communism, I would quote the provisions of the Fundamental Law here in the walls of this House. Through the first free elections in 1990, state settlements based on the rule of law and the pre-communist dictatorship are incompatible with each other. All those involved in the operation of this incompatible system are responsible for the maintenance, management, violations committed, in fact for the betrayal of the nation, the elimination of its democratic attempt based on the multi-party system of years after the Second World War, the exclusive exercise of power, the elimination of the economic order based on the freedom of property, the conversion of Hungary's economy, defence, diplomacy, human resources into foreign power, the systematic destruction of the values of the European civilisation tradition, imprisonment, forced labour camp, persecution, torture, inhumane treatment, the drowning of the 1956 revolution, the subsequent reign of terror and retribution, and for all the crimes committed by public law, which were committed by political action and were not persecuted by political action. In this regard, I think we can agree here between the walls of Parliament. If we read further the provisions of the Fundamental Law, we see that because of these crimes and violations we have a constitutional responsibility to reveal the functioning of the Communist dictatorship in a realistic way and try to restore the sense of justice of society. In this context, the National Remembrance Committee was established after 2010 under the Fundamental Law, which is specifically responsible for publishing the activities, roles, results of the persons and organisations possessing communist power in a comprehensive report and in various documents. Moreover, on the basis of the Fundamental Law, which the parliamentary majority behind this government has adopted are obliged to tolerate statements of fact on their person, the pension or other benefit they grant on the basis of this position has been reduced to a specified extent on the basis of this Fundamental Law, and this Fundamental Law, which was adopted by this parliamentary majority, has stated that crimes which were not persecuted for political reasons by disregarding the criminal code in force at the time of the offence cannot be considered obsolete. I would like to recommend one more point from Article U to your attention, Mr President. The Fundamental Law adopted by this parliamentary majority also provides that all documents of pro-state or of the communist dictatorship are the property of the State and must be placed in public archives in the same way as those belonging to the archives of bodies performing public tasks. So it is precisely the political community that has provided the basic terms of law that these documents, which you have referred to, should be placed in the Historical Archives of the State Security Services in a searchable manner, where everyone can obtain the data relating to himself or, if his relatives no longer live, the data relating to them, and without such restriction, everyone who wishes to access them for scientific research purposes can do so without limitation, in the same way as other archives. In addition, there is also a legislative amendment that can be linked to the parliamentary majority behind this government, and this is the case of so-called magnetic tapes, which, as a consequence of the amendment of the law, have also been transferred from the Constitutional Protection Office to the Historical Archives, thus helping the work of the research there. So I think the idea that you have made is political hystericalism, which has no real basis. And in your speech, you said how the dictatorship saved its power, how they influenced the regime change, how the democratic opposition was entangled. Dear Member, ask your fellow Members, ask their allies, they are sitting next to you. Unfortunately, they are aware of all the answers, and they should be asked, and not just the victims should be remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-8	Dear Parliament, Mr Bősz Anett, from the DK Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on an increasingly pressing problem. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-25-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here in this House, perhaps because it requires strictly professional solutions, and it is very difficult for it to be the subject of political battles, there is little mention of the transport of the capital and its surroundings. However, this is an increasingly pressing problem, which would immediately oblige us and the profession to start looking for solutions. However, people living in the capital can't forget this problem, because they face daily delays on the motorway, the scarcity of P+R parking lots, and the fact that they can't fit into the zoned trains if they're running at all, because there's a lot of cancellations, and there's a lot of delays in these people. It is a world trend that by 2050 half of the population will live in the capitals and their surroundings. Our country is no exception to this, so it is very important to be able to start looking for a solution in time, because a society that is not prepared in time for the challenges of the future simply misses international partners and will not be able to jump on new challenges and find the right answers in transport management or economy. I have already mentioned that this challenge requires strictly professional solutions, and unless we find a central political intention, it is very difficult to resolve this issue. The problem cannot be solved with the current instruments, and we also need to be aware of that. An article in 1894 of the Times of London discussed that, if cart and horse traffic increases to this extent, the horse's car will be nine feet high on the streets of London by 1950, on each street. As we know, this did not happen, but it did not happen because they invented horses that eat less or used more street sweepers. Therefore, I say that the present challenges are not simply a quantitative solution or an increase in quantity. We need a new paradigm, we need a network and a system of thinking that can also address the lives and challenges of the capitals and the people living in the agglomeration. I could mention the problem of bled-out municipalities, which, in this way, barely have the means to negotiate either the compression of the Volan flights or the setting up of local flights and loading flights for their own citizens. It is clear that the roads to date cannot continue, and it is also clear that it is important that not only the local political leadership, but also the central political leadership, see that Volán, the railway and the Budapest Transport Centre should now be treated as a partner, sit at a table and find a solution together. [[9.30]] Of course, this does not mean that quantitative development can be saved. Network-based transport facilities should be provided for as many people as possible. In particular, attention should be paid to fixed-track public transport devices, which are not only able to carry large crowds of people to their workplaces, but also able to help us to protect the environment. It is rarely mentioned that the best P+R parking lot is the garden, simply because a very large crowd of people living in the agglomeration cannot even think of getting from the garden gate to their workplace or their children's school by means of public transport. It is very important that people who live there can trust these flights both qualitatively and quantitatively. It is very important that these flights arrive on time and are properly financed. We know that it does not happen from one moment to the next, let us say, in these instruments, a deterioration that cannot be dealt with, say, by local leadership or even by the Vola, is also the challenge we face in many regions of the country. If the municipalities of the cities of the agglomeration remain in need of resources, they will not be able to give meaningful answers, honourable Members, to this challenge. If the central political intention is not to solve the everyday problems of our fellow citizens living in the capital and in the agglomeration, we will face the fact that not only those living in the suburbs, but also those who stayed here in Budapest and are trying to organize their lives, every day, that we face a deterioration in the quality of life. I am very confident that there will be political will to do so, and I am also very confident that the government is open to organising the search for solutions on a strictly professional basis. Thank you.
u2020-02-25-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, has responded to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-25-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I believe that there is no debate between us as regards the starting point, and that the government is also aiming to improve the quality of life of people living in Budapest and agglomeration, if possible to increase the level of living in the city. That is why we are very proud that, in the period 2010-2018, when civil governance took place in this country and you acknowledged that the government and the municipalities should cooperate in the development of the settlements, Budapest moved from 55th to 34. We consider this to be a serious achievement. This is not a Hungarian survey, but a survey of the Economist research department. That is why I was shocked, and then I would appeal to the congresswoman to use her lobbying and questioning powers when Mayor Gergely Christmas visited the mayor of London and said that Budapest had a lot to learn from London in terms of viability. I checked the Economist rankings, and on this ranking, London is number 48. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] So the fact is that I think that we are not an example of a crime, of all the pressures of a multicultural society, or of London losing economic power because of the Brexit, and I think that the people of Budapest should stay on the same line, and that the city leadership should support the same line that we did between 2010 and 18. He mentioned to the municipalities how low and how low they were. In this regard, I can inform you if we are talking a little about history, that it was the pre-2010 period when the municipalities were bleeding out. At the time, the state and Parliament worked in such a way as to pass the tasks on to the municipalities at a legal level, but they took the funding opportunities away from them, and therefore the municipalities were involved, regardless of political affiliation, although there is no doubt that the left-wing liberal city councils were always ahead of the right-wing city, but virtually all settlements were forced to be indebted in order to maintain and survive the operation. We ended this blissful state in 2010, when we first consolidated the municipalities, and then we struck a balance with the system of task financing in terms of the tasks to be performed by the municipality and the revenues transferred from the centre, as well as the local government's own revenue. After that, all the settlements were on a development path, and in the case of Budapest there has been investments worth HUF 1850 billion in the past period, and at the moment there is 4400 billion HUF worth of investment, state and municipal investment, which is in progress. These investments have a decisive impact on the areas that the representative woman has referred to, improving the relationship between Budapest and the people living in the agglomeration, resolving the situation of commuting and improving public transport, in which she is indeed right, there is a professional consensus which is largely beyond the political side of such developments. Although it is also true that, in recent months, we have seen that the leadership of Budapest's capital, from behind the professional concepts and development plans that have been considered consensual, has withdrawn or is reluctant. We do not understand the reasons for this. I am thinking, for example, about the construction of the Galvani Bridge, and also about the development of the airport, as if there were some disagreements. I would also like to ask for the help of the congresswoman, because I believe that the profession should prevail here and not politics. Besides, I have good news about these developments, both in the field of rail transport, public transport and the development of agglomeration relations. The government is committed to furthering these developments. The news has just come to light recently that the design competition in the development of fixed-track transport, i.e. in the development of the HÉV, has been announced by the State Secretariat for Budapest and agglomeration, and, by the way, through the Council of Public Developments, we are planning further developments in cooperation with Budapest's capital. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for listening.
u2020-02-25-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zita Gurmai, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-25-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! European equal pay day is on 27 February. Ensuring equality between women and men is essential for the success of a country. If gender equality is achieved, then it is the society that really wins, because it allows everyone to live on a standard of living that they really work for. Equal pay would also boost the economy. It is estimated that a 1 per cent reduction in the gender pay gap would result in a 0.1 per cent increase in gross domestic product. As you know, women in Hungary earn on average two months less than men. This means that women will work both November and December for free this year. According to KSH's latest report published on 31 January 2020, between January and November 2019, gross earnings reached HUF 398 100 for full-time men and HUF 332 700 for women. It is also bad news that the rate of increase in earnings is also different, which represents an 11.7% increase in men and a 10,6 percent increase in women over a year. I hope we can agree that this isn't right. We need to change this situation as soon as possible. We must also eliminate the vulnerability of women in the labour market. In the world of work, women in wage bargaining positions are much worse than men, it is well known. Taking into account the work at home, overall, women's weekly working hours are more than men's. Women also have fewer leadership positions and less money. According to Eurostat data, they earn 23 percent less per hour than their male co-leaders. The European Parliament calls on Member States to take further action to reduce the gender pay gap. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, recently announced that he was working on a new European strategy for gender equality and rules on transparency of payments. [[9.40]] With regard to the situation in Hungary, I can't go without saying about the changes that have been made to the world of work in recent years. The Code of Work adopted by Fidesz and put into effect in 2012 has in many cases undermined the rights of workers acquired and weakened the ability of workers to assert their interests. As a result, the situation of women has become much worse since 2012. This is particularly true of wages. Women are more disadvantaged than men in the area of wage deals and wages. Why? Because they have to think about their families, their work at home, their raising children, or even their home care. They must strike the balance between family and career. This is not an easy task, especially if they are not helped to achieve their goals. Inequality affects not only salaries: if one has a lower income, there will be fewer pensions. In other words, women work more for less money than men to earn a lower pension as pensioners. That's not acceptable. We must continue to fight this, together with women and men, because only by working together and respecting each other can we achieve equal treatment in all areas of life, including in the world of work. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure equality between women and men, a parliamentary proposal for a resolution was submitted with the representatives of the MSZP faction at the title of the pay gap between women and men. With the adoption of the proposal submitted, Parliament obliges the Government to prepare a comprehensive concept to reduce the gender pay gap. If the government takes this task seriously, not only can differences between women and men be reduced, but also the health, education and social sector, which employs women in the majority of them, could finally receive special attention. I hope that my fellow members of the Government will also support this proposal in the appropriate forums, which will result in a joint step towards protecting women. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-02-25-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Speaking of memory days, you could have remembered with at least one sentence that there is a memorial day today, but we're used to it from the MSZP. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the one hand, it is obvious that ladies, women, mothers, mothers must always be treated with respect, and on the other hand, government measures must also aim at the same pay for the same work, the opportunity for a woman to open up a career, and therefore be entitled to the same remuneration as a man. At the same time, the voice of respect is important, and in this case I would ask you, too, that when Ferenc Gyurcsány comes in, if he is sitting next to you, knock on his shoulder and ask him that when he talked about having an old wife, an old wife, [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: But this is not the issue of wages!]] It would like to replace him with a younger one, and let's face it, he deserves what kind of respect it was for women. It would be important if there was such a high level of collusion, that they would move their politicians from MSZP to DK from week to week. [[Bence of Turdai: Get to the point.]] then this is exactly how Ferenc Gyurcsány thought it, and how it is in line with what you have said here at the level of words, and which, by the way, all good people agree with at the level of words. Please clear that up between us. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Answer, please.]] You can also see that this is a question like many others. You stand up for a lot of things at the word level. They also stand to reduce wage differences between men and women, only when they are on the government, they can't do anything about it. And when you get out of government, these indicators start to improve, not by themselves, but by conscious government measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When you governed Hungary in 2010, the pay gap between men and women was 17.6%, this fell to 14 percent under our governance, the fifth difference between men and women disappeared. So if we want to reduce the wage gap between men and women further, then Fidesz-KDNP governance is the key, honourable Member. Women's employment rate hasn't been as high as it is in 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When you were ruling in Hungary in 2010, the employment rate of women in Hungary was 54 percent, while the EU was 62. There was an 8 percent difference between EU and Hungarian levels. Now the Hungarian 66.8, the EU 67.4. It melted to one percent. So there was an 8 percent difference, now there is a 1 percent difference between the EU female employment rate and the Hungarian female employment rate. The difference between the employment levels of women in the EU and Hungary has decreased by about one eighth. This is due to a number of measures. On the one hand, it is also a stimulus to the economy, but also a number of other steps. If you look at the increase in employment among women with children under three years of age, you can also see an increase of 5 thousand or 13.5 thousand among mothers with three or more children. If you look at the level of employment of women with one child in 2010, that was 65 percent, now it's 72.3. The one raising two children was 64.8, and now it's 72.6. Employment levels have increased from 37.1 to 52.4 per cent for children with three or more children. And as I told you, the pay gap between men and women melted nicely. If you look at the executive positions, you said there's more men in leadership than women. You are right about that, because if you look at the EU level, about one third of the leaders are women, 34 percent in the EU. How much is this in Hungary? 39. We are better at this than the EU average, so many countries, the majority of EU countries, could take an example of Hungary in this respect, that Hungary has a higher proportion of women's leaders than the EU average, and we are better off than the European Union in terms of pay differences. In fact, we are even closer to a higher number by looking at how many men take part in caring for children and housework. In the EU, this is 68 percent, with us 70, so more men are taking part in child rearing and housework than in the EU. Please don't just whip the Hungarian people, but also admit their performance sometimes. On the other hand, when Parliament took measures for the benefit of women here, you, the Hungarian Socialist Party and the opposition parties did not support this. You did not support 40, which created opportunities for women to retire. You did not support the family protection action plan, which exactly reduces income differences by not having mothers with four children pay personal income tax for the rest of their lives, by increasing their net salary in Hungarian, and by further reducing the wage gap between men and women. Why do you not support these proposals to support women? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, How can we be worthy of the memory of the victims of the communist dictatorship? Mr Balczó Zoltán asked for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, In its resolution adopted on 13 June 2000, the Parliament decided to commemorate the victims of communism each year. In proclaiming its folk-happy ideology, communism was only a million victims here in Eastern Central Europe, so many of them lost their lives, and the millions of others who were physically, mentally crippled, or broke their careers to the waist. The Parliamentary resolution was made with the intention of and here I quote the justification for it - "The XXI. It is necessary to close the last 50 years of Hungarian history, which has been shadowed by communism. Well, this lockdown didn't work. Despite the fact that the Fundamental Law adopted in 2011, the criminality of serious crimes committed in the Communist dictatorship in the interests or with the agreement of the Party State cannot be considered obsolete. Today, the Kádár system is being talked about in such a way that, forgetting the reprisal after 56 the whole period has been set up for a Goulash Communist system, noticing how many people were sent to prison by the so-called soft dictatorship after 1963, they crippled and broke careers spiritually. And when I say that this closure has not happened to this day, I mean not only for the small number of criminal cases, but for the fact that the living victims of communism or the descendants of the victims have not received the moral satisfaction, most of the sinners could remain anonymous. [[9.50]] In Hungary, after the change of regime, there was no reassuring solution for getting to know party state documents, while in most of the socialist successor states this issue was resolved. And in 2010, the Fidesz government gained a two-thirds majority. There is still no way to get to know and publish the agent files fully. That way, we can't know who the people with the secret service record are in today's top positions, because we know that there are examples. A State Secretary of the Government after 2010 was found to have worked as an operational officer III/II before the change of regime. Moral retribution does not require revenge, but publicity: become known, face their actions, in the name of communism, criminals. Can he be forgiven? It is primarily a matter of personal choice, but yes, I think it is possible if the perpetrator of sins is genuinely repentant. But what's unacceptable is putting former agents, snitches, on pedestals. As it became known, on February 28, the Hungarian Film Academy Association with the support of the National Film Institute intends to reward István Szabó film director with a lifetime achievement prize. A lifetime achievement prize is not just about works, it's about the entire career of the prized. It is well known that István Szabó was an informant of the Kádár system, whose agent history was exposed by the Hungarian press 14 years ago in January 2006. During István Szabó's activities as an agent, he supported the retaliation of Kadár with a number of incriminating data, and he has not apologized to this day. At the 2006 film survey, Ferenc Gyurcsány, then Prime Minister, hugged him on stage and gave the audience a round of applause to István Szabó. There's a logic to that. In the communist youth organization, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who held a high position before the regime change, could even look up to István Szabó, who was more committed to the Kádár dictatorship than he was. But what doesn't make sense is that in today's system, the former agent can receive a lifetime achievement fee. [[Bence Tordai: Viktor Orbán...]] My answer to the question in the title of my speech is that we will be worthy of the memory of the victims of communism if agents, informants and their secret service files are known without selection, the sinners and their actions will be made public. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-02-25-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As you rightly said, in 2000, the Orbán government made this day a memorial day for the victims of communism, and indeed linked it to a parliamentary event, which also meant the crushing of national sovereignty, not just the entrance to the class struggle, which then crippled Hungarians in the coming decades, so to speak. However, we can look back further, as, unfortunately, the country became acquainted with the Red Terror itself, Communism, when President Návay was also executed as a victim of the Red Terror on behalf of the Parliament in 1919. So in this House, we have always had the opportunity to bow our heads to the victims' memories. And if we were talking about terror, if we were talking about communists, then we could think of the serial fires of 19, the terrors of the Lenin boys, the peasantry, the railroads, the intellectuals, the crimes of citizenship. But in the same way, we were also suffering from this period starting with the abduction of the Secretary General Béla Kovács, when we could then talk about the churches: the abduction of Cardinal Mindszenty, the suppression of Protestant bishops László Ravasz, Lajos Ordass, and the intimidation of these churches. But we can start with how they were first deprived of their property, their land, their house, their companies, how they were forced, not only of the prisoners of war, or of the forced labour, but also of the interns almost enslaved. Or we could think of the prisoners of Recsk, who also did their work there in the spirit of class struggle, and who often died of inhumane treatment. We can recall the prisons of the Rakosi era or even the Kádár era. It's very topical, because if we're talking about torture and inhumane treatment, I think that's the time when that's really possible. And they did it in the spirit of the red star, the red star we banned, which DK and their various idealists stood up to, and they were able to win a lawsuit in Strasbourg. They do not realize that in this region, where 100 million people were destroyed in total, together with China, the Soviet Union and other regions, the red star of tyranny and dictatorship is the same hateful symbol as the swastika. The man who was battled in a red star cap or had his fingernails torn off obviously rightly expects these authoritarian symbols to be banned. I am very surprised that Jobbik, who also defined himself in 2006 against the Gyurcsány government, is today his loyal ally, his henchman, and his bitch of this group. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you.]] and, in fact, for the sake of political gain, you are [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you. It's mean!]] those who join forces with the descendants of dictatorship [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Disgusting! Intruders, murmurs.]] and without principle [[The president's ringing the bell.]] support them because if there is a gap today [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Speaking in violation of the House's authority...]] in Hungarian society [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Mr. Secretary of State again, Mr. President.]] then it's the memory of the victims that separates the two sides. And anyone who doesn't understand that, and doesn't understand it, shouldn't refer to it. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman and Dr. János Fónagy intervene.]] That he salutes the victims, condemns the Red Terror. He told me about the agents. Unfortunately, you have a Béla Kovács, and you talk less about him, who, unfortunately, has an agent's business today. Another question is who he was spying on and why. I'm sure you'll prove to me sooner or later that he was a patriot, but you didn't account for that either. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] He mentioned István Szabó, who is being decorated by an association. Yesterday, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári mentioned a history teaching association, where they were about to delete the term "Endvár heroes," or to remove István Dobó from the age of heroes. There are forces like this. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You put the people there...]] These aren't government agencies, they're not state-of-the-art. What I can promise you is, as long as this government and this faction are in the majority, those who have an agency record won't get a state medal. [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches: Only Fidesz mayor... and III/II...]] But aside from today's debates, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you! Long live Rakosi!]] I can promise you that. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Long live the party! The president's ringing the bell.]] to remember together, and we're partners in that with everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you. It's the meanest!]]
u2020-02-25-20	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's give this day some respect. [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik benches, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: Yes, thank you. Secretary of State for Trashing... respect? Congratulations.]] Congressman, don't make me resort to house rules today, okay? ! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right, the House's authority is violated by the Secretary of State, Mr. President. Noise in the room.]] Honourable Parliament! - Respect for the victims of an inhuman ideology! Mr Soltész, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: There sits all the members of the MSZMP... Dr. János Fónagy: Adolfs of our time...]]
u2020-02-25-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XX The century was the most technologically advanced century in the history of mankind. Yet, or despite all this, it was characterized by the cruelest and most devastating decades. The madness of the two world wars, the meaningless death and suffering of millions, was enough to make irrefutable wounds in the nations, but human inhumanity took on a different face, since during or after the wars, two socialist ideologies, national socialism and international socialism, destroyed the lives of nearly half of humanity. [[10.00]] Today, we remember the victims of the latter, the inhuman, communist dictatorship of nearly 80 years, which did not know and respected neither man nor God, which persecuted, executed, imprisoned the believers, the leaders and priests of the churches, the dissidents, but in a perverse manner did the same to his own communist comrades, his leaders, the people who believed in this shameful ideology. The cynicism and the flood of lies of communism are unsurpassed, for they have proclaimed equality, but it has been achieved only in poverty, famine, and suffering. He proclaimed the uplifting of the working class and peasantry, but the former had the humiliation, the poorest life, and the latter had the attic sweeping, the gulag and forced action. Dear Parliament, The Communists here, in this region too, also observed the instructions of comrades in Moscow as a good henchman in our country, often overachieving to meet expectations, as a result of which many of our Jewish compatriots were dragged away, who, after the sufferings and horrors they had experienced before, had to endure new ones in Recskem, Kistarcsa or the cells of the ÁVH. The coercion destroyed and drove away the German families of our country, who were equally suffering the horrors of the Second World War, because of the crimes of Nazi Germany. But communist ideology has also started the persecution of NGOs and communities, which have abolished the multi-party system in the spirit of communist democracy. Communism has destroyed the economies of the countries, eliminated the private economies, eliminated the businesses of industrialists and craftsmen, which have led to immense poverty and poverty. Dear Parliament, Many families today remember the victims, the abused, the suffering. Fear has been slow over the last three decades, the wounds have been difficult to heal, and the Memorial Day often rips them up over and over again. Nevertheless, it must be remembered that this monstrous ideology should never be revived, lest it be restored to power. Therefore, it is worth remembering those who actively participated in cruelty, false judgments, and in the inhumane service of the system. If they ever apologized, if they finally admitted their sins, maybe their souls would be cleansed, too, XX. Without this terrible filth of the century, the Communists will never become a Democrat, except a power-hungry coalition. The one who tries to excuse communism, its ideology and symbolism with red stars, all together, but also those who are unworthy of mentioning communism, in the words of András Pongráz:. Those who blow a stone with the successor of the MSZMP, the MSZP, and the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány and other Balliberal formations will remember the blood steam killers of the ÁVH, but not the Hungarian heroes of 56. I've just quoted Pongráz from András. To conclude, Honourable Parliament, allow me one more quote. In December 1969, János Kádár said: "We must make everyone understand, especially young people, that the most beautiful human goal is socialism, communism. We have a duty, a duty, a responsibility to demonstrate and prove the opposite. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: A little more German abuse at the end!]]
u2020-02-25-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás State Secretary responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]]
u2020-02-25-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today's Memorial Day gives us the opportunity to remember with respect and dignity the people, the families who have already suffered completely unimaginable suffering for young generations today, the victims of physical violence, forced labour, cruel killings, deliberate famines, stigmatisation, financial inability and constant intimidation. The Communists everywhere, kicking off all social compromises, viewed the country as an experimental field. Scanning lying passwords, they didn't just want to wipe out the past, they wanted to wipe out life worthy of life for many people, and hundreds of millions of people were victims of mad human experiments all over the world. The accomplice and inhumanity of the Communists are well illustrated by the sentence attributed to Stalin:, One man's death is a tragedy, one million statistics. We see not only numbers on this day, but also a multitude of personal and family tragedies, because most of our families, the Hungarian families, have experience of the terrible acts of the Communists. Honourable Congressman, In fact, the Hungarian Parliament fulfilled its great debt to the victims of communism when, during the first Orbán government, it declared 25 February as a commemorative day for communist dictatorships, the anniversary of the abduction of Béla Kovács of Kishazda party in 1947. With this, Hungary was the first to devote a day in Central Europe to remembering the victims of communist dictatorships. It is not, of course, a coincidence that this was done in a civil majority parliament. We also need to talk about who did not vote for this parliamentary resolution at the time. Of course, the majority of the members of the successor party, the MSZP, and the members of the group who have fallen in love with them, have, fortunately, since then, been a liberal SZDSZ representative in the oblivion of history. Honourable Congressman, The Communists were not chosen in devices or enemies, anyone could easily be on their list. Where communism was raised, no one could feel safe. Communism was not only class-based; it also says that most of the time, the people on whom the Communists relied were raised against the system. An example of this is the Hungarian revolution in 1956, where most of the insurgents and victims were workers. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The terrible horrors of communism should warn the reuniting Europe as an exclamation mark. What do we see now? High-ranking EU leaders salute Marx. The Communists not only closed the body, but also tormented the soul. What are we experiencing today? Voluntaryly anointed prophets of freedom remember Fidel Castro as if the liberals of Europe and the Western world had fallen into severe amnesia. It is a shame that liberal politicians today are increasingly giving way to neomarxist currents and viewing their representatives as close allies. The suffering of millions of people motivates us to remember and remind, and warns us not to relativity the sins of communism. Dear Parliament, If we think of the victims of communism, we can think of Father Placid, his life testimonial, his courageous and cheerful exhilaration, which even the Communists could not take away from him in the cruel world of the gulag. As you said in an interview, in the late 2000s, you said: "The Lord has a sense of humor! For ten years, the Soviet Union has done everything in its power to destroy me. I'm here, but where's the Soviet Union? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm In particular, I was seized by the four rules that he named, which were the guiding principle of the forced labour camp, and what he called the rules of survival. Allow me to conclude my speech by leaving these four points as a memento: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Suffering must not be dramatic. You can't complain because it makes you weaker. Joy is needed to survive. Therefore, you need to notice and consciously look for the little joys of life. We're not perfect, but here and now we have to show that we're better than our captors. It's mobilizing life energy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Last thing you need to do is hold on to something that's easier. We believers, if we hold on to the good Lord, we find out that he wants us to survive, too. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.10]]
u2020-02-25-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group entitled "Our current affairs" before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It's the Memorial Day of the victims of communism. Several people remembered this. The Fidesz faction today honors the memory of the victims at the martyr's memorial; I urge everyone in this House to do the same. My speech before the agenda concerns a different subject. As the general public has already been informed, the court has awarded compensation of HUF 100 million to Gypsy families in Gypsy Gypsy Gypsies in Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsies because of the justification. The municipality of Gyöngyöspata is obliged to pay 80 million HUF and the remaining part is the current maintenance district. This decision is unjust, unilateral, exaggerating and destructive. It's unfair because he's punishing the entire settlement. It is devastating because the payment of compensation would soon bring Gyöngyöspata's municipality to the brink of bankruptcy. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The judgment is irresponsible, because 100 million forints would not bring peace and relief but tension and threaten social peace that has been achieved in recent years. On top of that, the case broke out just as the Gypsy families set off on the road to life - style change, instead of helping, they live from work and try to raise their children properly. It is feared that the promising process will be cut to the full by the judgment of the judge and will turn the Pearl Patans against each other. Conscious mixing of concepts of catching up and segregation has thus created a politically unfair situation, after which justice must be served. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) Dear House, We know that the organization that initiated the judicial procedure is funded by György Soros. We know from the beginning, and let's just say they provoked the pearl-pata case. It is the Soros network that has visited and angered the Roma families to sue the state. It is the Soros network that wants to turn the Hungarians against such lawsuits against the Roma. It is the Soros network that hinders agreement with Roma families to compensate them with education and not with money. It is the Soros network that organized a demonstration here in Budapest last Sunday to further stimulate the tension in Hungary. The Soros network therefore wants to turn the Hungarians against the Roma. That's what they do in Gyöngyöspatan and other settlements. This is what they do all the time in Parliament and in the streets of Budapest, and the left-wing parties are being dragged to it. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] We welcome the fact that the court is expected to assess the case not in the fall, but in the fall. The Fidesz faction trusts that the Curia's April process will examine the school district and the local government's proposals in substance. The spring hearing is also good news because a national consultation will be launched on this issue. We know that there have been numerous motions before the court that could have influenced the decision, but neither the first or second instance court has dealt with them in substance. This was also the suggestion that students who had received lower quality training according to the court should be assisted by education and training, but unfortunately, they did not sufficiently examine whether school attendance was both a right and an obligation. According to this, students with many unauthorized absences could hardly have violated their rights at school if they had not gone in there. The majority of Pearl Pata are also rightly outraged because they can also receive compensation for those who forced the majority to back out of their own school. For example, it would have been possible to ask the parents of 86 students who did not go to school in Gyöngyöspata this morning because they were excluded from the institution. Dear House, The case is an excuse for Soros Foundations. After all, they follow the same pattern as in other topics: they want to create as much political scandal as possible and try to get greater compensation from the state. It is clear, therefore, that it is not about organizations that are committed to helping Gypsy people in the long term. Unfortunately, in our experience, these Soros organisations will not rest until they are able to bring the matter to an international judicial forum. It has become clear that they do not want peaceful coexistence between Hungarians and Gypsies and do not want fair, good and just answers to existing problems. Their recipe is to deliberately trigger a conflict and then call on the Roma to fight against majority society. This is unfair and unacceptable. The important thing for us in recent years is that for the majority of Gypsies, aid-based life has been replaced by work- and learning-based life. We cannot allow this difficult joint achievement to be destroyed. We therefore ask the government to do everything in its power to prevent this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is important to say that neither Gyöngyöspatán nor in the other settlements where this foundation appeared, in fact the community there never invites this foundation, this Soros organization, to come there, but this organization is clinging to local communities. This organization is looking for local conflicts so that it can make even more sense of them, create even more political conflicts, and create even more international conflicts, possibly by extorting as much compensation as possible from the state, the local government or the district. This is therefore a clearly organised action, which György Soros himself acknowledged, because a few weeks ago he published a video in which not only he, but several of the leaders of his organizational system, spoke, in which he designated the next conflict field, so to speak, so to speak, that he has designated the main topic of the next political struggle, namely to increase the conflict between Gypsy and Hungarians, and he even said that the integration of Roma in Hungary is clearly not good enough, because not all Roma people protest against the government. He therefore believes that Roma integration means that Roma people should protest against the government, against the government that the Member referred to, which, thanks to his work, is now subject to fewer and fewer Roma families at risk of poverty, so that employment among Gypsy people has increased to a noticeable extent to a very large extent, with the result that there are now twice as many Roma students studying at universities as ten years ago. All these results would be forward-looking results. What the Soros organization is doing is not leading forward, but merely trying to gain political advantage and discredit Hungary abroad; they are not looking at the long-term interests of the people who live there, but only their own short-term political interests. That's why they're putting people in these fights who've already tried their people in other areas. Some of them had excellent experts in gender matters before, well, now he is there in Gyöngyöspatán; some of them had an important mobilization factor in migration matters, and he organized the migration of the tigers in 2015 next to the Keleti Railway Station, and he is now there in Gyöngyöspatán. Lawyers, the media, were all organized around Gyöngyöspata, who had been there in the past in gender questions or in the issue of forced immigration, and were previously tried ideological warriors, who were actually committed to following the idea of open society, and if George Soros says that the question of gypsies should be taken political advantage, then there are Gyöngyöspatan and they are litigating. They also say that their goal is to bring as many lawsuits as possible and to bring as many lawsuits as possible to foreign courts. As of yesterday, it was mentioned how many judges in these foreign, more specifically, international judicial forums who had been involved in the institution system of György Soros as a scholarship or an instructor there. On 30 January, more than 20 days ago, the school district and the municipality sent a letter, precisely so that they could share the court's judgment as effectively as possible in order to initiate negotiations with those involved, so that the compensation which amounts to HUF 100 million would not be granted in cash to these families, but in the form of training, occupations and trainings. Three replies have been received for these more than 60 letters sent. This is obviously a small enough part of the entire round of plaintiffs, but we can also see that earlier in various internal forum entries, the foundation specifically aggressively drew the attention of the parties to the trial so that no one would negotiate separately, no one would make a separate agreement, because they would take their hands off it. [[10.20]] At the same time, it is important that a national consultation was launched in this case, as these organisations want and will certainly condemn Hungary to foreign forums, branding Hungarian people, the Hungarian government as racist, exclusionist, and xenophobic, as they have already done in relation to immigration, when Hungary defended its borders, they called it xenophobia. This is why the national consultation is important, because it is also the way out that we have been able to make it clear to everyone about immigration that we are talking about the opinion of the Hungarian people. Everyone was able to participate in the national consultation, and they can now express their views in a national consultation open to all, and the government will adapt the subsequent steps it will take to this. If we get the authority from people, then we can legislate for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. CXXVIII of 2017 on the application of legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. Act CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The government referral is T/9345. The IT network of the House is available to all and all interested parties. First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to point out with all due respect that there is a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for its further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I now give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, whom I also welcome on the occasion that he will give his sermon as State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It should be a fundamental objective for public administrations to serve customers and to give customers confidence to public administrations and public administrations. While this goes without saying, we know for a very long time that this was not the case, citizens often did not feel good about entering the doorway of an office if they had to handle matters. This marked not only the period before 1990, but also the years following the regime change for a long time, decades, without any substantial changes or substantial progress. After 2010, there was a change of approach in the domestic administration that it was finally not the client for the authority, but the authority's task was to serve the customers and provide them with real administrative services. From 2011 onwards, the establishment of a government agency system, the merger of public administrations, the establishment of a district administration system from 2013 to 2013 and the establishment of a government window system, which now provides services in more than 300 places, where customers can meet and meet new administration models throughout the country. Dear Parliament, Of course, there is not only a way to transform public administration, there are many different domestic and international trends. Professionals, lawyers, university professionals and legal practitioners involved in the development of the law will also help this work, and we will try to formulate proposals, methods and alternatives on how to develop and operate the country's public administration. Sometimes it is not easy to choose the best of these proposals, to make the best decision to make it easier for all customers and to take into account all relevant aspects. At the same time, it is worth monitoring the decisions taken, examining the effects in order to ensure that decisions are actually feasible and that the law enforcement authorities are able to make use of them, while ensuring the functioning of the law enforcement authorities. Such a process is ongoing as part of the development of the public administration, examining how we can ensure that customers are able to obtain final and enforceable decisions in their cases with a new terminology as soon as possible, with a new terminology, and within what administrative and judicial framework they can implement. The result of this recent review is this short bill, consisting of only a few sections, which is CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws adopted by the Parliament in December 2019 in connection with the establishment of single-level district procedures. CXXVIII of 2017 on the application of legal aid and the right to register costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. The aim is to amend the law. In the case of redress procedures, therefore, the objective is to ensure that they are carried out within the framework of the simplest possible procedural rules, avoiding unnecessarily complicated regulations. Of course, this is also the case for the application to the court; while, within the system of government office, it is justified that the application against the decision of the district and metropolitan district office be submitted to the court by the metropolitan and county government office, because the government office, as a supervisory body, is able to review the terms of the application with the documents of the main proceedings, and, if necessary, to ensure that the decision is changed as a supervisory measure, thereby saving the clients from legal proceedings. At the same time, it is perhaps a bureaucratic exaggeration that decisions taken at county level should be put forward to the ministries and submitted to the court with the assistance of the Ministry. We support the correction of all this type of regulation, the decision to simplify procedures, and I respectfully ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to support them. Dear Parliament, As of 1 March 2020, matters relating to the implementation of parent-child contacts will be handed over from the guardian authorities to the courts in the Act amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. The reason for the change is that more than 90 percent of the implementation of contact cases has been brought to justice after guardianship decisions, the final decisions actually adopted by the parties have been taken by the courts so that they can be simplified and accelerated and these procedures are in the interest of the children. However, for all these changes, it is also appropriate to provide by law that the jurisdiction of the court is determined solely by the place of residence and residence of the child, and that, in court proceedings, the party concerned should be treated as a parent in the same way as the guardianship proceedings, the right to record costs, i.e. the costs incurred, be paid by the State to the party required by the court to pay the costs. The customer obliged to pay the court's costs will eventually have to pay the costs and the levy paid by the State. Dear Parliament, The examination of the proposed legislation now submitted in exceptional proceedings is justified by the need to ensure the entry into force of the bill by 1 March 2020. However, this also means that the State is able to make sound, prudent decisions in such a way as to provide sufficient preparation for the implementation of a measure. To this end, I ask for the support of the honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, and of the honourable Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.30]]
u2020-02-25-30	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, I thank you, as rapporteur, for your speech. I would like to inform you that you will have 17 minutes and 22 seconds at the end of the debate for your further comments in the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. The time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 24 February 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed CXXVIII of 2017 on the application of legal aid and the right to register costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. Act CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. T/9345. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It accepted by 30 votes in favour, with zero abstentions and seven abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before us is to settle administrative and judicial decisions so that citizens can settle their public affairs and disputes as soon as possible. The Law for the establishment of single-level district office procedures amended the Law on Administrative Procedure in such a way that the application against administrative decisions should be submitted to the competent court by the supervisory body. According to the amendment, applications for decisions of the district or of the metropolitan district will be forwarded to the court by government offices. However, as of 1 March 2020, a number of tasks and powers will be provided at government level, i.e. a significant part of the decisions would be taken by government agencies as supervisory bodies to the ministries. The proposal submitted therefore sets out that the application against the decisions of the authorities and the defence document should be forwarded by the determining authority directly to the court. Ladies and gentlemen, As of 1 March 2020, matters relating to the implementation of the contacts will be transferred from the guardianship authorities to the courts. For this reason, it is appropriate to state by law that the jurisdiction of the court is solely determined by the place of residence and residence of the child. The proposal also provides that the party concerned, the parent, is entitled to the right to record costs in court proceedings. Dear House, In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-25-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the keynote speeches will be held, in which the lead speakers will present their group's position. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Kovács. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-25-33	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The T/9345. I would like to present the group's position on the legislative proposal before us, but before I do that, I would like to congratulate my friend István György and my former colleague on this difficult task. He's a man who's proven himself mayor, congressman and government commissioner. I wish him good work in the coming period. [[Dr. István György: Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen, CXXVIII 17 on the application of legal aid and the right to register costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. Act CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. We are indeed in a hurry to amend the law, since 1 March is already on our hands, and until then it is necessary to make technical, minor amendments in order to simplify the procedures. This is part of a process, ladies and gentlemen, because since 2011 we have come to the conclusion that, by creating an integrated territorial administration and simplifying procedures, by deregulation and simplification of more than 250 laws, that the conditions for a single appeal have been established in the public administration, according to which decisions taken in the first instance procedure could go directly to the court if customers feel the need for redress. It's a big leap in this procedural order. Obviously, the practice will work out how this will work, but it will also require decisions to be taken before the courts that will hold their place. It is obvious that it is necessary to strengthen the first-level administration. If this is not possible everywhere in 197 districts, by putting a lot of powers back in government offices and aiming at this amendment, it may be possible to correct these tasks in the government office, if necessary, instead of the previous, in the majority of the Ministry's review, locally, if necessary, and if necessary to refine the first instance decisions. A judicial review may then take place, if you see it. Instead of the previous three steps, this is now taking place in two steps, providing customers and bodies with an appropriate time limit, but the situation is still simplified. As far as contact is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, implementation cases have already been dealt with in the courts in a significant majority of contacts cases, so that is where the final decision was decided. Now, according to the new proposal, and the necessary technical amendment to this effect, which concerns the cost record, is that, where the customer's proceedings are not free of tax but costs, they are not decided in advance by the determining body, but are decided ex post in proportion to the winnings. The proposal lists which types of cases fall within the scope of the law on non-court proceedings and individual court proceedings, and consequently provides customers with a clear line of proceedings to know what awaits them in the next period before the court proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the proposal before us, in the practice of redress so far, cases have been brought to court to a virtually minimal extent from the more than 20 million administrative cases that appear in the territorial administration. If we remove the 7-8 million documents from this, there will still be 15 million cases left, and I believe that if the recipients of the powers, first-rate district offices or government offices are doing well, they will not make the statistics worse, they will not increase the number of cases that have so far been brought to the court for redress; I believe that the guarantee of quality work is the expertise that exists there. And what will be brought to court will be decided by the court on further procedural action and on the procedure itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend this technical amendment, in some respects, to your attention. Please support it; the Fidesz fraction supports the government's submission. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[10.40]]
u2020-02-25-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has made quite a lot of criticism about the transformation of the administrative system over the past decade. We've told you on what aspects and what we didn't want to do. Obviously, these two-thirds majority have been through and have been implemented over the past period. However, this bill was a proposal which was also voted for by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Obviously, the speakers before me have also mentioned that there are mainly technical amendments to this bill, or, since a law which is amended by it will enter into force on 1 March 2020, it is obviously not appropriate for parts that would be amended immediately to enter into force. It is enough for legislation not to say that it is bankrupt if we amend those rules in a week or two. Obviously, it is appropriate to include these amendments in the law before the entry into force and to include the amended texts, to enter into force and to apply them. Obviously, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supported the emergency procedure in view of this practicality. István György, State Secretary, in his opening speech, said that customers should be served by the administration system, the administration system, and that this was not the case long ago. There is indeed a transformation over the last 30 years, and really, it is necessary to give preference to customers in the first place or not to feel like they are entering a public authority who wants to dictate in any way, and wants to impose laws on them, but they really should treat them as partners, and in this it is very important to make progress, which can also be observed continuously since the change of regime. So it really is a very big truth that the authority is for the customers, and not the clients are for the authority. But I think it is not only the clients that should be valued, but also the civil servants who work here should be valued. Mr Zoltán Kovács said that he considered it very important to strengthen the administration. I think the best way to strengthen the administration is to honor them. We value them with money, and not by seeing that at certain government windows, they simply can't put an administrator behind the windows, because they don't go for that kind of money, that kind of income. If we value them, then obviously there won't be such a problem. And obviously, it must also be avoided that workers should not go there in contrast, but rather those who have the right qualifications, the right qualifications, the right experience. This is a very important aspect. However, we can only achieve this if we appreciate them properly, so I also consider this aspect very important, which has not yet been mentioned here. The fundamental interest in administrative procedures is speed and simplicity. Obviously, ever since Jobbik has been in Parliament, we keep saying that when this issue comes up, and we refer to Western European patterns, how easy the administration is in Western Europe, how soon things can be done, and obviously the goal here is to be able to deal with these issues as easily and as quickly as possible by citizens in Hungary. We can obviously see that progress has been made in this regard, and the reason why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this legislation is because it is also a law that contains not much, but as much progress as it can fit into it. So, on this front, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this. Obviously, it is an important interest to bring the matter before the court as soon as possible, since it accelerates the procedure itself; when we determine and simplify the transfer of cases to the court, the transmission of documents, that is in any case a positive move. We also find it positive in this bill that the non-court proceedings for the implementation of the Contact Decision will be placed under the right to record costs. Obviously, it would be best if these procedures were completely cost-free and not only with a record of costs, since in all such cases one party would have to bear the costs of litigation and the costs incurred. Here is the list of 1. There are quite a number of subjects in Section A, and we know well that there are a lot of costs involved in a lawsuit of origin, but there are also many other lawsuits or non-court proceedings, which are listed, with significant costs, but it is positive that the non-court procedure for implementing a decision on contacts has been included here as a new cost registration right. On this basis, I see that the bill is eligible, so it contains technical and minor amendments, and that is why we support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Again, we have a proposal that hasn't been in front of this House for 24 hours. Mr Secretary of State has said a few points on the basis of which the urgent debate on this proposal is justified, but obviously this proposal does not only concern one area. There is, and there is, something that raises some concerns about opposition representatives and the MSZP faction. On the one hand, even if such a proposal is urgent, I think it would be more elegant not to submit it a few minutes before the deadline. There are basically two areas of the proposal, as has already been said, namely the procedure for implementing the Contact Decision, and what is obviously more worrying to me is a deadline amendment: there is obviously a deadline for the administrative body to refer the application to the court against the decision. Let's look at one first, the question of contact decisions. Obviously, it is often possible that the rules of contact laid down in such decisions are not complied with by the parties or by one of the parties. In this case, enforcement of a court order may be requested, as has been said, in civil non-court proceedings. The detailed rules in this regard were regulated by this particular 2019 CXXVII. Law. You have made a mistake in this, and you obviously intend to remedy it, partly with this amendment to the legislation before us today, which I understand, but this is a mistake. The other element, and let me highlight a positive, eligible thing, is obviously the right to record costs, which appears as a new element in the bill before us today; the parties to the procedure for implementing the Contact Decision are entitled to this right to record costs. This is obviously a step forward, which is why I say that we have an ambivalent feeling, because there is an element in the proposal that is eligible, this element. However, the rules governing the transmission of the application to an administrative court are also affected by this proposal. According to the rules in force, if the decision of the administrative body is illegal, it may be brought before a court. The demand letter shall be submitted to the administrative body which shall forward it to the court within 15 days. If more public authorities act, 5 plus 21 days rule applies. The first instance body had to send it to the second degree body within 5 days, which had a further 21 days to send it to court. [[10.50]] This has been amended by another law for 8 plus 21 days to be quite precise, but today's proposal says that 30 days should be available for the transmission of the application by default. If several bodies have acted because of an appeal, the transmission can be delayed for 15 plus 30 days. To sum up, there are also eligible elements in this proposal, but the fact that 45 days may pass, where appropriate, while the case of a breaching administrative decision is brought to court cannot be supported in this way. Not to mention that if you run into a longer period of time, if any, during the summer recess, that time may extend even further until he gets justice for his problem. Therefore, we cannot support this, especially given that the explanation for this may simply be that there are not enough staff in public administrations, government offices, and it is likely that they will not be able to do this work within the time limits laid down in the previous legislation. We believe that this includes the process of governing the last ten years. In our view, these workers must also have adequate working conditions, adequate wage, so that they can carry out their very important work for citizens in a sufficient number. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-02-25-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You started with the usual horse-zung, which was about how everything was terrible in the public administration before 2010 and everything was perfect after 2010, while as a mayor of merit, you well know that before 2010, much of the administrative matters were handled by the municipal authorities. This is the only reason why a change of government cannot be expected to produce such a wonderful result. And I am also sure that, as has been spent in public administration since then, a high authority leader also knows that the current administration system is neither the country of smile nor everything there is perfect. And let me put it very gently: the fact that everything before 2010 was for the sake of the office, but since then everything has been for the sake of the customers, to put it mildly, it doesn't hold up. This bill shows that it is precisely the customer's aspect that matters the least to you when it comes to the administration system. How thoughtful, systematic, methodical and predictable this development is, the transformation of public administration is an excellent example. If you remember, a bill was brought here to Parliament sometime in December, even without short deadlines and substantive preparation, professional consultation, substantive justification and impact assessment, which has been put into the administrative system in a lot of places, and beyond that everything has been dealt with from the termination of the labour judiciary through the increase in the wages of judges to the administration's affairs, and then this law has not even entered into force yet, but they are already coming up with the next bill, in which the bill will be supplemented. These problems didn't exist in December? During the Christmas break, did the problems related to the procedures appear? Is that when the clients in government offices started lining up to make changes like this or something? Obviously, this is not the case, but it is an idea, haste, and firefighter, that the public administration is being reorganized. While there may be a system of society outside of education that is very ill-suited to this type of hasty transformation and restructuring, it is the system of administration. Ethosa of public administration would simply require that changes take place in a predictable way, in the long term, on a permanent basis. This is primarily in the interests of customers, and this will be quality work, and this will make your case predictable by the Secretary of State who wants to deal with it or seeking justice... Secretary of State? It is also important for ministers of state, of course, but I am thinking of citizens, so it is also important for citizens to know how public administration works and where to turn in what case. To sum up, I can say that this bill, while we perceive that it intends to solve certain problems with good intentions at many points, has a number of serious problems. First of all, we do not find out, and unfortunately, we did not get a meaningful answer from the expo, as to why the urgency, this static trial, that the bill was submitted by Monday, we will discuss it on Tuesday, and it will enter into force on Sunday. What justifies this? What's so urgent about that? What couldn't have been brought before the Parliament in December, or what wouldn't have come into force on April 1st? It is not clear either, although the secretary-general's exposé gave some briefing on what the purpose of the bill is. The explanatory statement, which was very narrowly formulated, did not reveal this either, although we can now see a little more clearly on the basis of the expozee. Obviously, it is a critical point in this bill which refers to the jurisdiction of the court the arrangement of matters relating to relations. Here, Mr Secretary of State said one part of the arguments, which are in favour of this solution, that this will allow for a faster, simpler procedure. At the same time, it will turn the guardians off from another side of this procedure, the expertise and local knowledge that the guardians have and do not have in the courts, and from this point forward, it will not be possible to use it in the arrangement of these matters. We don't know exactly how many cases we're dealing with, we don't know what kind of load reduction this causes in social services, and we don't know what kind of load increase it causes in the courts. We do not know how the courts will assess these matters without the prior procedure of the guardianship authority, in fact how this will happen. It cannot be said that this is a harmful change, it can be said firmly that we do not know what effect it will have, because the government has not done its homework. After inadequate preparation and consultation, he brought this proposal here, gave no proper justification and did not assess the effects of this proposal. There is also a suspicion that what my fellow Member has already mentioned is that after the failed public service relationship, they know that this was also the case when we said in Parliament that it will have a serious impact that they want to withdraw a number of the rights of public administration workers in addition to the promise of an uncertain wage increase; unfortunately, we were right; unfortunately, it turns out that thousands of good professionals have left the administration as a result of these decisions, so we are living with the suspicion that it is simply because the government is unable to provide the appropriate qualified workforce in the area of public administration, and we also know that the guardians are in a particularly critical situation in this respect, that it would like to shift the task to the courts. But we do not know what the courts will say, we do not know that there is capacity for this, and even the courts are not famous for being able to settle matters quickly and effectively, or for having unnecessary capacity there. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that a number of technical elements of the proposal include eligible and positive elements. This is in any event the extension of the right to record costs to procedures for the execution of contacts, such as the simplification of the rules on the lodging of an application or the details of the procedure for non-compliance with the rules of contact. These would also be well-designed and eligible proposals in our professional position. However, on the whole, I can say that, since this proposal has been put here at a rapid pace without presenting the effects, we will not be able to accept it on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, despite its eligible elements. We are sorry, because this is a case in which, if the government had given the right time to prepare, a broad professional and political consensus could have been reached. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-02-25-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible for two minutes of speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The further speeches may now be against the remaining time frame. I'll ask if anyone wants to live with that. [[For signal:]] Member Lóránt Keresztes, the group leader of the Group, has applied for a speech from the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We believe that this is a technical amendment on which it is not appropriate to launch a longer debate, but I would certainly like to respond briefly to what has been said. Indeed, the introduction by the Secretary of State was quite far from the point of view and was quite large, and I had interesting thoughts, even if not specifically in relation to the legislation. [[11.00]] These are precisely informed and prudent decisions. And, by the way, my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, expressed very good criticism regarding the inclusion of the legislation itself and the current proposal and the legislative quality of the government; we see the serious problems of this system. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about the legislation and proposals of the government, that just in the days before the Parliament, a law aimed at preventing final court decisions taken in a legal environment that you have set up. So I think that this tells us pretty much how seriously the government takes legislation and how seriously it takes the legal environment that it has created. So we can't talk about prudent and well-founded decisions here in any way. Indeed, the situation here is that this legislation, the 2019 CXXVII. legislation has not yet entered into force, and we are about to change it, and we must obviously remind the government that if the legislative process were to comply with the conditions and conditions for legal and professional consultation, they would not perhaps be in such a situation that a law which has not yet entered into force should now be amended in such a rapid pace. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Obviously, it must also be said that this bill, which has come before us, has not been discussed in society either, that the required consultations have not taken place here either, and that, obviously, the legitimate criticisms that my fellow Member, Mr Arató, has made are also correct, and we do not know exactly what the effect will be. In Mr Salacz's comments, the Legislative Committee presented its position, pointing out that the aim is also to allow citizens to settle matters as soon as possible, but this proposal is quite contrary to the length of time, a greater period is being introduced, so here the justification is not very coherent with what the legislation itself is proposing. However, given the problems and specificities of the system, this deadline or increase in duration is considered to be even technically justified. However, the most important idea here with regard to public administration is that it is an extremely important system, and it is extremely important that this system can serve citizens, and unfortunately, it is indeed having very serious problems, and not necessarily particularly on the regulatory side, as many of my fellow Members have said, on the labour force side. So there is a huge exodus from the sector, and it is a very serious problem that neither the respect for material or working conditions will be given to the workers here, and that is why the terrible shortage of labour that is characteristic of public administration could arise, and that affects the everyday life and administration of citizens, Hungarian people. I believe that if the government is to be responsible for making a real improvement on this issue, it is in any case the problem that needs to be dealt with and that people who work in public administration must be valued financially and in all respects. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome to my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr István György, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that we have 17 minutes to respond. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Comments have been made, and some of them are something I would like to respond to. As many have summarised, there are two amendments to the legislation, the amendment of the three elements of which is included in the package. One: there are 30 days to file an application, compared to a slightly shorter period so far, but this is not because the proposal is unthinkable or we want to give the public administration a longer time to bring the actions before the court, but it is precisely that, because of the procedures that have become uniform, the body that has taken the decision should have time to review its own decision. There will be no second instance, there will not be an appeal, only the judicial path will remain for the customers, and it is therefore even more necessary for the public administration, which has taken the decision, to carry out a decision that has been taken by that body in a decision review procedure and, if it considers it justified, to amend its own decision by avoiding the judicial path. If this stays in the law in accordance with the December rules, then these proceedings and cases under appeal must be filed in eight days; the eight days are certainly insufficient to write a defence and, moreover, to review the decision in substance. So I myself think this is definitely in the best interest of the customers. By the way, according to the previous order, both the supervisory body and the first instance body that took the decision did not have enough time to do thorough work, so that is the real reason for this 30-day deadline. What Congressman Arató has said is that 15 plus 30 days, that is not the case, there are 30 days in total, so there are 30 days from the filing of the action. Indeed, reading the legislative context deserves sufficient attention to be able to draw that conclusion, and I am far from saying this with the intention of hurting it, but if the Members read this section carefully, then... [[Gergely Arato: That was Congressman Varga, not me!]] Was it Congressman Varga? No. That was you. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Then I'm sorry, I wrote it myself, that you said 15 plus 30 days is 45 days, and that's an unacceptable long time. There are no 45 days in law, and in total, within 30 days of the submission of the demand letter, the applications must be sent to the court. It is an internal deadline for the decision taken to be sent up to the government office within a period of, say, 30 days overall. I also thank you for the criticism made by Jobbik, and thank you for understanding and feeling, overall, that the proposal itself is constructive and forward-looking, and thank you for the comment, because, of course, I expected among the comments that the criticism of why the legislation adopted in December should now be amended. I think that, in general, this is why you cannot be so very angry if such a comment is made, but I think that if we recognize the one to be corrected, we can further improve and simplify the simplification package, and I am also of the opinion that it is our duty, and especially if it is before the entry into force of the legislation, it is certainly, and unfortunately, this is the only way to do so now that we had to ask for an exceptional procedure in Parliament. I didn't say that in the expo, but I'd like to say that a package of 700 cases went into Parliament in December, obviously the opposition doesn't care, but it's a huge one. It was a heroic job that lasted for several months and even risked taking more than a year. Of course, all the elements of this were analysed very thoroughly several times by the wallet, but the fact that these elements could still be corrected is due to the nature of life, and once again, we thought it would be more appropriate to do so now. In addition, there is another reason that Mr Arató also mentioned: he does not know what the courts will say. I also consulted the President of the National Court Office, and he specifically asked for the adoption of these amendments, and of course we shared that. And the other element of the application, of course, has been discussed in several circles with the government agencies, but once again after the adoption of the legislation, we modelled how the time limits available are going to be, and we have taken the risk of receiving criticism in Parliament, in a majority position at the government's office, divided into opinions, why we are bringing legislation adopted in December to the House now. It is also, I think, part of the freedom of its Members to see how Roma damages can be brought into line with this proposal. I certainly wouldn't have thought of that, but I obviously don't want to respond to that, and the reason that this amendment is likely to be needed several times is because there are not enough professionals in the administration, these two things are not related. [[11.10]] It is not related, because it is not a matter of few people, but of being able to review these decisions with sufficient depth. The government has a very strong idea of optimization of numbers, and it is obviously going through this consistently. For the number of government agencies, the government itself says that this will be sufficient for the tasks and powers to be carried out now. This is 34 501 people, if I remember correctly, which is defined in the number of frames. This is the number of government offices carrying out their duties, now having the necessary number of 700 people to perform the construction tasks. And the effects of the labour market, I think, are realities that should be taken into account, and if you look at Budapest or the developed economic regions of the country, you can also see that there is a very intense absorption effect on the part of the competition sphere. In the last two or three years, there has been a serious wage explosion, so today's wage positions are indeed quite different than they were three years ago; in 2016 there was wage development in the district administration system and in 2017 in the government official system. Indeed, life has passed these wages, and the government has therefore decided to implement wage development in the government agency system. In April, it will be paid back from January, and the cafeteria system will also be returned to government offices, which we believe will definitely improve the keeping of government officials at work, and this wage development will be 17.4 percent wage development along with the cafeteria in government offices. In view of the fact that there are several levels of wage development in the sectors of the economy, this is slightly higher than in most sectors. Thus, the respect of government officials in terms of wage and out-of-wage benefits will certainly improve in the coming time. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-44	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, I will take a break for 12 hours 30 minutes, and we will continue our work at no earlier than 12:30 p.m. with decisions. Thank you for your understanding. (Sunning: 11.13 12.34 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. László György Lukács)
u2020-02-25-45	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and please check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The T/8659 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Qatar on the publication of the Agreement on the reciprocal visa waiver for nationals of diplomatic and special passport holders. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8659. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 164 unanimous votes in favour. T/8660 on the publication of Decision No 1/2019 of the EKLT Joint Committee on the replacement of Annex I to the EKLT Agreement on Civil Aviation Rules. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/8660. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 165 unanimous votes in favour. It follows that T/9241 on the necessary immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9241/10. T/9241/11 and T/9241/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9241/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes to 20, with five abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9241/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 139 votes to two, with four abstentions. The European Citizens' Initiative H/9282 on "The Cohesion Policy for the Equality of Regions and the Sustainability of Regional Cultures" follows. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/9282/5. H/9282/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/9282/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 158 unanimous votes in favour. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the proposal for a decision, as amended by the summarised amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/9282. The text of the proposal for a decision, as amended by the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended resolution proposal with 158 unanimous votes in favour. CXXVIII of 2017 on the application of legal aid and the right to register costs in civil and administrative court proceedings follows. Act CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. T/9345. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9345. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 139 votes in favour, no votes against and 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the room.]] [[12.40]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. And my fellow Members, who wish to leave the Chamber for an urgent public task, should do so quietly and as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, After you take your seats, we will begin our work. The general debate of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the United Nations on the publication of an agreement between the United Nations Office against Terrorism on the establishment of a regional programme support office in Budapest until its closure. The government referral is T/9276. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-25-46	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before you aims to announce the agreement signed at the Regional Counter-Terrorism Conference on Radicalisation: Regional Policy Responses and Risk Reduction, organised jointly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs and the UN Counter-Terrorism Office on 7 and 8 November 2019 in Budapest. The agreement provides for the establishment of a regional programme support office of the UN Counter-Terrorism Office, based in Budapest, and the agreement also settles the issues of privileges and exemptions necessary for the day-to-day operation of the office. According to preliminary information, the UN Counter-Terrorism Office would first set up a regional programme support office with a maximum of 25 people, which would subsequently be extended to a maximum of 50 people. The intention to set up an office is in line with the national interest in Hungary becoming a reception centre for international organisations, in particular the UN and other international humanitarian organisations. In the event of the implementation of the office creation plan, it could contribute to the government's intention to promote and retain the employment of a qualified, highly qualified, language-speaking workforce in Hungary. In addition, it may be possible to enter the International Staff in a domestic environment. The aim of the international agreement to be announced is to bring the agreement between the parties on the establishment of the office into force, so that the legal, logistical and budgetary negotiations necessary for the operation of the office can begin, as well as the necessary privileges and immunities for UN staff arriving in Budapest. Dear House, The conclusion of the agreement and the establishment of the regional programme support office in Budapest will make a significant contribution to increasing Hungary's international visibility and will provide an important opportunity to strengthen our commitment to counter-terrorism in principle and in practice. That's why I'm asking you to accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-47	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-25-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Last November, the Hungarian Government and the United Nations jointly organised a two-day conference entitled Radicalisation: Regional Policy Responses and Risk Reduction. In this context, the big news was announced that the UN's new specialized organization will place its regional seat in Budapest. The establishment of the new office is beneficial for the Hungarian State in all respects. In addition to creating new jobs in this way, the prestige of the country and the capital is greatly enhanced by this decision. Hungary is already home to the regional centre of many UN organisations, proving that our country is an outstanding player in the region. The new office, which is responsible for regional coordination in the fight against terrorism, is also evidence that Hungary is actively involved in the fight against terrorism. Although terrorism, and especially the Islamic fundamentalist attacks, are more likely to hit the western cities, we should not be rocking ourselves in the belief that we do not have to deal with the danger here. We are talking about a global phenomenon that we can only tackle jointly with a coordinated strategy across countries. The commitment of Hungary to the fight against terrorism is no better demonstrated than the fact that hundreds of our soldiers are currently fighting in the ties of an international coalition in Iraq, Afghanistan, Mali and the Western Balkans. In addition to military operations, we are also taking part in the reconstruction of the crisis zones, including through Hungary Helps, we have spent millions of dollars to help the population of the affected areas, reconstruction of churches, schools and hospitals, and help to the site. Dear fellow Members, The agreement to open the UN counter-terrorism office is another important milestone in the fight against terrorism. Therefore, the Fidesz fraction supports the publication of the agreement. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[12.50]]
u2020-02-25-50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, CHAPTER XXI Indeed, global terrorism is one of the biggest security policy challenges of the century. There are many types of this already, and unfortunately, we are also living in the age of terrorism, so it is possible to put it this way in this context. The United Nations is an organisation that is trying to coordinate the fight against terrorism globally with its international instruments. We think it is a great honor that you have chosen Budapest to set up an office in support of a regional programme. Jobbik, as a national party with modern values, stands firm against and condemns all types of terrorism, and we therefore fully support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-52	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is fully committed to the fight against terrorism. The Hungarian government has declared zero tolerance to terrorism. At the same time, we see that, thanks to immigration, terrorism is now a meaty reality in Western Europe. We also see that meanwhile, the mayor of London says that terror is part of the city life, the London mayor to whom Gergely Christmas comes for advice. After all, we believe that security is a huge asset, a security situation in our country and Budapest as our capital is a huge asset that we must preserve. We welcome the establishment of the Office against Terrorism in the United Nations in 2017 and welcome the fact that they want to open a new regional office in Budapest. This has been preceded by the last autumn conference, which we have already discussed here in Parliament, on the previous bill. At the same time, we believe that the UN could still do more, and we still see it as a priority for migration, for channelling migration money, for helping migration. We believe that the ratio should be reversed and that much more money, energy and resources should be spent on preventing terrorism and combating terrorism than is being spent on migration in the United Nations. And if we remember the victims of communism today, let me also bring to Parliament the government initiative that also concerns the UN, in which we want the UN to appoint a memorial day for the victims of communism. After all, we are talking about a dictatorial horrific idea that calls for 100 million dead people to be sacrificed, which is called XX. In the century, he wanted most of the deaths. I think that when tea, yoga and bicycle have a memorial day in the UN, the victims of communism should also designate a memorial day. I'll keep that in mind because of today's topicality. The KDNP fraction also clearly supports the creation of the regional office, and we will provide all the tools we can to continue and strengthen the fight against terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. What could be another issue in this Parliament that we have to agree on? It's obviously terrorism, which is called XX. At the end of the 20th century, the 21st century At the beginning of the 20th century, it is one of the most critical and most important issues that states and politics should focus on. So for our part, we also welcome the decision that the UN's new specialized body will arrive in Budapest, Hungary. We are pleased that the government has shown such flexibility, speed and cooperation in this matter. There's only one thing I want to share with you, and I don't want to waste any time, so obviously it would've been a shame to get up. Very often, and in the last two comments, I see that the communication panel still works that you are trying to constantly confuse the necessary, important and global battle on terrorism with the communication task of how and how this can be done in the direction of migratory pressure. I'm really asking you to be a little more careful about this. Let me tell you something short. There was a referendum in 2016, if you remember, I was the president of my own party, and like everyone else, we tried to make different measurements and analyses about who thought about this issue. We have made a measurement about which I think is a little further away from this question, but it is important, especially because of your communication, what people think, in which part of Hungary they feel that they are threatened with a high and serious terrorist threat. If you'd seen the result, I think you'd be more restrained and perhaps more cautious from this point of view. Because in Hungary, you have also mentioned to the population of Budapest that the world is a metropolitan phenomenon, so if somewhere, then people could be worried in Budapest. 47-48 percent of people in Budapest believe that this is what they should be afraid of. In a small village in northern Borsod, 78-80 percent think so. It's called propaganda, it's called fake propaganda. My request once again, while we will support the bill, while welcoming the work that the government is doing in this area, is important for such a UN specialized body to appear in Hungary, I very much ask that when we talk about this, when we draw up a task for ourselves on these matters, we try to stay narrow in this area and keep communication balloons and communication panels for other situations. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now two-minute speeches are possible, I don't see a candidate... But still. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Speaking of what we were talking about, I have once again gone over my speech and I have not discovered migration or a migration context in my speech, so I think that Member Molnar referred to another speech when he said that there is no link between migration and terrorism. But, speaking of which, I'm afraid there's a connection, because a lot of terrorist acts are committed by people with a migration background. So there is a connection. I think it is unnecessary to refer to referendums in this context, because we can refer here to referendums in 2004 or other referendums if someone here wants to mention the past. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one wanted to take any further two-minute speeches, further speeches will now take place. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-25-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I had no intention of speaking, but I do not think that we should be on the sidelines when it comes to an important motion. It is well known that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian State do not regard the fight against terrorism merely as an armed fight, they intend to use and use all its means. I think it's the right thing to do. It should be made clear that terrorism itself can indeed be closely linked and closely linked to the kind of emigration that plagues the entire earth today. But you also have to see that there are reasons for that. And when the government takes a course to give us the opportunity and even the opportunity to fight terrorism in a different realm, it must not be forgotten that this kind of movement, this kind of huge mass of people, started for something else, not merely voluntarily and not simply by its own decision. Social issues lie behind it, serious social issues. The crisis, the crisis of the economic system that is increasingly emerging throughout Europe today, against which we need and wish to take serious action in Hungary. Therefore, it is necessary to see that these relationships extend far beyond what we see directly. I think that what the government has now undertaken and launched is to be welcomed because it is another plane, another field, not the armed line. Hungary has limited possibilities on the armed line. These limited opportunities, I believe, are exhausted, we have done our best, and at this level we will probably continue to do so in the future. But the new opportunities that Hungary needs to be able to explore must be at the forefront. If we have been at the forefront of the fight against terrorism in many areas, perhaps in military terms, perhaps even sublimating ourselves, then I think that this area is where we can find a new area, a new course. For this reason, I welcome the presentation myself. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2020-02-25-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank honourable Members and factions for their support for the bill. I would like to highlight a few things that have been said. The first and most important thing is that the security of Hungarian people is the most important thing for the Hungarian Government, so we have supported and supported all initiatives in the past, and we will continue to support it in the future, which are against terrorism, and which, by the way, is against migration, and we will not support any initiative aimed at organising migration from anywhere. Here I would like to reflect on Mr Molnár's speech, thanking and appreciating that he and his party support this bill and this initiative. However, we disagree, honourable Member, because when you talk about what the Hungarian Government is doing about migration, it is propaganda, I apologise, I must say that this is not true. We have to look through the last few years, and then we can see that in recent years there have been, without a doubt, thirty major acts of terrorism in major cities. I don't like that wording, because in an act of terrorism, you can't say that one of them is small, one of them is big, one of them is more acceptable, and one of them is more unacceptable, because all of them are unacceptable, but if you look at those that have received a bigger press response, then you know at least 30 of these things. In these terrorist attacks more than 330 innocent Europeans died in Europe and more than 1300 were wounded, and in all 30 cases it was immigration-related perpetrators who committed these terrorist attacks. And in this case, [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] They also say when they came in, former immigrant, present immigrant, multigenerational, and the rest, all of this is irrelevant, it doesn't matter whether these perpetrators came in with the current wave of immigration, or earlier, perhaps their accomplices came in. You can see that they could not and did not want to fit in here, and that innocent European people were murdered, and innocent European people were injured in these terrorist attacks. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It's not propaganda, it's the facts. I would like to finally see a politician who stands there, who speaks for migration, because there is one, and then stand before people who mourn over 330 people, and who have helped more than 1300 to recover, and say that migration is a good thing, and say that migration is not related to terrorism. That's not true. It's connected. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the People's Republic of China, of the other part, amending the Agreement on maritime transport to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until closure. Government referral T/9272. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Perényi Sigismund Peter, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-02-25-62	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to amend the Agreement on maritime transport between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the People's Republic of China, of the other part. Content of the amendment for harmonisation purposes. Its intention is to publish the minutes of the amendment taking into account the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Agreement was signed in Brussels on 6 December 2002 and entered into force on 1 March 2008. The aim of the Agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the Parties in the field of international maritime transport and to improve the conditions for the implementation of maritime freight transport operations. The agreement is based on the principle of free provision of maritime transport services, the principle of free access to cargo and freight between ports of third countries and unlimited access to ports and ancillary services. The Agreement has been amended several times in Protocols to take account of the accession of the Member States to the European Union. The first Amending Protocol was signed on 5 September 2005 by the parties in Beijing. This amendment to the Agreement was intended to take account of the accession of the ten new Member States, including our country, to the European Union, which became members of the Union on 1 May 2004. A second protocol amending the Agreement, signed by the Parties with a view to the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, was drawn up for a similar purpose in Brussels on 31 March 2009. Dear House, The Agreement and the first Protocol were published by Act X of 2009 between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the People's Republic of China, of the other part, on the publication of the Agreement on Maritime Transport and the Protocol amending it. The second Amending Protocol concerns the publication of the Protocol amending the Agreement on Maritime Transport between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the People's Republic of China, of the other part, by CVII of 2009. It's announced by law. Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill before Parliament is to publish the latest protocol amending the agreement by law. This Protocol was signed by the Parties in Brussels on 21 December 2018 and entered into force on 24 May 2019 with a view to Croatia's accession to the European Union. Pursuant to Act L. of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts, the international contract falling within the scope of Parliament's mandate and competence must be published in law. Once the Protocol forms an integral part of the Agreement, it shall also be published in law. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is, as has been said, the publication of the minutes by law. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill for legislative harmonisation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-25-64	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, On 6 December 2002, the European Community and its Member States and the Government of the People's Republic of China signed the Maritime Transport Agreement, which entered into force on 1 March 2008. When Croatia joined the Union, it also acceded to this agreement in the protocol which is the subject of this bill. I welcome this amendment to the agreement for two reasons. On the one hand, the Croatian Presidency began in the Council of the European Union on 1 January. It is therefore extremely important and timely that we announce this long-standing protocol as soon as possible. My fellow Members, I would like to remind you that at the end of last year, we discussed Croatia's accession to an EU agreement with Mexico. As Minister Szijjártó mentioned at the time, unfortunately, there have been instances in which a similar protocol has been waiting for the publication of the Hungarian Parliament for three years. Since then, fortunately, we have been able to reduce this time to a third, and I do not see any reason to extend this ratification process to longer than is necessary. Another reason to support the publication of the new protocol is the strategic importance of our relations with China. While there is no doubt that the challenge of the corona virus is currently causing quite a lot of confusion in European-Chinese relations, we need to think in the longer term. In this respect, however, it is clear that China, as one of the world's most important economic powers, is a key player in the Eastern opening. With its economic and technological and innovation power, this country is now an unavoidable factor in Hungary's foreign policy, among other things. Taking all these aspects into account, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support and support the publication of the new protocol. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.10]]
u2020-02-25-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As has already been said, it is necessary to adopt a new protocol to this agreement due to Croatia's accession to the EU. The original EU-China agreement is based on the principle of free provision of maritime transport services, the principle of free access to cargo and freight between ports of third countries, and the principle of unrestricted access to ports and ancillary services in relation to the commercial presence, and the same treatment of domestic companies in the event of their use. China's dynamic economic growth has made it an important economic and trade partner for the European Union and its Member States, including Hungary, in recent years. One third of the 13 thousand new jobs created by a record number of HUF 1705 billion 101 major investment in Hungary last year come from investments made by three East Asian countries, Japan, China and South Korea. First of all, we are also talking about the period before the corona virus, and Hungary and Budapest have also become a popular European destination for Chinese tourists. In 2019 nearly a quarter of a million Chinese tourists arrived in Hungary. We hope that, after we are over and overcome the coronal virus, we will be able to expect a further increase in Hungarian-China economic-commerce and tourism relations, when this is, of course, safe. The publication of the agreement is supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-68	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I'm only talking to him to get the government's sympathy. I would like to say that we fully support it; as you have heard from the excellent speech before me here, because of both the Chinese party and Croatian relations, I think that it is a great and excellent opportunity for Hungary to ratify this kind of agreement quickly. So, for our part, there is no other opposition speaker, so I can say on behalf of the opposition that we support and vote on it as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I ask my fellow Members how they would like to continue speaking in a normal time frame. (No one's reporting.) I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-02-25-70	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your valuable comment and thank you very much for your support. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the publication of the Agreement on international carriage and carriage of goods by road until its closure. Government referral T/9273. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Perényi Zsigmond, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-02-25-72	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to announce an agreement on international road passenger transport and freight transport between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and to incorporate the agreement signed with the Turkish party into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, it is necessary to publish the Agreement at a legal level. By signing this agreement, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey have admitted that cooperation is essential in order to stimulate transport links between our countries. Road passenger and freight links exist between our countries; they are governed by more than 50-year agreements signed on 14 September 1968 by the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The negotiations on the new agreement were initiated on the basis of a decision authorising the establishment of an international road passenger and freight agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The Hungarian and Turkish parties signed the new agreement at the meeting of the Hungarian-Turkish High Level Strategic Cooperation Council on 7 November 2019 in Budapest. The conclusion of this was a step welcomed by both the Hungarian and Turkish governments. Dear Parliament, The signed agreement shall apply to international carriage of passengers by coach or coach between two countries and transit through the territory of the States of the Contracting Parties and to international carriage of goods by motor vehicles registered in the territory of any State of a Contracting Party to a third country or from a third country. The Agreement lays down the conditions and framework for the carriage of passengers and freight, the cases of exemption from authorisation, and regulates the transport of oversized or dangerous goods. It shall provide for the obligations of the carrier and the measures to be taken in the event of an infringement and shall specify the competent bodies and the Joint Committee responsible for implementing the Agreement. Dear Parliament, The entry into force of the new agreement will facilitate the access of Hungarian carriers to the market in relation to transport between Hungary and Turkey. The Agreement shall be without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties arising from other international agreements. It does not in any way affect Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union. The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply or be interpreted in whole or in part as invalidated, amended or otherwise affect Hungary's commitments under the EU Accession Treaty. The same applies to our obligations arising from the founding treaties of the European Union and from the primary and secondary sources of law of the European Union. Dear House, I ask you to accept the proposed legislation and to support the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the international carriage of passengers and freight by road. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, please.
u2020-02-25-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is a matter of years of legal consultation, since the road passenger and freight links between Hungary and the Republic of Turkey were regulated by a 50-year agreement. On September 14, 1968, an intergovernmental agreement was signed, which then entered into force in Hungary in 1969. With the adoption of this bill, another law amending the Hungarian-Turkish road transport agreement signed between our countries in June 1976, which entered into law in 1978, will be repealed. It is important that cooperation and reciprocity between Hungary and Turkey are a common basis in this area as well, and that we improve the quality and smoothness of passenger and freight transport between the two countries. Turkey is in many respects a strategic partner of Hungary. Let us think about energy or the fact that there is a lively trade between our countries, the last target of which is to reach EUR 6 billion in traffic. In addition to business and economic cooperation, economic development is therefore promoted by the bill before us. The agreement in question was signed at the meeting of the Hungarian-Turkish High Level Strategic Cooperation Council on 7 November 2019. The adoption of the bill will be supported by the Fidesz parliamentary group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-02-25-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports the entry into force of this agreement with regard to Hungary, which was established between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in order to improve passenger transport and freight transport between the two countries. Let's say that I think there is something to be done about the Hungarian side, because if you go out on the motorways here in Hungary, in Hungary, you can see that Turkish trucks are coming in line, the trade in goods is very large from Turkey, which is likely to pass through most of Hungary, but in Turkey you can't see so many of the Hungarian trucks. Obviously, this is also due to the fact that transiting traffic through Turkey is much smaller than Turkish traffic passing through Hungary. Well, there is indeed something to be done about that. The legislation applies to international carriage of passengers by coach and bus and international carriage of goods. On the basis of this agreement, they will be entitled to international carriage of passengers or goods by road on the basis of a fee, who will be authorised. What's that supposed to mean? For bilateral transport, i.e. when the two countries are transporting goods or persons between themselves, for transit traffic, then for transport from or to a third State, cabotage, I did not know what the concept of cabotage meant either, meaning, for example, that the Turkish party only transports goods or persons from a station started in Hungary to a destination in Hungary, this is what we call cabotage or transit passengers by bus, scheduled passenger transport and non-scheduled passenger transport. It is therefore necessary to issue a licence, issued by the competent authority of the country of destination and transit; in general, the head office determines which country will issue these licences. They shall also set a period of 90 days during which these licences shall be issued. They do not require permits, so there are different forms of transport when they can be carried out without authorisation, such as the carriage of theatre, music, film, sports, circus events, animals for the purposes of advertising or education, and there are obviously cases where damaged or repaired vehicles are returned, roadways carried by decommissioning vehicles and urns, caskets containing the remains of the deceased, supplies of relief and mail; these are the privileged cases. What is very important is that carriers are obliged to comply with each other's national legislation. They should not be subject to less favourable regulators than vehicles authorised in their own State, so the same conditions should be provided for both countries. A separate licence shall be required in case of differences in weight and size, so if the weight value is exceeded or oversized, a separate licence shall be required. Similarly, a specific authorisation is required for the transport of dangerous goods. No special tax can be imposed, except in the case of tolls, overweight or oversized vehicles, and the competent authorities, which are the Ministry responsible for transport in Hungary, and the setting up of a Joint Committee for disputes. And one more thing: with six months' notice, any party that, I think, is of no interest to anyone, because the previous agreement has been in place for 50 years, since 1968, and no one has given up on this. Obviously, there is a new regulation because it is in the interest of the parties. So obviously the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-78	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The publication of this agreement under the law on procedures for international treaties is also necessary for the publication of this agreement at the legal level. The draft law contains the text of the agreement signed in Budapest on 7 November 2019. The Agreement governs the carriage of passengers and goods by road through bilateral or transit and to a third country or from a third country. The Agreement lays down the conditions, the framework, the cases of exemption from authorisation, the transport of oversized or dangerous goods, the obligations of carriers and the measures to be taken in the event of an infringement, and the competent bodies and the Joint Committee responsible for implementing the Agreement. That my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, should not remain without the subject of opposition, is why I would say that Turkey is an important partner of the European Union, because without Turkey there is no way to stop migration to Europe, which is why we believe that every agreement that facilitates this is important. The present transport agreement was signed at the same time as an archival cooperation agreement, a letter of intent on postal cooperation, a declaration of intent on family cooperation, an educational agreement, a cultural agreement, and a declaration of intent on cooperation under the. Stipendium Hungaricum. Turkey, our NATO ally, has also started cooperation between the two countries. My fellow Member has already mentioned that we want to increase trade relations between the two countries to EUR 6 billion, an ambitious goal, but not impossible and absolutely attainable. Obviously, my fellow Member Jobbikos sees more Turkish trucks on the Hungarian motorways than he sees a Hungarian truck on the Turkish motorways because he drives more than in Turkey, but many Hungarian trucks also go in that direction, I would reassure my fellow Member that the increase in commercial numbers proves that there is continuous freight transport in both directions. Since 2013, there has been a Hungarian-Turkish High-level Strategic Council, the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Turkish President hold an annual summit, the last summit was the signing of this convention or agreement and the other signatures mentioned by me, such as, for example, a declaration of intent to cooperate in space or a declaration of intent for diplomatic cooperation. In order to stimulate transport links between Hungary and the Republic of Turkey, cooperation is essential and it can provide an opportunity for a more vibrant economic, commercial, tourism and cultural relationship between the two countries. The existing agreement, which has already been mentioned, is that the creation of a new agreement that has been in force for 50 years will contribute to strengthening Hungary's economic relations in the eastern direction and can also help to strengthen bilateral trade and economic relations. At the meetings of the Joint Committee under the Agreement, the Parties shall specify, inter alia, the type, number, issue and order of use of the licences necessary for the carriage of goods. This will help to ensure that freight transport activities between the two countries can operate more flexibly, smoothly and effectively. Therefore, the KDNP fraction also supports the legal publication of the agreement. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Thank you very much for the inspirational thoughts I've had here in the last ten minutes. I would particularly like to thank Csaba Gyüre for this thorough analysis of what he has given us; if anyone had a dilemma about Turkish-Hungarian road transport, we are now fully safe on the basis of facts and detailed analyses. This Hungarian-Turkish history is interesting, something seems to happen every 50-100-150 years; it is an intergovernmental agreement of nearly 50 years. If we say nothing but how much technology and the world have changed in 50 years, then I think that, as Members of any colour, I must say that it is just time and why we should touch this Convention. And let us really consider that the transport, the type of technological period that has occurred in recent years and decades, requires not only the use of words, but also in other respects. For our part, after no less thorough analysis than what my better fellow Member has done, we see that the kind of political objection that he has raised, which he has raised, cannot be found in any way in this case. [[13.30]] I share, for my part, that Turkey is a strategic partner of both security policy and trade for a sane European politician. What we are debating is certainly not something to be mentioned in the field of road transport. I'd like to shine on how well we analyzed it. We found two new aspects in it, which appeared, which was simply not included 50 years ago, the option and possibility of transporting art objects and the possibility of transporting the deceased. Both, I think it's a good enough basis, enough reason to support this bill with a good heart in the vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in a normal time frame. (No one's reporting.) I don't see any contact either. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-82	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the valuable speeches and for the support of the bill. As a summary, I can say that this is a real boost to relations, we are changing outdated regulation, and we are helping Hungarian carriers to access the market. That is why I ask this House to adopt the bill and thank you very much for your comments. Thank you.
u2020-02-25-83	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the publication of the Agreement on cooperation on the construction, operation, maintenance, reconstruction and recovery of gas transmission lines crossing the common state border until closure follows. Government referral T/9274. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Perényi Zsigmond, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-02-25-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal is to announce an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the construction, operation, maintenance, conversion and response of natural gas transmission lines crossing the state border. The purpose of the bill is to incorporate the agreement signed with the Serbian party into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, it is necessary to publish the Agreement at a legal level. Dear House, By signing the agreement, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have admitted that their cooperation is essential to secure the supply of energy to their countries. They agreed that it was necessary to establish a link between the new gas pipeline across the border. This provides an adequate opportunity to diversify transport routes and sources of supply and guarantees long-term security of gas supply for consumers. Development also helps to a large extent the supply of gas to the Eastern European regions. The agreement also includes details of the cooperation on the construction, operation, maintenance, reconstruction and countering of the gas pipeline crossing the Hungarian-Serbian state border. The agreement was signed in Budapest in 2019 by Serbian Minister of Energy and Mining Aleksandar Antić and Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, The draft law fully regulates the issue of border crossings in connection with the construction of the pipeline and the operation, maintenance, reconstruction and counter-operation of the pipeline. One important element of this is that persons carrying out work on the implementation of the agreement may cross the state border outside border crossing points in order to facilitate work. The agreement also provides for authorisations for the installation of a wire, safety requirements and also provides for ways of resolving any disputes that may arise during implementation. I think it is important to point out that the work contained in the agreement cannot start until the provisions of the draft law enter into force. However, I would like to inform this House that the agreement has not yet been made on the part of the Serbian party. Dear Parliament, I would ask that the proposed legislation be adopted, and therefore you would like to support the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the construction, operation, maintenance, reconstruction and countering of natural gas transmission lines crossing the common border. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-25-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Minister Péter Szijjártó announced in October last year that the tender for the establishment of the Serbian-Hungarian Interconnector had entered its second phase, resulting in an annual arrival of about 10 billion cubic metres of gas from the Turkish Stream gas pipeline through Bulgaria and Serbia. There is no dispute that diversification is necessary to ensure the continuous supply of energy to Hungary, including its gas supply. In this case, cooperation between Serbia and Hungary is essential for the sake of energy supply. The new gas pipeline in question, which is cross-border, offers an opportunity to diversify transport routes and sources of supply, and will also be able to guarantee the long-term security of gas supply in the country. Since the construction is taking place at the borders of an EU and a non-EU country, it is necessary to address the administrative issues necessary for its implementation, including rules on the status, border crossing of workers and the right of mutual residence in the territory of our countries. The bill before us is intended to address these issues and its adoption will be supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-02-25-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2020-02-25-88	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As the previous speakers have mentioned, the current concrete agreement between Hungary and Serbia on the construction of the cross-border gas pipeline was concluded in preliminary negotiations between Péter Szijjártó Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the competent Serbian Minister of Energy. This agreement is now technically in shape with all the details. It is indeed necessary for the security of our gas supply to build the gas pipeline capacity crossing this border. But let me focus a little more on the security, routes and sources of gas supply in Hungary. Security, diversification, which is the original meaning of risk mitigation, risk reduction, can be achieved by using more sources of natural gas for Hungarians and more transport routes. Russian natural gas cannot be replaced by Hungary or even Europe. Therefore, one important issue was to find alternative routes compared to the insecure line from Ukraine. This would have been the South Stream, which would have come through the Black Sea and Bulgaria, and from this point of view, if you would have liked it, a parallel, would have been a different route for the pipeline operating through Ukraine. However, the European Union, the European Parliament, of which I was already a representative in 2014, prevented this from finally being built by President Putin in the light of certain rules on competition policy in the European Union. [[13.40]] It is interesting how policy can influence these issues, but at the same time the European Union has contributed to the construction of Nord Stream 2 and the operation of Nord Stream 1, because Germany has so much lobbying power that in this case competition rules were not of such importance. For the record, Nord Stream AG is the company that operates the Nord Stream and is registered in the city of Zug, Switzerland. That sounds great, but it's 51 percent owned by Gazprom. Now, that's how politics works. The other option is to get gas from the south and other separate sources. The LNG to be built in Croatia would therefore be the liquid natural gas terminal, but it has not been built for ten years, because it seems that it would not be economically viable, there are not enough candidates. It would be extremely important for Hungary. However, the fundamental reason why the European Union is pushing it and supporting this investment is by EUR 125 million. The other great pressure comes from the United States, and politics is entering again. The United States wants the European Union to build as little on Russian natural gas as possible for geopolitical reasons. However, behind this, his intention is also stalled, because President Trump has announced the great freedom of energy, the United States wants to become a global power of energy supply and transport liquid natural gas to Croatia. The EU and US diplomats are handing out the doorknob to each other in the Croatian competent ministry, only the United States is giving advice, and if it reduces Russian natural gas, it can sell the more expensive liquid natural gas. And let me just make one more comment, maybe we should talk about environmental protection. The reason why the United States is able to produce and transport natural gas to this extent is because it uses shale gas extraction, which is known to be highly polluting, does not spare the environment, endangers drinking water bases. Interestingly, this was simply banned in France. So when we talk about what the role of this cross-border capacity is, it would be this diversification, which, of course, would still have to come from Turkish Stream through Bulgaria to connect to this gas pipeline, which, we hope, will happen soon, because then at least diversification of the route, the risk-freeisation of the route will occur. So, of course, on behalf of the Jobbik, I am in favour of this, but perhaps I wanted to talk about the role of this in a slightly broader context. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Dr. István Simicskó in the notary seat.]]
u2020-02-25-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary's most important energy security effort is to ensure the supply of energy to consumers from reliable sources, in the long term and at affordable prices. By this Act, Parliament announces an agreement between the Hungarian Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation on the construction, operation, maintenance, conversion and elimination of natural gas transmission lines crossing the state border, signed on 14 June 2019. The signing of the agreement was made necessary by the recognition by the governments of the two countries of the possibility of diversifying transport routes and sources of supply by implementing a new gas pipeline across borders and ensuring the long-term security of gas supply for consumers. The aim of the agreement is also to address the administrative issues necessary for the implementation of the new gas pipeline across the border, in particular the status of persons carrying out the work on the construction of the gas pipeline, the impact of these persons and the right to reciprocal residence in the territory of Hungary and Serbia. An important element of the agreement is that persons carrying out work on the implementation of the project described in the agreement may cross the state border outside the border crossing point in order to facilitate the work. Article 9 of the Agreement provides that the Contracting Parties shall inform each other of the date of commencement of any activity resulting from the implementation of the Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 of the Agreement provides for the entry into force, amendment or conditions of termination of the Agreement. The Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following receipt of the last diplomatic list. In this diplomatic list, the Contracting Parties shall inform each other that they may comply with all the internal legal requirements necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement. KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-25-91	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Once again, I can say that the speakers before me have formulated a significant part of the thoughts that I would have liked. This is an important element of a network that, I think, is of great importance to both countries, and of course, we in the Hungarian Parliament must deal with our own business. I think that many people here have rightly said that it is an important stage of a key investment in terms of energy security in Hungary. So all the decisions, all the facilitations that can help investment in this context, in the context of the bilateral agreement, I think that we can support it. So I'm not going to add any more words, and we're going to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-25-94	Thank you for the floor. I'm basically for this law... [[His mic's not ringing.]] I picked up the wrong microphone... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is what happens when Ferenc Gyurcsány uses his microphone! Defiance.]] So, uh...
u2020-02-25-95	Congressman, we're gonna count the time, so I'm gonna need you to reset it. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-96	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that I was sitting next to the Democratic Coalition faction, not me, but László Fat. I just want to tell that to the majority of the government. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Thank you for the floor. So I would like to continue what my fellow Member Balczó said. Although this seems to be a technical amendment, and it seems from both the State Secretary's and professional contributions that we are talking about only such a general international treaty, which is not so much interested in Parliament, this is a very serious geopolitical issue which is now in front of the House. The fact is that this treaty started as the South Stream, then the end of the Russian pipeline, which avoided Ukraine, was converted into Turkish Stream; so what the Parliament is now giving its blessing to is this pipeline. This pipeline is needed because, at present, there is a conflict between Ukraine and Russia in euphemisms, in fact, there is a war, and therefore the pipeline that supplies gas from there is a supply uncertainty for Hungary. We agree, however, that the government's primary objective, the government's primary goal, is to ensure security of supply, that everyone, when they open the frying oven, has gas in it, and to do so, we must somehow bypass the Ukrainian pipeline. [[13.50]] At the same time, and in this I would like to deviate a little from the general opposition speeches, the fact that we have to decide on this is, to a lesser extent, the fault of the government and, to a large extent, of the European Union's wrong energy strategy. The fact is that this pipeline is a very old plan for certain Member States of the European Union and for Russia. We also say that the Serbian pipeline we are extending from Hungary is owned by Gazprom, it is because the Nord Stream 2 has been realised in the past period; the Nord Stream 2 is the statue of the double standard of the German-led European Union, which is outrageous that it could happen in itself and what the former Polish Foreign Minister called the Molotov-Ribentrop pipeline. It is this pipeline that will bring Ukraine itself to a state of bankruptcy, as a significant part of the cost of transit falls from a country that is currently at war with Russia. Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó is right when he says that the 2nd authorisation of the Nord Stream at EU level and at the same time the non-approval of the South Stream is a double standard, but at the same time I would like to point out to my fellow government members that Hungary had previously opposed Nord Stream 2 and that it was a part of the ten-region countries, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán signed the letter that opposed Nord Stream 2 with ten regional countries, while Vladimir Putin had already supported this pipeline during his recent visit to Budapest, so it should be said for the sake of the Protocol that the Hungarian Government has amended its position in this regard. The fact is that the EU's energy strategy, adopted by the People's Party and the Socialist-liberal Grand Coalition in the previous European Parliament cycle, said that the aim of the European Union is to diversify energy and reduce dependence on fossil energy by Russia. Let's face it this way, since we are here, neither the Nord Stream nor the South Stream reduces the energy dependence on Russia, because although the pipeline comes along a more diverse route, the gas molecule itself remains Russian in this pipeline. So this does not reduce Hungary's energy dependency. This reduces energy uncertainty in a war situation, this part is eligible, but the need to do so means that the dependence on Russia has not decreased. I understand that there are international aspects in this, and I understand the logic of saying that the sanctions policy must be followed by Hungarian apple producers, but in the meantime, the French export propellers to war shipments, this is a double standard, and I understand that, but the alternative is not to reduce energy dependence. There is only one way to reduce energy dependence, and this is renewable energy. One of the advantages of renewable energy is that it is in Hungary, and because it is in Hungary, it could be the energy of national independence, it does not depend on Russians, it does not need Russian technology, and therefore it is not only a green hippie idea of the world that we love wind power plants and solar power plants, and these are such beautiful things, but it is basically one of our national independence. Let me tell you two things. One of them is that the end of this pipeline we're discussing is a bit oddly formulated at the beginning, but anyway, the beginning doesn't necessarily have to come from Russia. He also had an alternative plan that would have come through Azerbaijan and the Black Sea, which would have been the Nabucco pipeline. It didn't come to nothing. There are also world political considerations as to why this did not happen, but did not happen. What hasn't become anything yet is the LNG terminal that would have brought in natural gas from Krk Island to the Croatians. There has still been nothing, in fact, from the Romanian gas, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has raised as a major energy-diversive gas source; to date, although we have announced several times, a lot of things have been signed by everyone, no real gas has come. There are international political aspects in this, too. All I want to say to the honourable majority of the government and the secretary of state is that it is always possible to refer to why there is nothing but Russian gas, and it is always fair to say that the Russian and German industries are intertwined, it is possible to say that the French are breaking the sanctions, all of which can be said. But the end is ten years from the Orbán government, ten years from now, the Orbán government is back, and we're just as dependent on the Russians for gas. I understand that the Prime Minister and the Orbán government cannot distort the fundamental facts of geography, that there is gas in Russia, and I do not understand it here. But let's not pretend that in ten years something from these three alternative routes couldn't be developed so that the only diversification modification that the government is bringing in shouldn't be something from which the gas is also coming from Russia! So, overall, we believe that this bill also shows the need for the Hungarian green energy revolution; I also think that the fact that we are talking about it now is a mere indication to the leadership of the European Union that the certificate of poverty of the Juncker Committee is this way we are talking about it. The Juncker Committee was finally voted by Fidesz and even put in for sure; so we are talking about the shame of the Juncker Committee, in which Tibor Navracsics, who had relatively little to do with the LMP, has relatively much to do with Fidesz, so the fact is that this is their poverty certificate. And even though they can refer to legitimate things from the government side, let us at least agree that it is sad that after ten years of Orbán government, we are trying to diversify Russian gas with Russian gas. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2020-02-25-97	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-02-25-98	Thank you for the floor. The question should be raised as to how Hungary could have changed the Russian, partly unilateral gas supply and gas supply against the European Union itself or differently. I don't think we've had much of an opportunity to do this on our own. If this is someone's failure, then the European Union and its leadership are failures. By the way, the notion that the Nord Stream or Nord Stream 2 should not have been allowed because, where appropriate, we are putting Ukraine in such a position that transport can be replaced through it is a rather strange, specifically political reason. Because if I am talking about what the security of Hungary's gas supply requires, then I must take note of the strong conflict between Ukraine and Russia, it is very difficult for us to change its sharpness; and if we take this into account, we should also note that the alternative route is also helpful in this situation. By the way, the alternative route of Russian gas had nothing to do with why this LNG terminal had not been built in Croatia for ten years. Secondly, why it has not been built, and the European Commission would now support Norwegian gas by EUR 250 million. So the question, and here I am honestly saying, is that I am looking for the government's playing field, assuming what I could have done, what Hungary can do in order for Norwegian gas to come here. Only within the framework of the European Union, which is where we can represent and achieve this. [[Dr. László György Lukács is replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] So much about green energy that we can't replace it in everything, that's why we need gas turbine power plants. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to be able to enter during a given period if these renewable energies do not provide it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2020-02-25-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I did not intend to comment on the subject originally, but Congressman Ungár made me speak, because it takes hundreds of communication feats and tricks to make the failure of the Krki LNG terminal, the extraction of the Romanian gas field or the Nabucco pipeline a mistake of the Hungarian government. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] However, it is a bit... We have done everything, we have signed every signature to do this, we have bought a share in the LNG terminal, we have concluded all agreements that if liquid gas arrives there, then Hungary should be the first to know... Last week, Parliament voted in favour of the agreement with Qatar, Qatar is known to be the world's leading LNG exporter, so everything is ready for us to receive liquefied gas from there as well. It is not our fault that this was not built otherwise, as we would otherwise be ready for a much closer, much more economical, much better solution, to extract the black sea gas field; again, it is not up to us to do so, but to the owners and the property debate there and the various production disputes, so it should not be our fault. Another, I feel that the government is on the right track when one of the biggest criticisms of LMP is that Hungary has given a Commissioner to a European Commission. [[14.00]] So, if these criticisms, I feel that we are on the right track, even if we disagreed with many of the decisions of the Juncker Committee. Just as all EU Member States, Hungary, have delegated Commissioners, this has been the case and will be the following, but thank you if LMP can accept this as a criticism. From here on out, if this is all the criticism, then you can vote in favour of our proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-102	I am very pleased with this debate, because then let us speak openly. It is not the responsibility of the Orbán government to implement these projects, nor do I claim that it belongs to the Orbán government, but let us say whose responsibility it is: Russia's responsibility. It is Russia's responsibility that in Croatia, in other ways, I think that many people in the government could talk about how it was achieved that the LNG terminal was not being built or what Russia was doing in various service or other ways, or what it was doing in order, for example, to prevent Nabucco from coming in an alternative way. So the fact that, within ten years, Russia has achieved that we can talk again only about a gas pipeline in which they are putting gas molecules, I think it shows that Russia has not always acted in a friendly manner with Hungary in terms of energy policy, once again in a euphemistical way. And this statement, if there can be consensus between the two of us here, we will be able to bring this statement up again and again in the debate on Paks II or in the debate on other energy policy. Russia does not historically look to Hungary's interests in energy policy, and it has not seemed that this has changed in the last ten years. I would like to say to my fellow Member Balczó that it is not only a problem if Ukraine goes bankrupt because it is a political problem. I, if I were to quote Viktor Orbán out of 99, could say that Hungary's primary interest is an independent, strong and territorially united Ukraine, because we have no interest in Ukraine, and Russia is the neighbouring country, because it has been, and it has not been good. Therefore, it is not good for us if Ukraine goes bankrupt because of bypass gas pipelines. I understand that there is very little room for manoeuvre for the government here, but at least let us not pretend that this bill is a celebration of diversification, and now we have solved our problems with gas supply. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-103	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-25-104	Thank you very much. I was also moved by a comment from our fellow Member Ungár to press for a two-minute period, especially now this is the second time when he explained that Russia is not looking out for Hungary's interests. Of course not. I don't think anyone thought that Russia... [[Péter Ungár: So we agree on this at least.]] That's right. However, I would also like it if we were not talking about Ukraine here in the Hungarian Parliament, and we were not talking about the fact that Ukraine might go bankrupt there, that it could not look for us. This is the Hungarian Parliament, not the rada, so as a result we must look at the interests of Hungary. The Hungarian interest is to have heating in Hungarian households and homes. I know that LMP remembers everything like Morica, in this case green energy, wind and solar energy. [[Péter Ungár: This is the party!]] But as an engineer, let me say with great respect that there is no place in the world where flats are heated with wind energy and solar energy. So the solar collectors might be somewhat, in our climate it is not possible. [[Krisztina Hohn: There is not only solar and wind energy.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So we do need gas, and we also need nuclear energy, we need a healthy energy mix, which has a huge and important role to play in renewable energies, the wind, the sun, but it's just not going to work out. So I would ask everyone once again to address this issue in its place, and now not to mention why the Hungarian government is not building the terminal in Krk. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] That's right! Why the Russians are blocking Nabucco, we don't really have any influence on that. We have a growing influence on the need to create energy security in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, I welcome my fellow Members. We will continue the debate. Now we have two-minute comments. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask my fellow Members that they would like to take part in the debate with a proper speech. (No one's reporting.) I don't see any contact. Then the general debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Perényi Sigismund Peter, as Secretary of State, if he wishes to close. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-106	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the most important thing for us is not to celebrate, but to ensure security of supply in Hungary. That's the most important thing for me. Thank you very much for the speeches, because the government is indeed doing so. The LNG terminal is being built and the Hungarian part has already been built from the Hungarian government and Romania to the Romanian gas pipeline. But, as Members have said, it is not just the Hungarian Government's fault, or the Hungarian Government is not the only one who can add to this. For me, it's about being safe, diversifying the distribution, and so we're doing everything we can. But now maybe we should get back to this bill. This is also a strategic issue for our country, and we therefore support all investments that help to diversify the country's energy supply. This agreement is necessary for the start of construction work, and the bilateral framework is added. The agreement guarantees that there will be no disruption in the construction and technical maintenance of the gas pipeline due to cross-border investment, clarification of the issue of permits, coordination of border crossing rules and security issues. Without the publication of the agreement, the implementation cannot begin, which is of strategic importance for the energy supply of our country. The issue of gas purchase or operation is not the subject of the proposal presented to this House today, but it is a necessary condition for our country to be in an even better position and for its energy exposure to be reduced. The present proposal is necessary for the implementation of our country's energy policy strategy, whose primary objective, repeating myself, is not enough to emphasise the diversification of supply. In view of this, I ask this House to accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-107	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear House, There is a general debate on the bill amending certain laws necessary to combat the exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings until closure. The government referral is T/9280. The IT network of the House is accessible to all of us and interested parties. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When a child sells himself on the street, it indicates a serious and deep problem with the child's environment, social situation, which is necessary to monitor closely and be treated with special child protection care. The T/9280 in front of you. This is why the purpose of this bill is to protect children from sexual exploitation and to provide them with special protection. The government is committed to protecting children's rights and therefore takes decisive action to ensure that all children are truly protected and cared for for for their proper physical, mental and moral development. It is therefore one of the most important elements of the proposal that people who are not 18 years of age who offer sexual services are not criminals, but victims of prostitution and related phenomena who require special protection. Furthermore, the proposal expresses its commitment to stricter penalties for child prostitution offenders. A child who has become a victim of trafficking in human beings and who engage in prostitution needs serious, special and professionally sound help, such as children who have become addicted to psychoactive drugs. It is evident that a child does not choose to be a prostitute on his own initiative, but is put in this situation by the people who exploit him. In other words, volunteering is simply not acceptable as an explanation for a child in prostitution, even if all stakeholders would make it convincing and consistent. It can easily be that the child himself is not aware that he is a victim, or even feels like a victim, and even if the compulsion is not spectacular: he is motivated by material possessions or by an addiction. [[14.10]] Just because a childhood person is not directly and indirectly threatened or forced, such as abuse or sexual violence, does not mean that there is a lack of vulnerability. Child prostitution is a clear warning that the child is raised under inappropriate conditions and that the possibility of healthy physical, mental and mental development is not guaranteed. These cases should be immediately examined and action taken in the interest of children's rights. Not only international legal documents on trafficking in human beings, but also common sense dictates that a child engaged in prostitution should be given a higher level of protection, i.e. a level of protection appropriate to the victims of exploitation. It is the responsibility and duty of the State to ensure a firm, transparent and effective response to exploiters who deal with man and, in particular, the child. The government is not afraid to fulfil this task and, by means of the proposed legislation, it is taking an important step to ensure the protection and care necessary for the development of vulnerable children. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before you proposes to amend four laws in order to achieve these objectives: to amend the provisions of the laws governing the protection of children, the fight against organised crime, the subject matter of offences and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The proposal treats children who are forced to prostitution not as offenders but as victims of trafficking in human beings. In their case, although all forms of offering to sexual service continue to be prohibited, violation of this does not entail any infringement of the law. On the basis of the bill, children in such a vulnerable situation are not held accountable, but placed under protection. In this context, the police will play a central role as it will be responsible for launching the specialized child protection system within the framework of the new general protection measure. Children who are victims of child prostitution are no longer subject to infringement proceedings by the police by adopting the bill, but are immediately placed in special and safe children's homes that are best suited for their protection. During the maximum 60 days of accommodation, the guardianship authority shall examine whether the child's upbringing or other guardianship measures are necessary for the protection of the child. A further central element of the proposal is to increase the burden of non-compliance, partly to put it on a new basis and thus to increase the protection of criminal law against the environment that exploits children. By enforcing a strict criminal policy, the government amends the criminal case of trafficking in human beings in the criminal code, tightens criminal action against sexually exploiting children, and continues to consistently enforce its victim protection policy. By tightening the penalties, it is also expressed that trafficking in human beings is a fundamental violation of human dignity that makes it appropriate to isolate perpetrators from society for a longer period of time. Thus, the first basic case of the crime will be up to five years in prison instead of three years, and the second basic case will be a crime threatened with imprisonment for up to eight years instead of five years. The new legislation on trafficking in human beings provides for sufficiently comprehensive and flexible rules to ensure that exploitation can be found not only in the sexual field but also in other activities, particularly those of a working nature, thereby ensuring more effective and stricter action against all exploitative activities. The proposal clearly states that the use of the vulnerable situation for any purpose is punishable. Therefore, it is unjustified to treat forced labour and forced labour as a separate act. The exploitation of the victim may be targeted at any purpose, whether work, work or even illegal activity. These objectives may vary in time or even arise in parallel. In reality, however, everything cannot be relevant in assessing the threat of the act to society, so the proposal provides for all forms of exploitation, including forced labour, to be punished in a uniform manner within the framework of human trafficking. Among the aims of exploitation, the proposal prioritises sexual exploitation and exploitation for organ trafficking, which may have serious violations of the integrity of human life and even irreparable consequences. Accordingly, exploitation for this purpose is more severely penalised by the proposal. On the basis of the proposal, it becomes more pronounced that persuading a person in power to exploit him, for example, prostitution is just as serious a crime as forcing him to do so by force. This means that physical violence is not necessary to protect vulnerable sections of society and to severely punish those who take advantage of it. Effective action against trafficking in human beings will be completed through criminal evaluation of all human behaviour conducive to the maintenance of vulnerable situations. It is therefore necessary to punish a person who benefits from the activity of a person placed in another's position, whether it be sexual or any other kind of work or activity. The condition of this is, of course, that the exploiter of this type is aware that the victim is also a victim of trafficking in human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, on the one hand, the proposal, by amending the Child Protection, Organised Crime and Violent Crime Act, clearly states that children who offer sexual services are not offenders, but victims of child prostitution, who require special child protection care. On the other hand, by amending the criminal code, it will allow more effective and stricter action to be taken against the perpetrators of human trafficking and forced labour, as well as against criminals who sexually exploit the child. On the basis of what has been said, it is clear that the proposal intends to support and protect from the legal side the fight against trafficking in human beings and its victims with a comprehensive approach. I am convinced that the regulatory objectives presented by the proposal are all of our common objectives, which is why I call on the House and the honourable Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Kovács, who is speaking here on the stand. I'll wait for Congressman to wake up on the stand. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-110	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The T/9280 in front of us. Proposal No 1 aims to protect juveniles from sexual exploitation by more effective means. It is therefore necessary to amend the existing Hungarian legislation in line with international practice such as the New York Convention or the Council of Europe Convention, as well as other EU legal requirements, both for the recognition and protection of the role of the child as a victim and for the purpose of making criminal law action more effective. Currently, if an underage between 14 and 18 years of age realizes the facts of illicit prostitution, he can be held liable for violation and punished for 30 days of detention. Dear Parliament, According to the recommendations of the European Union and the Council of Europe, it is appropriate to repeal the legislation allowing children to be involved in prostitution to impose an infringement penalty. It is therefore appropriate to establish the relevant legislation in such a way that all children involved in prostitution are regarded as victims or suspected victims of trafficking in human beings rather than as perpetrators. Protecting the best interests of the child is the primary priority. The proposal before us also sets out four main directions for the Minister of State's expozee. On the one hand, the fixing of the ban on offering offers, the second in the case of the exclusion of an infringement to date, the third in the case of the development of a child protection institution system and, finally, the strengthening of the criminal instrument system. [[14.20]] Thus, the amendment submitted introduces a general ban on offering such a service, but it does not envisage an infringement penalty in the event of a breach, but proposes a child protection measure. In order to increase the effectiveness of criminal law action, it is necessary for the legislator to define more precisely the substance of trafficking in human beings for exploitation and the legal concept of vulnerable situations. The fight against trafficking in human beings can become even more effective if we place this activity, all those who take advantage of the victim of human trafficking, within the scope of criminal law. Sexual exploitation of children is criminologically similar to trafficking in human beings, because it typically forms the same process, so the punishment of related crimes must also be aggravated if we are to reduce the full criminological phenomenon, in my opinion and in the opinion of our group, to a greater extent than that contained in the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal rightly provides that it is necessary to lay down, at legislative level, a ban on offering in an active and passive manner, both by an oral invitation not to 18 years of age or by a referral to it, which is no longer an infringement procedure but is the basis for a child protection measure. It is therefore proposed to be introduced as a new ground for non-criminality if, at the time of the offence, the proposed person has not yet reached the age of 18 and the proposal clearly states that, in the event of the new grounds for refusal, the general protection measure introduced into the child protection system should be mandatory. Thus, the State cannot remain inactive when it comes to the best interests of the child. A child who has become a suspected victim of trafficking in human beings will now be considered a child with a special need for care, for which the development of a child protection institution is important. Therefore, the victim should be transported immediately to a safe, secure care facility, a special care centre. Within the framework of the general protection measure as a new legal institution, the police place the child concerned in a child's home under the rules of temporary accommodation, regardless of whether he has been raised in a family or is temporarily placed or raised. The accommodation may last for a maximum of 60 days and can be carried out immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to strengthen the criminal law instrument system, the proposal intends to amend the existing rule of the Criminal Code in two directions. On the one hand, the legal facts of trafficking in human beings are amended in such a way that the essential elements of the exploitation process, such as the purpose of regular benefit, the victim's subjugation of power or the influence of violence and threats on the willful ability, are clearly developed to assist in the application of the law. In the future, forced labour will be absorbed into the human trafficking situation, given that trafficking for exploitation covers its criminal behaviour. As a new M.O., the proposal punishes the act of a person who, knowing that the victim is a victim of trafficking in human beings, still uses it. Another aspect of the amendment to the Criminal Code envisages the seriousisation of other crimes based on child sexual activity. In this context, the promotion of fences and prostitution for children and the exploitation of child prostitution, in the opinion of the faction, is not strong enough. We believe that this needs to be stepped up. With the rules of the proposal on the House's table, we hope that the person under the age of 18 will not be at risk of sexual exploitation seriously hindering his further physical, mental and moral development. In view of the objectives expressed, which Mr Secretary of State has just described as the position of the wallet and the government, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal tabled in addition to a stronger increase in penalties. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-112	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I've been telling you a lot lately that Jobbik is always on the side of order. He's been standing on it since 2010 since he was in the Parliament, and he's been standing in front of it. With this I have already foreseen that, since this is also a step forward, this proposal is supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We support it, because the goal is already very good, protecting juveniles from sexual exploitation, that those who are not 18 years of age who offer sexual services are not criminals, but victims of crime. It is very important to state this, and we can fully agree with that. This is a very good starting point for us to negotiate this law. Indeed, what we can do is very important. What can we do? because it is a very old problem in Hungarian society, and it is very powerful. The problem is that action is difficult. There are a lot of reasons I'm going to come up with. But it is very good that there is already a proposal for a solution here, namely the provision of a home providing special care. If such a child is found, the police can order it immediately for 60 days, without the consent of the guardianship authority, without the decision of the guardianship authority, the police can do so themselves, and can do so to take him into the special children's home for up to 60 days. And it is true that it does not matter that he has come from another home, is in a state-care home, or is in a family, but he will be taken out of his surroundings, and he will be placed in a special home. When can this be? Obviously, when a child becomes a supposed victim, he will be admitted to this special children's home, and regardless of the decision of guardianship, this decision can be implemented immediately. It is a very important innovation in this bill that it is not possible to punish a perpetrator who was not 18 at the time of the act because of a violation of the ban on the provision of sexual services. He is not subject to infringement proceedings, and he can only be heard as a witness in the course of the proceedings. It's already grounded that we're not talking about a perp, we're talking about a victim. It is very important that we judge this and that is why we need to take protection measures. In order for this to be fully effective, the Criminal Code must also be amended and appropriate. And indeed, as we can see, there are more serious penalties than in relation to trafficking in human beings, or they may be imposed later, since, in general, in the case of imprisonment of 0-3 years, there are 1-5 years, up to 1-5 years, 2-8 years, and the rest of these, which are always more serious, can be imposed for these crimes. This is very important to have the necessary deterrent force, the necessary deterrent force. [[14.30]] It is an important task to prevent children, juveniles, from being absorbed by the underworld in Hungary by this legislation and others. Unfortunately, thousands of children disappear every year in Hungary. One third of them will be found within a very short period of time, usually within an hour or two. The other third will be found within a few days, and most of the third will be found within a month. But there are children who will never be found; and it is not certain that because they have been victims of the most serious crime. In fact, this 100-150 children who disappear so often become victims of sexual exploitation. Why would that happen? In the past, there have been professional contradictions and disputes about this, even in his assessment that the victim or perpetrator who sells his body is a victim under 18, whether a child voluntarily or coerced into prostitution. Because there was a view that said, of course, why not volunteer. Here we are also getting an answer to that in this proposal. Then is there a need for an independent action plan on this subject? This fight against child prostitution is very difficult, because there is little inter-branch cooperation on this subject, there has been a lack of and controversial legislative background, the competence limits and the minimum signaling limits have not been properly clarified by the system so far. The lack of knowledge of effective methods was also a reason, and then there were reasons for structural errors in the system. This affected the region of North-East Hungary the most in Hungary, where the proliferation of crime related to it was the most widespread. This has been affected by many things, such as what we have discussed here many times since 2010, is our loan shark. During the usury, when some families become completely vulnerable, often they are unable to pay with others, they try to repay or reach a deadline by offering an eleven - year - old girl within the family. But they're not the only ones with a problem. The problem of children growing up in public care is also very serious, as very often people who knew the state's guardians where they were on leave, in their spare time. They're standing on the street where prostitutes usually stand. One huge problem is that in this case, a lot of people closed their eyes, turned a blind eye, did not want to deal with it, and indeed, this grew more and more in Hungary. So, on the one hand, these children came out of the family and, on the other hand, from the public care system very often. Unfortunately, there are many issues and proposals for solutions on this subject, but are there adequate statistics, there is adequate data collection in this area, how credible can these statistics be? And then there are different enlightenment programs to avoid these life situations? Are there, or are there, reintegration programs? Do they exist? Is professional training good? Is child psychiatric care suitable in Hungary? This type of crime is very difficult to prove. Suspicion, no evidence. It's hard to grasp, and there's a lot of latency. Why? Specialized staff have formulated why. That's because the child doesn't dare. He dares not, on the one hand, because he is ashamed, and, on the other hand, it is often very strange to think about their situation, but those who are forced into child prostitution do not consider their bodies to be their own, but those who possess it. He feels that his body belongs to it, and he is destined to control it, and he does not consider it to be something he should be told. And very often a relative, very often a direct relative, is the one who forces the child to do so, and obviously the child will not testify against his own relative, relative, or family member in criminal proceedings, or will not report him as a child. Often, the child doesn't experience his runner as a victim, but considers him a family member, a lover, a man of trust, the only person he can hold on to. He feels that the only person he can trust, and the whole society and everyone is against him, and the only sure thing in his life is his runner, and it's also a serious problem that keeps the latency going, and we can't prove it. And then these kids get scared a lot. They are afraid because there are often organized criminals behind or between coercions, and they obviously have reason to be afraid of them. Another problem is that it also requires international cooperation, because they often appear in the world as part of criminal organisations that weave across Europe. This proposal has its advantages, it has its main advantage, its main advantage is that it offers rapid action, and the child becoming a victim can quickly enter a special child's home. Its disadvantage is what implementation will be like. Will he succeed in doing better than he has done so far, or will we walk in the same way as domestic violence, where we also do not find much solution to this problem, and we are not able to eliminate it as much as we have done? Then will the police have their special professional qualifications in this area, since they will now have, as a matter of fact, a new area of competence? Then what means can we use to move forward? We can see that complex tools are needed. The more serious punishment of coercioners, exploiters, beneficiaries could be one of the solutions contained in this bill. Then it is important to have information, a strong display of prevention, and the removal of the child's vulnerable situation, because this is usually the circumstance that most often puts these young people in this line. We need to build closer international cooperation, we need to set up child protection groups, we need to strengthen families across the board in Hungary, we need to establish an appropriate professional protocol, we need closer inter-branch cooperation, we need to tighten up the law on the demand side, and this is also a very important issue, and this law is also an answer, as it also raises sentences on the demand side. Unfortunately, as I was reading on the Internet about how it was done before, I found that the specialists said that the police often only cared about the prostitutes, not who buys their services. They didn't look at a 14-15-year-old girl sleeping with a grown man to take advantage of the prostitute's offer, they just watched that 15-year-old girl commit an offence, and so she takes her in, she becomes a detention, she's gonna be tried, and if she does, she's gonna get another punishment for it, while the one who used the service is graduating. Yes, this bill is a serious punishment, since it also provides for a imprisonment of 2-8 years. Another issue is that this has already been done, but it is a question of how they will use it in implementation. Then there is a need to improve training on issues. Improving child psychiatric care is also very important, improving victim protection. Trafficking in human beings, it is shocking that 15 percent of victims in the EU, i.e. victims of trafficking in human beings in the European Union, are children. I find this ratio shocking. And it's interesting that they're not just girls, they're four fifths girls, but a fifth of a boy who's involved in human trafficking. And yet another shocking fact is that 80 percent of the new prostitutes in the Alpine countries come from Hungary. So it is clear how much Hungary is affected by this problem. By the way, in Europe there are only Bulgaria and Romania, these two countries, which are more affected by child prostitution than all others and Hungary are preceded by them. What else is important? Eliminate extreme poverty and reduce early school leaving. And another shocking figure: 36 thousand people live in Hungary, according to some opinions, who were victims of human trafficking. This is a huge number, a huge problem, and it is only Romania and Bulgaria where the situation is even worse. It is our duty to find a better solution. This is also a step towards improving this system, and therefore the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2020-02-25-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Imre Vejkey, is next. He will speak here on the platform. I'll wait for Congressman, Deputy Group Leader, to come up here. [[It's happening.]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-114	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it is a fact that, on the one hand, because of the fall in the values of our world, and on the other hand, because of the material and technical development of our world, criminals and criminal organizations are increasingly and with more modern means to lure their victims, especially children and minors. Therefore, further protection is essential both for children and for minors. It is essential that we use preventive means to reduce the emergence of newer and newer forms of trafficking in human beings, which mostly captures the most defenseless and then preys and throws them away completely. As a Christian Democrat, I believe it is important for individual states to be committed to combating victims of trafficking in human beings, in particular the exploitation of child and juvenile victims. Ladies and Gentlemen, I fully agree with what was said in Mr Pál Völner's exposé and what was said in the keynote speech of my fellow Member Zoltán Kovács, and I do not wish to repeat them separately. Under the current rules, there is no legal prohibition on the provision of sexual services that persons under the age of 18 may not carry out such activities. Therefore, the main purpose of the bill is to establish this prohibition in an infringement law. Ladies and Gentlemen, Article 27 of the Violation Act. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 provides that minors may be punished on the basis of the facts of illicit prostitution. According to the Violation Act, it is a minor who is 14 years of age at the time of the offence, but not 18 years of age. The expert group on the fight against trafficking in human beings set up under the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, GRETA, recommended that it be appropriate to repeal the legislation allowing children to be involved in prostitution to impose an infringement penalty, and that police officers be instructed to consider all children, including those aged 14-18, to be victims and not perpetrators. Our current child protection system complies with the GRETA recommendation, but our infringement law does not. Therefore, this bill provides that, in the future, the infringement law should be a ground for non-criminalisation if the person who offers the sexual service is between 14 and 18 years of age at the time of the act. Of course, children who are under the age of 14 rule out criminality. T/9280. The other aim of the bill is, therefore, to replace the infringement procedure with the general protection measure introduced in the child protection system in the case of a 14-18-year-old offender. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the meantime, we need to establish that it's the Btk. 192. §2 does not clearly state for the application of the law the essence of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploitation, because the facts of the law do not contain sufficiently clear provisions. It is not clear that the vulnerable situation, independent of the perpetrator of trafficking in human beings, is in line with the legal situation. Furthermore, the legal situation is unclear because the concept of exploitation does not show the desire for durability, which is the essence of the whole process. Therefore, T/9280. The other aim of the bill is to make amendments in the Btk., in two directions straight away. Therefore, the bill amends the facts of trafficking in human beings in Btk, on the one hand, and on the other hand, exacerbates crimes based on children's sexual activities, thus making it a more serious crime to promote fences and prostitution affecting children and to exploit child prostitution. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, Christian Democrats support T/9280 on the amendment of certain laws necessary to combat the exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2020-02-25-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman. Madam Congresswoman will speak from her place.
u2020-02-25-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The proposal intends to respond to a real problem: combating child sexual exploitation by all means and methods possible. In no way should children be allowed to be exploited in any way, especially by combating sexual exploitation. We may be able to agree on everything that is before us, with the Secretary of State, with the speech of the pro-government Members, but we need to talk about why we have come this far, and what is causing this, that this law needs to be amended. In order to understand the topicality of the proposal, we need to look at the annual report by the US State Department on modern-day slavery, i.e. trafficking in human beings. The definition of trafficking in human beings used by the report includes child prostitution. The proposal itself follows a similar logic, so that although the title of the proposal refers to trafficking in human beings, the protection of children who have become victims of child prostitution is, in fact, the main component of the proposal. The aforementioned report published by the United States of America shows a devastating picture of the situation of child prostitution in Hungary. On the basis of previous reports, it is clear that Hungary's perception of the protection against trafficking in human beings and child prostitution has deteriorated steadily since 2010. It is worth noting that in 2007 and 2008, the socialist government of the time managed to act so effectively against child prostitution that Hungary was classified as the best possible category on the basis of the U.S. State Department's report, which, by the way, neither before nor after that, any government was able to do. And even though in 2009, we fell back to one lower category, the Orbán government still hasn't managed to get us up in this category. We are now on the same level as Iraq, Liberia and Sudan. It is worth comparing the evaluation of the actions of the last socialist government against child prostitution and the actions of the Orbán government against child prostitution. When assessing socialist governments in 2010, the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who wrote the report, found that the Hungarian government did not provide a high level of protection equivalent to that of Hungarian citizens, and that the state resources spent on the victims had fallen slightly compared to the previous years. [[14.50]] That's why we were listed from the best category to one lower. Compared to this, the 2019 report issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Donald Trump's Government is therefore not to be charged with left-wing bias at all. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] He paints a much more critical picture of our country. According to the report, assistance to victims, including children who are victims of child prostitution, is insufficient, sporadic and unorganized. The number of investigations, indictments and convictions has fallen considerably compared to previous years, but this alone does not mean a reduction in the number of cases, and most of the inmates have received only suspended prison sentences. Children's sacrifices are not provided with professional help at all. And one of the most brutal: 54 children were punished by the Hungarian authorities in 2018 for being a victim of child prostitution. All these 54 children were female children, and seven of the 54 children were imprisoned. They were punished and imprisoned because they were forced into child prostitution; therefore, the victims themselves. It is important to mention that precisely yesterday, my fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn, spoke about the fact that in several cases in Hungary, when we talk about domestic violence, the victims themselves were blamed, and the Secretary of State replied to the question that that is exactly what should be stopped, and that is what we are talking about here. It is also significant that child prostitution is being exploited, Btk. 208. In 2018, no judgment was issued indicating that the Hungarian State is more effective in dealing with abused children than in combating minors who exploit them. Moreover, the latter fact is not denied in the current proposal, since it is precisely because of these kidnapped children that it is necessary that the proposal regulates it as a non-criminal reason if the child is forced to become a prostitute. It is important to note that interestingly, in the reports of the Socialist Government in 2008 and 2010, it was not mentioned that we had children in prison because they were forced into prostitution. It should also be noted that children who have been involved in child prostitution as victims in prison cannot be awarded compensation under the prison business law voted today. It is also worth noting what are the personal circles that are most involved in trafficking in human beings and child prostitution. These circles: Hungarians living in extreme poverty, children living in children's homes, low-skilled Hungarians, Roma, single mothers, asylum seekers, children without parental supervision, we are talking about children under the age of 18 and homeless people. Public children's homes deserve a separate investigation. The report explains for a long time that the protection of children who have been victims of trafficking is inadequate, which means that children in public care have an extremely high risk of becoming victims, and the possibility of becoming victims again when they return to public care is high. The report also drew attention to the fact that the Hungarian government does not have a database from which there is a clear picture of the state of trafficking in human beings, there is a lack of uniform monitoring. Finally, here is a truly shocking example, which is a good example of the situation of human trafficking in Hungary. The report also highlights the case where disabled people have also been victims of trafficking in human beings, and they have been sexually sold abroad. This report is worth addressing because the 2020 report will be published in the summer, and as no significant progress has been made in previous years, Hungary has a good chance of reaching the worst possible levels of Iran, Syria and Venezuela. The report also gives further relevance to the fact that all the areas covered by the present proposal are included as advice in the report and that, according to the reporters, Hungary could improve the protection of children who have been victims of child prostitution if the government showed their will to do so. Unfortunately, the government has not adopted everything that the report has advised us to do, so the present proposal does not address the areas proposed by the report which aim to act more effectively, faster and more comprehensively in order to protect children who have become victims of child prostitution, which would require the government to transfer significant resources to the police or even to child protection services, which the government clearly refuses to do; here we are talking about the signalling system itself. However, the actions set out in this proposal are capable of achieving the objectives set in some way. The elimination of the criminalisation of children who have been victims of child prostitution is, in any case, justified and should be supported. In this context, the question is why it took years to wait for the Orbán government to find out that putting children forced to prostitution in prison is a bad solution, both professionally and morally unacceptable. Institutions designated by the government for children who are victims of child prostitution for rehabilitation purposes, special institutions are a good solution, and there are indeed the professional conditions that can help children to cope with the trauma they have suffered. However, there is one thing missing in this context in the proposal, and this is the basis for those new tasks. At present, it seems that the government wants to give extra tasks to these homes and professionals without seeing budgetary resources. This is because the proposal will clearly increase the responsibilities of designated homes. The homes designated by this proposal have been examined by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in a number of reports and assessed the quality of the services provided to children staying there and the need to ensure children's rights in an appropriate manner. Although the Commissioner's inquiries were fundamentally positive, in many cases it can be concluded that there are too many children in the treatment groups, more than the law could afford, and the reason for that was the lack of staff. This is why it was critical that the government should provide additional resources for the implementation of the law. The clarification and changes in the criminal code concerning the facts of trafficking in human beings covered by the proposal are also justified. It is to be welcomed that they wish to aggravate the criminal situation of trafficking in human beings, so that in the future it may not be possible for those involved to receive or get away with a suspended prison sentence. However, it is worth noting that the government could have discovered this earlier, and could have acted sooner, so that, for example, in the case of traffickers, the punishment would be so severe that they could not get away with suspended imprisonment. Therefore, this step is also eligible, but it must be said that it is too late. It should also be pointed out that, in part, what has been mentioned earlier, is that the present proposal does not contain any provisions on how they intend to combat or increase the detection of trafficking in human beings. This lacks the additional resources that can ensure this. Despite the criticisms, however, I have to say that we have a very important law ahead of us and we will support it from the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-117	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the Parliament's notary, who is next. He will speak here on the platform. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[15.00]]
u2020-02-25-118	Mr President, Dear House, We are in an exceptional situation where, on this occasion, we can not only agree with the intentions of the government's bill, but also fundamentally support the path on which the government started in this matter. We believe that this bill envisages the achievement of an important social objective by basically good means, so I ask that my further comments be accepted in this respect, specifically as proposals for achieving the common goal, and that this time, in particular, not as a criticism, there are plenty of other opportunities. Firstly, I would like to start by saying that, while we are fundamentally in agreement with these changes, we must, in the meantime, signal that this is only part of the problem's management. I would add that the government itself knows this, because in March 2019 it adopted a government resolution which has widely defined the tasks of government bodies in relation to human trafficking, the Minister of Human Resources, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, and the Minister of Justice. The deadline was 1 July 2019. We have found no evidence of what has been achieved from these government decisions, while in this government decision the government has decided on matters of such importance and has given tasks to individual ministries in such important matters as prevention, prevention, information. After all, we all obviously agree that the most important task in the case of trafficking in human beings or prostitution involving children is, after all, to prevent such situations from occurring. The most important thing would be to protect our children from getting into this situation. But there is also no information on what has been achieved from the creation of sheltered accommodations, the creation of escape buses, the techniques that would apply to the voluntary exit of such a situation, then the way to do so is to get help. We know that there are civil society organisations and ecclesiastical organisations who are working effectively in this area, but we do not see that the government side is taking a really serious step to this end so that those who want to give up this way of life will receive adequate help and protection. After all, it is quite obvious that there are vulnerable situations here where serious risks can come from those who want to escape from a child prostitution situation. It is also missing, and we do not see strong enough training for professionals, either child protection professionals, teachers, police officers or those working in the judiciary. It would be very important for these people to deal with such a situation in such a way that they can relate to a child or young person who has been the victim of such an act in such a way that it is professional and helpful. That is why we ask the Government to pay close attention to these additional tasks in addition to this legislation, to do everything in this matter with budgetary resources and professional work, or with the necessary further legislative amendments, in order to take further steps in the areas of prevention, reintegration and professional management. Returning to the concrete bill, it may be debatable from a legal point of view that the whole phenomenon of child prostitution can be dealt with in relation to trafficking in human beings, even if it is the argument of Mr Zoltán Kovács, in which he says that there are very similar crimes and very similar situations, which is partly justified, but I believe that this is not important or that is not relevant. What is important is what the specific measures are aimed at. We see that these concrete measures are basically right in terms of child prostitution, as they treat those who enter this process as victims and take measures to strengthen their protection on the one hand, and those who benefit from child prostitution on the other... and make it clear that we do not have romantic pictures here, sometimes we can read such articles, prostitution is always about the exploitation of women and, where appropriate, men in some way, their exploitation and their dependence. We are talking about victims, and we are talking about how these victims can be helped, and even more so in the case of children. It is perfectly clear, and we agree with the government's intention that their punishment is not the solution, but the solution is increased protection. In the case of those who, on the other hand, benefit from this situation, because there are people, either directly or indirectly, who benefit from these situations, but in their case, we find it justified to impose more stringent criminal sanctions and support greater clarity in the legislation in this area. What is it that we propose to reconsider the bill? Basically, I would like to mention two things. The most important of these is that the bill provides, otherwise rightly, that victims of child prostitution must be immediately placed under high priority protection for the rights of the child. We agree with this, it is very important that during the period during which the guardianship process takes place, they are also highlighted from the environment where they are exploited. What we disagree with is the solution where the government makes this type of care a task for special children's homes. A special children's home is a long-term establishment for basically other purposes. There may be some people who will really be justified in putting them in a special children's home, but not everyone who is otherwise included in this system, who is not even a child protection professional who brings them out of the street, let's say, for the sake of simplicity, he will not be able to judge what special care he needs. In addition, the special children's home system faces serious difficulties and challenges. There's a shortage of professionals, there's a shortage of institutions. Allow me to briefly quote that Foton is about to terminate a special children's home and move the residents out of it. So you don't have the special today... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What are you talking about?]] I'm trying to explain it to Congressman Nacsa because he clearly doesn't understand. So today, the special children's home network is not prepared to receive these children either professionally or in places. It would be more appropriate to establish a special, specific, indeed a different kind of children's home system for this purpose, a temporary home for this purpose only, where appropriate professional assistance is provided. I would add, because of their victimship, very often psychological, medical, and other care, these young people and their children need support. So we need a network of institutions that only deal with them. Unfortunately, we do not know from the presentation how many children are expected, how much they know what capacity is needed, but we think that this capacity can be created relatively quickly, I add, either in the state system or with the help of church and civil society organisations. So we propose, and we are going to propose an amendment to this, that the majority of the government should consider entrusting not special children's homes, but a newly created temporary children's home to provide this type of temporary care until otherwise the guardianship procedure is completed within 60 days. The other proposal, but there may be a misunderstanding, and if the Secretary of State soothes me, I am also happy to acknowledge it. We consider that while under the Violation Act 172. In its section, the bill decriminalizes the offer of young people, thus allowing the system to treat victims in a different way, while under Article 184. If we understand it correctly, criminalisation will remain in the protected zone, while, if we consider these persons to be victims, it is certainly not their choice to offer themselves in a protected zone or outside it. I ask you to reassure me that I am wrong, or, if I am not mistaken, to be a partner in finding a solution to this contradiction in this paragraph. Dear House, In summary, I can therefore say that we are in agreement with the fundamental concept of the proposal, and we can basically support both the fact that the bill sets out greater protection for victims of child prostitution and trafficking, and more serious and unambiguous criminal sanctions for its perpetrators. At the same time, we ask the government to partner in finding a suitable place in the child protection system and to be equally active in prevention, prevention, training and information as in criminal sanctions and the legal system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.10]]
u2020-02-25-119	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear House, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Krisztina Hohn. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-25-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, a bill that is really close to us, and the Group of the LMP will support this, because we can read very important things in it. The speakers before me have said many things, so it is not easy to comment at this time, because I can repeat almost the same sentences that the speakers before me have said to me. My opinion is that I would punish him more severely, even more strictly, so I agree with my fellow Member, who suggested this, because exploitation of juveniles is simply a despicable crime for which there are perhaps no words, and let us just think about when it comes to domestic matters, namely the fact that mothers and fathers are selling their children. I've seen it myself, that a 14-year-old girl was actually sold by her father to a man who was a foreigner, thought highly of as a pedophile, who then gave her four or five beautiful children, which, of course, is welcome, but the fact that she didn't even finish elementary school, and she already sold her father, it's terrible in itself. By the way, I think it's even more reprehensible if a parent does this. In addition, when I used to work in a home, there I met girls whose mother had taken them out at the time, they said, in Baranya, on the 6th floor, it was clear that this was a call for prostitution on the part of the mother. By the way, I think it is very right what many people have said that such a sacrifice is a child with special needs, because they are not adults, although some may think they are, but they are still far from being adults. What is worrying us a little bit, or rather, is whether there will be enough room in these already overcrowded institutions, or if new institutions will be created, because in many cases there is also a need for addiction management, even thinking about the different drug-related issues. I think that hearing these children requires special knowledge and circumstances, and it would also be very important to keep in mind that the police will be able to take action and, of course, can place the child in such an institution, but they will need to continue to involve experts. We looked at it and asked for data last year on how many full-time psychiatrists there are in the country: 45.25, of course, because of working hours, so there are also four-hour or split-time workers. According to the data, there are 16 counties in Budapest, four counties, four counties in four, five counties, one in Nógrád county, and 0.25 in the county of Nógrád, because of the part-time work, before anyone is happy about this sentence, and it follows that there are five counties in Hungary today where there are no children's psychiatrists working in public health, and this has not been communicated to the public interest data request requested by us. The social sector also has an ageing profile. More than a third of the workers are over 50 years of age, about 7.5 percent are younger than 30 years of age. The wages are the lowest, and the number of job vacancies in the entire national economy has been increasing since 2010. As far as we know, there are currently more than 3,500 vacant jobs in these social sectors, which is more than worrying. There has been a lot of talk about exploitation of children, which is very, very important, but is it very important to mention other new types of slavery or what we call it? or modern - day slavery, these types of acts, when humans hold their fellow human beings under undeserving conditions and, in fact, force them to slave for a little bit of food, so that they do not starve to death, or we have seen a number of cases of begging people out on the street, whether disabled people or severely ill people. And it is very, very, very important that we take appropriate action against organ trafficking as well. I hope that this is actually the first step, as many people have said here, and that in the near future we will be able to see even more legislative proposals that will point to further progress. I should also mention these so-called enlightening films here, that even more emphasis should be placed on whether through educational institutions or television, in these social advertisements to draw attention to them, so that the child can understand if he is watching TV, that it is not normal and it is not legal to exploit him sexually, for example. It is possible that there may still be children in families, and it is certain that it is not possible for them to be forced into such an act by parents, foster parents, against which they must act, and that the child can and dare ask for help. We're always talking about whether there's enough psychologists in educational institutions or not. Although the statistics are partly fulfilled, it may not be an appropriate service, as we know many places where, say, a psychologist, such as a school psychologist, may be able to turn to the child more directly if he is involved in such a case, but he may not be able to get there, or he may not know what kind of services he can use. So it would be important to create the opportunity to do so, and the greater the... so victim error is very, very, very fashionable here in Hungary, that we always think that it is the person who is forced to do certain actions under the circumstances, but this is not the case. And it would also be very, very important, which is also stressing the need to put even more emphasis on prevention, since it is much more expensive, I think that it is more expensive for the state to take action and therefore have different costs than if it places more emphasis on prevention. I would like to say so much more, and I really do not want to take up any more time, so that we once again express our support and hope that there will be more measures that are so widely eligible. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-121	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congressman Imre Vejkey asked to speak for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-122	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the prominent speakers of the opposition groups for their support for this bill tabled by the government, but for my two-minute push, it was part of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's speech as general speaker, which I need to respond to. The Congresswoman briefed the Honourable Parliament on a specific US Foreign Affairs report. This Foreign Affairs Report, according to the speech of the Member, criticises the Hungarian Government, among other things, and criticises the Hungarian Parliament because it objects to the judgments of the courts. I would also like to draw the attention of the congresswoman and the authors of the U.S. Foreign Affairs Report that Hungary is based on the principle of the division of power in Montesquieu, as is the practice of the Fidesz-KDNP government. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Therefore, in our country, the legislator, the executive and the judicial authorities are separated, so neither the government nor the Parliament has the power to influence court judgments. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[15.20]]
u2020-02-25-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone still wishes to respond or speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would also like to address Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for a two-minute speech, please.
u2020-02-25-124	I would recommend very briefly to my fellow Member Vejkey the words of János Lázár. It's worth reading! [[A voice from the opposition benches: That's right!]]
u2020-02-25-125	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. Not in this two-minute debate, but in the ordinary speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if you would like to keep a close. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to thank the factions for the unanimous support they have expressed regarding the bill. I'd like to go over a few things. Mr Gyüre to my fellow Member: not only in the case of physical violence, but also in the case of psychological and other influences. So this is a positive, I think we can interpret the proposal together. Secondly, compared to the pre-2010 period, my colleague Bangóné had such concerns. I would like to confirm that the same form of violation applied to this type of act that juveniles have, as it later did. I am very pleased that the U.S. State Department has a Hungarian voice here in Parliament, but in fact, the facts and the legal environment were the same before 2010. You may have had better press during the Obama administration, but it's not our fault. I hope that this will be a significant step forward in order for the legislative environment to really develop, focusing on the subject, resulting in an improvement in the situation of young people. My fellow harvester still had that paragraph. Of course, it does not apply to it, so it is virtually excluded from criminalisation in its entirety, and the whole protection applies to juvenile offenders regardless of their place. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now we have to wait for a moment, because I would have gone further, but the author is not here yet. [[Lőrinc Nacsa pointing to László Böröcz: Here it is!]] We have to wait for Secretary Balázs Orbán to arrive. Although he knows the law, so if the House does not object, I would like to give the floor to the author, and in the meantime, on behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is here, and the competent Secretary of State will take over the task as usual. Let's keep going, shall we? [[Intercoms: Yes.]] Thank you very much. A general debate on the bill amending certain laws in the context of investments in order to achieve the public interest objective will follow up until closure. Presentation by representatives of Máté Kocsis, László Böröcz Fideszes and Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP T/9283. The House's IT network is accessible to all of us and can also be viewed by interested parties. First, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. Just for the record, there are now two state ministers present in the horseshoe, so we can proceed without further ado, according to order. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to briefly say a few words about the reasons for submitting the bill before us.2019. On the evening of January 23, the University of Ráday Street of the Faculty of Studies of the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár lit up and burned down. Although the flames were contained relatively quickly, the college became virtually useless, and since the building was built in the 1980s and its iron structure was severely damaged, it was already discovered that there was no restoration. In fact, surveys have shown that the building needs to be completely demolished, and only a completely new building can replace the old one by setting up a dorm. The dormitory had 125 students, and fortunately, this night, because of the exam period, they were not in the building. In the tragedy, a 47 - year - old father with four children died, temporarily staying in the dorm's guest room. For the family of the victim and for the students who were left without a dormitory, several tens of millions of forints were collected by civilians, and nearly one hundred million forints were collected to rebuild the dorm. And the government has agreed to provide the remaining funds for the construction. So everyone immediately provided help in their own way: the church, the civilians and, of course, the government. Then what happened after that is completely incomprehensible to all good people. With the support of the left, Krisztina Baranyi, elected mayor in October, stated that she would not give a penny discount on the cost of using the public space for reconstruction. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] Even though one municipal committee approved a 50 per cent reduction in fees and the other one supported nearly free public use. This is how the case came before the body of representatives, where Mayor Baranyi actually proposed a 10 percent symbolic discount, and this was then voted for by the majority on the left. Ladies and gentlemen, This means that more than 100 million forints will be bought by the municipality or the municipality will be able to cash in from the public use fee, which was added to the donations of civilians and Hungarian people. Actually, that's the money the municipality's stealing. It is a shame that the left has come this far, because in a situation like this, without political affiliation, every sound government and every sober city leader does not create obstacles to the reconstruction of the college, but supports it by all means. And it is true that the decision of the municipality is about 30 million of the demolition, but the mayor clearly stated that neither the demolition nor the construction would be exempted from the public use charge, so the total amount could exceed HUF 100 million during the entire period of the investment. The construction was necessary because of the tragedy, so it is obviously not a planned municipal revenue. Thus, the bill amending certain laws in the context of investments aimed at achieving this public interest objective is intended to address, inter alia, this perverse situation. In particular, the bill would create the possibility, through the amendment of the Law on the built environment, to ensure that public use is automatically and free of charge in the period necessary for construction in the most part, i.e. more than 50 per cent of public investment in public interest. In other words, the municipality does not have the possibility to refuse, but the municipality can, of course, continue to regulate the conditions for the use of public land. The provision is not entirely new in the local government world, as the municipalities have already granted significant benefits in their regulations governing the use of public space: they could even fully release the fee if the public territory was used in a significant public interest. In view of the public-funded public-interest works, a significant increase in the budgetary expenditure involved is the charge paid for the use of a public area. For example, the investment of a medium-sized construction project lasting about two years could amount to hundreds of millions of HUF for the renovation of an educational or cultural institution. This may also be a significant item compared to the budget of the investment concerned. [[15.30]] Another advantage for the planning of the central budget is that investments in the public interest will become more predictable and cost-effective, as the planning of expenditure does not depend on the amendments to the municipal regulation and the automatic availability of public-interest permits will speed up the realisation of public-interest investments. It is important to point out that the proposed exemption may be limited, even in the case of investments aimed at achieving the public interest objective, to the extent necessary for the completion of the works, in terms of duration and area. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: At the end. Thank you.]] Good. Thank you very much. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Member Sándor F Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-25-130	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, As it is known, despite the efforts of police officers, firefighters and disaster control staff, the Ráday Street Reformed College has been completely burned out, and has become virtually useless. And in the unfortunate fire, a man died. Following the tragic incident, the government offered its support for the reconstruction of the college, for which additional offers were made. However, in recent days, it was reported that the Ferencváros municipality led by Krisztina Baranyai [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Baranyi!]] Krisztina Baranyi would collect more than a hundred million forints on this construction site. Since the construction is necessary because of the tragedy, it is obviously not planned municipal revenue. The charge is clearly an additional revenue for the municipality. This is proof of a level of profit-seeking which must be stopped once and for all. At present, the Franciscan leadership is not only helping the reconstruction, but also accusing it. Dear Parliament, The fee payable by the municipality for the use of public land is not new, its extent, reasons for exemption and discretion are regulated in the local regulations. In their regulations governing the use of public space, municipalities have already granted significant benefits, even if they have been able to fully release the fee if the use of public space was in a significant public interest. It is important to point out that, according to the proposal submitted, the proposed exemption from charges may take place even in the case of investments aimed at achieving the objective of public interest, to the extent necessary for carrying out the works, in terms of duration and in terms of territorial constraints. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, we propose that a narrow range of public-interest, central-budget works be exempted from the public-use charge, which would greatly help rebuild the burned Reformed College of Ráday Street. I believe that this noble objective can also be supported by Members. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-25-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The wind of October 13th is still sweeping that conclusion when we read this bill here in this House. We can see that the government could not reconcile with the will to vote, that the Hungarian people in countless cities and in the district of Budapest decided that enough of the Orbán regime was enough of the legislation that you are conning here in the walls of the House, and that it is simply invaluable, which is allowed in some cases, and you have chosen opposition leadership. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There is a systematic bleeding of the municipalities. You can smile about that. What's happening? If a draft measure comes up, you will quickly say that this is not going to happen, we have seen it at the ASP, we have seen it in order to reduce the powers and powers of the municipalities; it is nothing but a difficulty in the tasks of the local authorities, and it is an obstacle to carrying out the task. Over the past few days, two sources of revenue have been mentioned as wanting to cut one of them, one of which is the trade tax, and then Mr Tállai, State Secretary, here in Parliament, denied one of his replies last week that this is not true. We know that may not be true now, but sooner or later, in a few months' time, we will also see legislation that some of the business tax will also be passed by the municipalities. Now here we are, that you want to take the public domain charge away from the municipalities in some cases where there may be investments that they are entitled to under the current legislation. Yesterday at the Committee on Economic Affairs, I did not speak to him because I did not feel that I had the opportunity to speak because you said that because of the burnout of the college, which has been described in this legislation for a long time. Don't take people for a bird. Yeah, IX. district council, we're here, but that's not what the story is about. The story began on 13 February 2020, then discussed the IX. district municipality of Duna Aszfalt Kft. winning public procurements. the case at which the public access fee for the southern railway bridge parade area was decided. I believe you, you can swing your heads around here, just look at the dates. On 13 February 2020 the Ferencváros representative board decided that a company that would otherwise calculate a tax of 20 billion each year... I looked at the balance sheet data, and it seems that these fees could easily be paid. On 13 February 2020, I repeat, when the Municipality of Ferencváros decided to set a public usage fee of nearly HUF 150 million for the period from 2 March to 30 November 2020. The Danube Asphalt asked for a 99 percent discount. It is only citizens who have chosen the leaders of the municipalities to make responsible decisions, and this 99 percent discount is not a responsible decision. I believe that this is an investment in the highest public interest, that this bridge must be implemented, but that offers must be made in public procurement just in such a way that they are calculated. These records are public! From each municipal decree, the amount of public land use charges per square metre per day can be obtained. So this was the 13th. Then, on the 18th, you presented this bill, after the municipality finally set a 5-percent discount on this HUF 150 million public utility fee. That is what this legislation is all about. It's kind of sad and disappointing that you're putting it up for the burned-down dorm and a death. It's infinitely sad. That's a 2019 case, and now it's 2020. The decision will be made on 13 February and you will submit this legislation five days later. Mr Böröcz [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Now answer!]] Don't you think we should think that the Duna Aszfalt Kft., which wins public procurements close to the government, is in favour here? [[László Böröcz: I will answer.]] I thank you if you answer, because this whole story is simply transparent, and what I said at the beginning of my speech is that you are punishing the municipalities where the Hungarian people have decided that you have had enough of your robbery, that is enough of the system you are doing, and that is the income, the revenue from which the local authorities will be able to develop, that is what you intend to take away and to benefit the companies that are your friends. Of course, we will not be able to support this legislation.
u2020-02-25-133	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.40]]
u2020-02-25-134	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As one of the authors of the bill and as the lead speaker of the KDNP, I am now saying these few sentences about this law, but first I would like to thank Congresswoman Anita Potocskané Kőrösi for finally admitting after a long time that you have the victory against her in the districts of Budapest and Budapest. Zoltán Balczó, who sits one further back, has always denied your support for Gergely Christmas, supporting the Balliberal Mayors from the districts. [[Zoltán Balczó: He was not our candidate, we did not support him!]] It's happened many times. Now, at least in this regard, as we already know and have seen clearly, we have made clear the matter. That's...
u2020-02-25-135	Congressman, get to the bill.
u2020-02-25-136	Thank you very much. The answer to your question is very simple: no. What you asked: this problem was highlighted by the case of the Ráday Street College. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] And we want to solve the Ráday Street College with this bill. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I wish that was the case.]] Everything else you've brought up is, of course, an accusation, and it's not true. Congresswoman, take a look at the time you referred to who set the fire to what and when decisions were made. At the end of December, a decision was taken by the municipality of Ferencváros, in which they did not want to release this public use charge. Although my fellow Member was shaking his head here, Krisztina Baranyi did not want to let go of a penny of it at first, then there was a 10% discount on this otherwise nearly 200 million forints public utility fee for the current 30 million for the demolition, 10 percent was voted by the body of representatives, and the mayor wanted to give a zero-percent discount. I'm just telling you this for the sake of fact. We believe it is unacceptable and outrageous that Krisztina Baranyi wishes to profit from a tragedy in which a man lost his life. So far, in Hungary, it has been agreed that the construction and reconstruction of public institutions in the interest of the people is supported by all actors in relation to their potential, or at least not hindered, and is not trying to profit from the catastrophes of others. Krisztina Baranyi has now given up this previous public agreement and is trying to make it difficult to rebuild the Reformed College of Ráday Street, which was burned down last year, to prevent them from collecting more than 100 million forints or nearly 200 million forints of public land use from the construction site instead of helping. The current investment consists of state resources and private donations, since the Franciscan municipality did not think with a penny that, after such a tragedy, he should contribute to the college of such a prestigious institution from his own budget. This also shows the great attitude of the Ferencváros municipality to the case, that they wanted to collect more money from public utility charges than the reformed community, by the way, threw together private donations. Because 150 million forints of donations came together from private donations, of course the state will also support and help, but Krisztina Baranyi wanted to raise more money than private donations to the municipality, when this is obviously not planned in any way. My fellow Members have spoken about this before, since reconstruction after a disaster is never a planned revenue for a municipality. We think it's heartless and unscrupulous greed. Krisztina Baranyi is obviously trying to compensate for the failures of his mayor, instead of working in substance, it is a bad office atmosphere, reportedly one-man communication city management and non-progressive cases, secret contracts with no tender characterize the three to four months so far in the IX. Head of district council. The proposed legislation aims to ensure that investments made from central budgetary sources, which are of major importance to the public interest, which are closely linked to fundamental rights, can continue to be carried out without paying public access charges, taking into account that the investment carried out will continue to serve the public interest, i.e. the improvement of the quality of life of the population living in the territory of the local government, and, of course, will also contribute to the more efficient performance of the tasks of the local government concerned in the future. Annex IX is amended as follows: the district municipality did not take this into account. However, even in the case of investments aimed at achieving the public interest objective, in view of the autonomy of the municipality, the exemption will be limited to the extent necessary for the completion of the works, duration and territorially limited. Therefore, obviously, the false news that you and your press are spreading about how extensive, how long, what large areas the builder will occupy in any construction, is obviously false. This will take place here in as tight a time as possible, in the narrowest possible area, only within what is necessary. We find it regrettable that the bill before us is necessary at all, because no one had previously thought to sabotage the investments of a particular public interest, but experience shows that in our country, graduate communists always have another trick in their pocket to help prevent the development of our country. Of course, we support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-25-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-138	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The specific thing has been said, which is why I would like to look behind this phenomenon, and although I know it sounds silly, perhaps to carry out some kind of mission to open up your eyes about what the local government is and why you are in an amazingly bad way and in the wrong direction. Obviously, life and good God will straighten this out for once, but we don't have that much time until you guys can get this right in your head. The point is that there are many ways to reduce the autonomy of the municipalities, honourable Members and gentlemen. There have been many kinds of things in the past decades, to which I would deny, which is what socialist governments have sometimes done, but here you are amazingly crossing every line. Technically, there are two options. One is that we keep narrowing down the possibility from the source side, thus forcing it to effectively fail to meet the mandatory tasks of the local authorities. The other is continuous legislation and a reduction in powers. You are trying to show this to the outside world with the image of an effective state, and you are trying to cover this up with a constantly centralised public engagement in some way. In fact, you are trying to evacuate local governments that, being substantially closer to the people, may not always carry out central will. This is where we arrived, which was indeed the highlight of the previous opposition opinion, that this kind of opposition thinking or other thinking came to Hungary and to the major part of the capital on 13 October. You really think for a moment, believe me, we also talked at night, that perhaps, now comes a moment when Fidesz and the Prime Minister will say that we should sit down, negotiate, this is about Hungary, this is our country, we have told you so many times that this is a shared responsibility, a common task, these people have been elected, democracy is like this, let's sit down and talk about how this can be done well together. No! You didn't hesitate to take a tenth of a second to see that we must have taken all the whips from the drawer. And they've found a few more, and they've practically been snapping at it ever since. Some are also submitted, now one is here, and some are constantly circumscribed over the heads of local governments, practically, if you think about it, in all areas: taxes, theatres, powers, construction. Technically, how long has it been, I beg you? It's been two and a half, three months, and you've taken a significant piece of the local government's body again. It doesn't occur to them to say that we should talk about what our shared responsibility is and what our shared responsibility is. It is only in parentheses, and I note it quietly: if it is true that the cause of this kind of enlightenment with the Members of this Reformed College has caused this kind of enlightenment, how many times have you negotiated with the Franciscan municipality, let us say, whether it is the builders or you, that this kind of fair decision is being taken in a specific case? The second thing I'd like to say to you is that you are incredibly gravely mistaken if you think that public use is a punishment. This is huge and very, very serious, they have never dealt with municipal matters in their lives. The essence of the municipal work is that if someone in your settlement does a job, thereby hindering normal life there, in some respects affects the environment, then later the municipality will have to compensate for and solve these things, he will have to rehabilitate the merchants in the area, he will have to fix the roads there, he will have to deal with any kind of problems in some respects. Therefore, public use is not a tax, it is not a punishment. [[15.50]] Ancillary part of the investment was very well said by the congresswoman, which the investor has to take into account, because this is the reduction in her profits that she has to pay because she charged that region to make money. Let's put aside for a moment that, in this case, the goal is to build a subway, say, a building of a tower or the restoration of a burnt-out dorm. Let's put this thing aside right now. That's what public property charges mean. The reason why there are different equity options in the local municipal decree is because there the municipality has to consider what it thinks about the specific case. I note very quietly that, for example, in connection with the subway investment, I am XI. I was a district mayor, we calculated that we could have charged more than HUF 2 billion in public utility charges to the capital, but obviously we didn't, because we discussed it, and we tried to find a solution together. That's what I asked you about, how you talked about it. If you asked me and I was the mayor there right now, I'd obviously think you'd be here and you'd have to negotiate. But have you ever wondered what Kriszta Baranyi has gotten on her head in the last 2.5-3 months simply because she dared to beat this extremely excellent, sympathetic former mayor, who was very fond of her mother and her father? Honestly, I'm telling you, if you're in your place for eight to 12 years, and you're pushing people around like this, you're gonna have to think about the political thing. But let's put that aside, that's my personal and subjective opinion. I would like to say that you are in a very big misunderstanding here. In the specific case, I say that we look at how, in what way, a significantly more serious concession could be granted than the one set out in Annex IX. The district council has decided. I agree. There was a very amazing sentence here for Congressman Böröcz, either that or some sort of custom, or it worked that way, or it was some other kind of mistake that caused the municipality to steal the money. In English, is it true that if someone collected a public domain fee, it was stolen? You think it's the 9th. In fact, did public land use charges collected earlier in the district municipality or anywhere else become part of private property? Or what? The municipality has a budget, collects the money that is then used obviously according to the appropriate municipal regulations. Neither do we, although I would say in my heart that you are stealing taxes, so you collect taxes and then you steal them, because, in the end, if you look very strictly at it, you are not far from reality. What I would like to say to you is that I do not want to go any further on the words of the better Member, that, in this particular case, the horse's foot hangs out quite seriously. And as far as the principle is concerned, realize that you're going through a fundamental right that, according to our philosophy, a rule of law should recover in a way that's amazing. And then they're trying to put a screen in front of them, which, believe me, is so transparent that it's hard to protect or believe here in this room, to put it mildly. But I'm saying that everything can be done today, because Secretary of State Völner stands up and tells us that they are on the basis of the rule of law, after they said or voted this morning that a court ruling does not have to be carried out. So here, I think, of course, there could be a million things and the opposite of everything. I suggest this: you do the right thing if you take everything out of this law that generalizes and put it in the Reformed College. Or go to trial on IX. district government, and if you cannot agree with them, I guarantee you that I will vote that you will be halved by law, from here to Parliament, or that you will reduce this public use charge by 75-80 percent. I'll support this myself. But for every private investment, for every private investment with billions of dollars' worth of private investment, for the work done in the capital and public areas, don't pay any fees, I'm sorry, but this is amazing. Of course you can say here, Congressman Nacsa, but here you say it will be longer. It will be longer, because in the moment that there is no penalty for a job, in the moment that nothing obliges the entrepreneur to hurry, he will go there, he will do what he has to do faster, where he has to pay free, he will even store the things he has to keep paid elsewhere. Trust me. Why do you think private capital represents your precious and social Christian approach? We're gonna have storage on our streets. The streets of Budapest, the public areas where there will be this type of investment, will be machine storage facilities from places where they do paid jobs. Why do you think the market won't work without using this thing? It's incredibly risky what you're doing with this thing. There is one particular matter that, once again, I would like to confirm, accept. I don't know his background. I didn't tell him about the IX. District people, why they decided to do that, 90 percent. But the fact that they're trying to transform everything else in the process, again, I find it irresponsible and extremely risky. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Hajdu. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-25-140	Mr President, Magic words have been said, but with a few thoughts I would also like to contribute to the debate. I can't bypass October 13th because we're part of a series. If you consider how many times municipal regulations have become fashionable since October 13th, that's more than striking. I'd like a little inventory before I get to the presentation. There was a 80/39 T/39 amendment to the tax bill. This amendment of the law is clearly a serious blow to the capital city, because it means that if you want to include land in the interior, you have to pay a penalty tax of 80%. This means that Budapest is closed, Budapest cannot expand in its free business areas. This was therefore a hard-core measure against Budapest and the metropolitan districts. This has all been going on since the 13th of October. In Law 80/11, we labeled the division of resources, according to which it is strictly and primarily compulsory for the municipality to use the business tax on public transport. The subsequent law was called the Competitiveness Act. This was less relevant to Budapest, which gave a business tax reduction opportunity and a corporate tax reduction option, in particular in relation to wildlife damage and others. This also reduced municipal revenues. And there is also the law, which we voted on today, because in December we forgot to solve in the rush, and this is that the construction authority was taken away from the municipalities on 1 March, which will be transferred to the government offices, and from this point on, the building permit will become almost a notification obligation. We have to say that what the builder wants is built in Budapest, and what happens is that what the builder wants is not built. If someone has a problem, go to the courthouse, and the court is a certain second degree in which you may be able to prevent a construction that is either city-shattering or many other problems. And now I'd like to get to the presentation. I've listed all of this because it's another important step for the T/9283 objective of public interest... a long-term proposal on free public space, a bill. I am a member of the Reformed Church in Pestújhely, and I was part of this collection, but in the congregation I would not dare to say that in Parliament we argued that what we had collected with good heart and good intentions on Sundays at the service, I was part of a vendetta campaign here in Parliament, because we bought a revival in the 9th century. The mayor of the district, because there's a public domain charge. [[16.00]] In agreement with the speakers before me, especially with what was said by Gyula Molnár, the so-called task funding, referred to yesterday by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, has another leg that the municipality has a revenue obligation. Because you can't do the task funding any other way unless you have income. This income is to be put together from such small things. Of course, this is for free, for multi- or large construction projects, and I am afraid that the reconstruction of the Károly College is not in the background here, but, as has been said, I think that this is the Danube Asphalt, but mostly that this will be a lex law again against Budapest, against the I. district, where there will be huge constructions in the Castle, there will be very large public use now, and there will be, so lex I. district, lex inner districts, mainly internal districts, including Zuglo, where there will be significant constructions. This will mean that the legitimate revenues of these municipalities that have so far been, I think, both the investments in Buda Castle, the constructions in the city centre, the constructions in the City Park and much more, such as the construction of the Franciscan city, are saved by the burning down of the College of the Reformed Church. It does not include that this law can only be applied once, not to mention that this law has several other paragraphs. This is not only about free charging, but it is also about non-procurement procedures, if social do not know what 50 percent is won by tender, then there is no need for public procurement. That's what's escaped everyone's attention here. So we don't need public procurement for these applications. This means that if the municipalities submit a tender, but it is also written that this is just a goal, but at any time the objective can be modified by a government decision, so it can be extended, this is also included in this proposal. So there is a specific item here, which, I believe, violates the right to property to all municipalities and violates their right to revenue, and I must say that it violates the right of the Fundamental Law. By the way, the Fundamental Law clearly states in Article 32 (g) that the municipality is free to dispose of its assets and revenues on account of the performance of its compulsory duties. The public domain is a municipal property, so I feel that this proposal, which you have brought here, is also contrary to the Basic Law. So, overall, I think that anyone who feels a little committed to local government... let's take a look at where our voter, our population, appears at local governments. So we now regulate something by buying a reverend; in a particular case, let us accept that IX did not make the right choice. district, that you could have appreciated the requests, or maybe you could have done something differently there. I must add that, if it is regulated by a regulation, this cannot be resolved differently than that it might have been necessary to amend a regulation, and it may not have wanted to do so. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You shouldn't have!]] But it can't mean that it becomes a general rule, and from this point on, this Buda Castle, through the city centre, is the smearing of local governments everywhere. This means a withdrawal, a tribute to the municipalities, and a continuation of the laws created since 13 October. It is not supported, and the Democratic Coalition cannot support such a law. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice President István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-02-25-142	Welcome, good afternoon. Please address the speaker, Congressman Csárdi.
u2020-02-25-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us aims to ensure free use of public space for key government investment contractors. He acts as if the municipalities were profiting; he acts as if the municipalities were asking unfairly for money for the use of public land. Another shameful bill of Fidesz-KDNP lies before us: it is shameful, because it is based on a lie, it is shameful, because it is intended to be used as a lying embarrassment through the government propaganda, and it is shameful, because the foundations of the Hungarian administration, the municipalities and through it the citizens are being damaged. But let's get in line. I think that many of my fellow Members here are unaware of the facts and allow me to say these things. This bill was conceived in sin, since Mr.Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, launched the next communication campaign on his social media side. He said that the tragedy of the Reformed College of Ráday Street brought the proposal to life. This was confirmed by the pro-government speakers. But the truth is that we are not looking at this bill because of the reform work of the college, but because of Duna Aszfalt Kft. as the contractor requested but not received for free use of public land and for other priority investments in the government's plans. Let us not forget that the renovation of the Reformed College is not a priority government investment and, as such, this does not apply to it when the law is adopted. That is the truth, fellow Members. But Máté Kocsis continues his communication on this. He says that the reconstruction has just been made from small or larger donations, that it can start with a donation of some HUF 100-150 million. That is also a lie, ladies and gentlemen, because the backbone of the investment is provided by a state resource of HUF 5 billion, which is otherwise paid from tax forints. Máté Kocsis concludes by collecting a hundred million public utility charges for the IX. district municipality. Right now, that's a lie. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] A decision has been made in the context of the renovation of the college for a $30 million [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] in relation to the use of public land, so that this HUF 30 million is already included in the discount granted by the municipality. At the same time, I think it is worth noticing Duna Aszfalt Kft. the role of its owner, László Szíyi, because I will return to the government's investments in which he is involved. The owner of Duna Aszfalt, László Szíyj is the tenth richest man in Hungary, his wealth is estimated to be around 110 billion forints, and it can be shown that his fortune also began to soar after 2010. We can clearly see that László Szíyj owns 30% of the Public Machine, one third of the MKB, which he bought from György Matolcsy's cousin, but besides the tenders won, his NER binding is also proven by the fact that his company Duna Aszfalt út and Épépítő Kft. He has won a number of public procurements with Lőrinc Mészáros companies, and we are now at the point of setting up a joint company for railway construction in Bulgaria. It is a false lie, my fellow Members, a false lie to make any major investment appear as if it were done for the two beautiful eyes of the builders, the builders, the church or the state. With all due respect, these contractors make the same profits as any other market-based organisation; it is true that we know precisely that it is demonstrated that the profit margin for public investment is much higher than the average profit margin for the market. But at the end of the day, we know that neither Lőrinc Mészáros nor István Garancsi nor László Szíyi's wealth has been covered by the wind since 2010. But what's the real purpose if it's not? And I think it can be clearly demonstrated that the real purpose of this bill is to save billions of forints for NER's home-made contractors. [[16.10]] We know the list of planned priority investments. For simplicity and for the sake of László Böröcz, let us examine what type IX is. The government is planning priority investments in the district, and then we will see a list of, for example, the number one: the modernisation of the railway line and the southern Danube bridge. You didn't get the Duna Asphalt free public space license for this, did you? The reconstruction of the Budapest 3 metro, the H6 HÉV in Ráckeve, the H7 HÉV in Csepel, the new multifunctional sports and event hall in Budapest, the Southern City Gate-Budapest Student City development program, the Budapest Athletic Stadium, the Budapest pharmaceutical research centre Hőgyes-Schöpf-Merei. These are the planned government investments. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Terrible investments!]] Priority government investments. Not the renovation of the college, these are the planned government investments. So we need to be aware that they want free public use here, so that we are aware of the fact that the winning companies in public procurement are included in their offer, as they must include the public use fee. So that we know precisely that even if the House adopts this bill, it will not be less than a single forint, neither the structure of the college nor the renovation of the bridge, and I still think that I could continue the list for a very long time, in a way that is significantly greater than the scope of the speaker's speech. But so that we know that what costs one euro in Europe is at least, but has been, worse in Hungary as part of a government investment, but will cost at least 2.5 euros. And compared to that, I think: what are my fellow members of the government talking about? Because this is an example of the water vb, an example of this is the Liget Budapest project. Let us recall what it is, let us say, that questionable instruments have been used to remove all small-scale obstacles to these investments. Is it cheaper? If we remember the budget for the water World Championship, did it get cheaper with just one forint? No. It is true that it cost at least two and a half times as much as it did in the original plans. It is worth a moment to dwell on the amount of money that a municipality loses from one moment to the next, and allow this to be included in Annex IX. I'd like to introduce you through the example of a district. I made a calculation, which resulted in the need to use approximately 103 436 square metres of public space to make the investments listed above, and calculated on the basis of the regulation currently in force with the cheapest fee per month, taking into account the investment period, it is HUF 141 707 320. And it's calculated with the cheapest fee. And if an investment is planned for a period of one year and we are talking about large investments here, so it will be more than one year of investment, then it can be said that the Municipality of Ferencváros will lose HUF 1.7 billion by accepting today's draft. It is only one district in this country, one settlement, and we know exactly that there are nearly 3,200 settlements in this country. This amount, which will be lost to the municipality in the next 2-3 years, means HUF 28,000 per resident, from an infant to an old man. Which means it means more than 110 thousand forints per family. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is the amount of extra profit the government wishes to put in the pocket of its oligarchs with today's decision or the bill before us today. Yeah, 'cause we don't think that's where this ends up. I think that my fellow Members will respond to this speech in a very spectacular outrage, but the facts are facts, however much it hurts. Dear House, Why do municipalities need these revenues? Because, ladies and gentlemen, they bled out and made the municipalities impossible. Yes, the task financing system you so highly praised, examining some municipal budgets, shows the following results. The operation of kindergartens is a mandatory municipal task, about 55 percent of which is financed by the government in the task funding system, instead of 100 percent. The situation is similar in the operation of crèches, which is financed by the state by about 45 percent instead of 100 percent. The missing amounts should be compensated by the municipalities from their own revenues, i.e. from their development resources. The state contributes about 10 percent to cultural tasks, while it finances the performance of compulsory social tasks by 70 percent. Compared to this, I think it is no wonder that I think it is the strongest proof of the bankruptcy of the municipal funding system, that, although in 2015, the state took over the debts of the municipalities, under the leadership of István Tarlós, which cannot be accused of opposition, between the 15th and the autumn shift, so in about four years 70 percent of the debt accumulated by the Municipality of Budapest has been recreated. And, my dear fellow Member, if you shake your head, I will, if you like, make available to you the documents of the transfer-taking process that will justify my claim. [[Sándor Font: How many billions of extras were handed over?]] Debt... [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Do not mix the register with the debt.]] Hmm...
u2020-02-25-144	In order to avoid any misunderstanding, Mr Csárdi has the floor, and as a Member of Parliament only one Member bears that name, and consequently only you speak it. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-145	Thank you very much. So I think that regenerating debt perfectly justifies the unsustainable nature of the situation, and that the municipalities insist on their revenues. And I think it is no coincidence that even from your benches we hear indignation, for example, when it comes to reducing the business tax, you should remember the outburst of Mayor Cser-Palkovics on the subject. Today's bill draws funds from important and necessary investments and does so by creating an anti-government environment. I think you should be ashamed of this bill. I think that not only I personally, but of course the May Other Politics cannot support such a lousy, discrediting bill that affects people. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-146	Thank you very much. Dear House, It's time for Congressman Kocsis-Cake, the lead speaker of the Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am trying not to repeat it, with my fellow Members before me, and obviously with the opposition, I fully agree with the bill. It says here that the goal of public interest is achieved. I've rewritten the bill here for a NER-interested purpose. In the first place, it is once again a proposal from individual representatives that we do not have to go through with this discussion. I would ask the Fidesz Members that, since a new era began on 13 October, and the opposition parties were also given very serious positions by the voters in the municipalities, please be so kind that from now on all municipal bills, all proposals relating to the local government, will be included in seven-party negotiations. To agree with us, these parties will give us the mayor of dialogue, the mayor of dialogue in several places, yes, these billings must also be discussed with us, with the opposition parties, and not in such a sly manner to enter the parliament without any consultation. [[16.20]] The destruction they've been doing since October 13th is quite amazing. We could list, indeed, during these two or three months, the cases that have been brought up against the municipalities. I could list it from the theatre law through the support of museums, where the opposition-led municipalities, Pécs, Tatabánya, Baja, Dunaújváros were left out of the Kubinyi programme. I could continue by taking away first-degree building duties from the municipalities. Yesterday I interpelled about the local business tax, where they also came up with a proposal to bleed out the local government, and this is it. [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] My fellow Member Fidesz says it's stupid. On the one hand, I warn him that there are now very serious penalties for interrogations, and if the dignity of this House is violated, so be more careful not to be disturbed by his salary or banned from this Chamber. And I'm sure the other half isn't stupid, because your mayors, the mayor of Debrecen, the mayor of Székesfehérvár, told me, yes, that's stupid, but that's the stupid thing you want. So I'm sure it's not stupid to object to this in this form. But on this bill, you can call it lex Baranyi, but, yes, you can call it lex Naszályi, as many of these investments will also take place in District I. They're building the Treasury Department. This proposal is basically about the fact that these constructions are mostly carried out by Fidesz-near companies, Fidesz-entrepreneurs, mostly by Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, and here, in this case, László Szíyj, give them a discount. So they take money from the municipalities and give it to virtually the Fidesz entrepreneurs. By the way, that's a false reason. As Gyula Molnár said, there could be solutions that bridge this particular problem. It was not written on the bill that, let us say, institutions based on educational or social purposes, but, overall, all such public land use constructions and public purposes were nicely included. So that's false, what you're referring to. Again, it will be good for the people of power, because if this proposal is voted in favour, private constructions, small and medium-sized enterprises, simple hosts, so the non-Fidesz entrepreneurs will continue to pay. They're being sabotaged, and the Fidesz entrepreneurs, of course, aren't. So, on the whole, this proposal is really amazing. I'm sure the Dialogue Group won't support this. If you are replaced in 2022, all such anti-government and anti-basic law proposals will be withdrawn and changed. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-02-25-148	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, has applied for a speech. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-25-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have asked for the floor so that I can also hear the speeches by the lead speaker, so that I can respond to what has been said by the ladies and gentlemen of this House. At the outset, I would like to state that the government supports the amendment of the law before Parliament, and I have raised my voice primarily because I wanted to correct opposition claims in connection with the local governments and in connection with the government's self-government policy. For this reason, the story does not start in 2020, and it is my duty every time to draw the attention of opposition representatives to the fact that the story does not start on 13 October 2019 when opposition representatives have actually won municipal positions in some settlements. The story, the situation and crisis of the Hungarian local government, and its possibilities of recovery have been here to solve the problem with us since the change of system. It is no coincidence that the right-wing policy, which was put in the position of government in 2010, had to put the municipalities in order in the first place, because the municipalities had developed an unblessed state, which, by the way, was caused here by the leaders of settlements in opposition benches, partly by those in government positions, and they took responsibility in this sense. At the time, it was a system which, while at a legal level, laid down the tasks to be performed by the municipalities, but kept the appropriate funding within the framework of government policy, and, obviously, in the context of the general austerity policy, it played to practically bleed out the municipalities. This is why the municipalities were indebted between 2002 and 2010, and all municipalities, i.e. the Fidesz and the opposition authorities, were included. It is undoubtedly true, and it must always be said on such occasions that even in this critical period, the opposition-led municipalities, i.e. the liberal, left-wing authorities, were indebted, and the Fidesz municipalities were in fact better able to manage even in these situations. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Give yourselves a medal!]] But the situation hit everyone. Therefore, the primary task of post-2010 policy was to pull the municipal sector out of this debt spiral and from this unsustainable financing system. In the case of Budapest, this meant hundreds of billions of forints of debt, and at national level, the transfer of 1300 billion in debt to county and municipal authorities. Mr Csárdi may not, by the way, be the biggest believer in the task financing system, of course, his heart is to criticize this, but we have managed to establish a financing system and to restructure the tasks and powers of the local government, which has been operational for years. It is undoubtedly true that the arm wrestling between the government and the municipalities is going on on on the fact that the government has to support a given municipal task, which, by the way, is even mandatory, with exactly what norm, but what you have said, Congressman, is that it finances that percentage, that is a question of calculation. This depends on how we determine the financing, more precisely, the costs linked to the task. However, the fact is that since the entry into force of the task financing system, and the debt brake, i.e. since the amendments to the law to prevent local government indebtedness, the Hungarian municipal system thankes, works, it is able to carry out the tasks that the law identifies as a mandatory municipal task, and we have not heard very much about local governments and city leaders who have complained about it because it would not be a source of development, investment or freely elected municipal tasks. By the way, this is the purpose of the tax revenues of the municipalities themselves. So everyone makes it out of their own income, defines it the way they want it to be. So if Congressman Csárdi, in his constituency, the mayor of District I, says that she would like to perform something as part of a freely undertaken municipal task, let's say that she would like to paint the castle wall in rainbow colour, I think that we would not be happy to do so, but if you would like to do so. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There's a chance!]] , you will take it and raise taxes. And then the revenue from the tax increase, the local tax, can take such a nice policy step in his policy. So this is how this system was developed after 2010, and I would add to the honourable opposition representatives that it worked smoothly between 2010 and 2019, and to change the foundations of the system after the 2019 municipal elections, where, once again, a significant majority of the elected representatives of the local government were still part of the governing parties, this has not changed since then. Same system works. [[16.30]] And what do we see here every day, every week in Parliament? If any intention of amendment to local governments arises at all, or, as is the case, on Parliament's table, then the hystericalisation will start immediately, and you will be talking about that now, with this measure, the local authorities will be completely impossible, and then the world will collapse here; so that there is only one proposal, or it is not on the table before Parliament, otherwise, if it is in front of Parliament, then you will also have the opportunity to examine it, right, the transformation of the trade tax was what really caused the opposition of the pro-government representatives to the public. It is a question of competitiveness, and then, in the context of competitiveness, the government puts a proposal on the table, and if this is the case, Parliament can decide, but other than that, there was no amendment before Parliament, it did not come before Parliament, or it did not come up to the foundations of the municipal funding system. Mr Hajdu mentioned the transformation of the powers of the building authority, which is not a question of funding, but of powers; there is also a complete understanding here. Well, the building authority was an administrative authority, that was a state task. In all the textbooks, even the textbooks before 1990, if you open them, these construction tasks are included in the state tasks. It is undoubtedly true, Mr President, that these tasks have been performed by the State through the organisation of the local government, because the decision was that, in some respects, whether it is an organisation of work or, in a thousand other ways, it is a more rational thing. But that the State had these tasks of building authority, which were public tasks, to whom it had been directed, the government office, the district office, or an official of the local government acting as a state employee, could not then be ordered by the mayor in matters of building efficiency. So it's not a mayor's decision. If the Member is aware that the mayor or the body of representatives or the municipality has so far instructed the notary in such matters of construction, then that is a criminal offence, then he should press charges. Yet, when we discussed this amendment here, I heard the same panels from you, exactly the same panels. The other thing is the financing of public transport. Mr. Mayor Christmas built a whole PR campaign on this, say he builds up a PR campaign every day, and for weeks his PR campaign was to collapse Budapest public transport, and the government does not deal with public transport and Budapest because it requires, which otherwise makes it clear, which has already been fixed at a legal level, that the revenue that is due to municipalities under the law of centrally transferred revenues should be used primarily to finance public transport, which is otherwise a municipal responsibility. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 150 billion!]] And 150 billion forints, says Congressman Nacha. So where's the Skandalum? Where's the bleeding out of the municipal system? While we in the Prime Minister's Office are constantly paying attention to the fact that, for example, in the case of Budapest capital, any development that concerns Budapest should go ahead with the Council of Public Developments and that any improvements that the newly elected mayor's staff does not support will not be allowed to continue. So we don't think there's any point in a culture stop, there's no point in a theater stop, and there's no point in a hospital stop. I deeply disagree with these decisions made by the newly elected mayor, but we have undertaken from the government side that we will not allow public investment, public investment, which cannot support the Mayor or the local leaders in the district concerned. This system works kind of, but it's working right now. Now, what Congressman Kocsis-Cake has said, and Mr Csárdi has also referred to this by reading the investments involved, so this is not a wild investment. This is precisely the type of investment that serves a public purpose in the Act, the 2006 LIII. may be classified as a priority in the public interest, as defined in law. These are, in particular, energy, transport development, environmental, water, water protection, disaster protection, national security, public administration, education, health, research and development, cultural, heritage, sport and urban development objectives. So the investments that the Member has read, demonstrating... I do not know that this will come out of the record that the Member has read this dramatically, obviously expecting everyone here to throw away the pen that is in his hands, that the Gaz government wants to make such investments in Budapest. And yes, yes, I am standing here representing the Prime Minister's Office, and yes, Congressman, we are planning such investments. We would like to develop public transport, we would like to build a bridge, we would like to start a student town, we would like to develop an athletic stadium, on which I would like to point out that if you do not support that investment, you will have to agree with Mr. Mayor of Christmas, because we have been able to carry it through the Council of Public Developments and we have already been able to agree on that. I think that these investments, and this is linked to the bill, constitute investments of general interest, of particular public interest, and it is in the interests of the people of Budapest to achieve them. Therefore, although it may be that the pro-government representatives will receive this bill on the proposal of Congressman Kocsis-Cake, I do not recommend that the investments going beyond this, so that when a private estate developer decides to develop a condominium, we extend this bill to them, because I think that the two types of investment can be very distinctly separated from each other. From the government side, we see that this may have a cost-cutting effect, and otherwise these public area charges are not called taxes, and we do not call them fees in basic financial law classes, at least because they are funds collected for the types of public services for which the exact cost of the public service can be determined. Now, I think that in such cases, if, in the case of such an investment, we put the priority public objective on one side, and otherwise the exact expenditure items determined in this context, which are borne by the municipalities because of these investments, if we put these two side by side, then there is no value for money because the priority objective and the specific cost which the municipality can justify in connection with this investment, to which it is otherwise obliged to collect by virtue of the law, are not proportionate. Therefore, on the government side, the approach that allows for investment in particular for public purposes not to be set is something that we can support. In the last nine years, with the government of Budapest unchanged since then, there has been no financing problems, and Budapest has been able to move from 55th to 34th place in terms of living and quality of life during this period. That's what we want, and that's what we're interested in. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: In terms of rental prices?]] We are interested in continuing this development, and we are looking for partners in the legitimately elected mayor of Budapest and the district city leaders. We cannot support hysteria in this respect, and it is not in the interest of the people of Budapest. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-150	Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik!
u2020-02-25-151	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to return to the presentation after a large speech by the Secretary of State, covering the past, present and future of the municipalities. László Böröcz talked about one issue, one issue, the use of public space in connection with the Ráday College. When he told me, I agreed with him, and I did not know why my fellow Member, Anita Potocska, started by saying that this was related to the opposition elections on 13 October. Well, it has become clear, Congressman; as you have heard from László Hajdu, Gyula Molnár, Olivio Kocsis-Cake, everyone has said that in the individual case you would understand the concession, facilitation, support. [[16.40]] Why aren't you so creative, why didn't you put in a law that makes buildings useless as a result of elemental damage and fire? This could have been the case. But this whole thing is a Trojan horse, a Trojan horse, because on the pretext of this, you want to create this opportunity in full general, and not all public investment, not all that the government accepts in the regulation to relieve the investor from paying a public fee. Now I wonder why you should not do so in the case of opposition majority municipalities, yes, you will give them this opportunity, i.e. you will take away a major public reservation permit from them, and you will not do so in the case of your own. Why shouldn't you think so? And here, let's forget that you fattened up an oligarch or not. So, once again, on a case of individual merit, you will extend it to a situation like this. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In which you live with the suspicion lawsuit, what it's used for. Thank you.
u2020-02-25-152	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-02-25-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I didn't understand, either, when Congressman Antal Csárdi listed in a dramatic tone that we wanted to build a bridge, that we wanted to renovate Metro 3 and we wanted to renovate HÉV lines. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] How tragic that is. We do not see it as so tragic, we believe that this is in the interest of the people of Budapest and the agglomeration. But what I see is that on the opposition side, there is about unity in the fact that Krisztina Baranyi made the wrong decision, so she works as a bad mayor, doesn't make good decisions, except Antal Csárdi, because she was already fighting with her own party because she supported Krisztina Baranyi, so it's a delicate subject for her, but the others agreed that this was not the path that Krisztina Baranyi should have chosen. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that here the representatives of the local government in Ferencváros, the representatives of the local government in Fidesz-KDNP, discussed this at two committee meetings; otherwise, the builder submitted a request, he went in personally, there were many discussions on the subject, and after that Krisztina Baranyi said that he would not want to give a penny of it in any way. That's how the 10 percent discount was made, by the way. Congressman Gyula Molnár told me how generous he was with the metro investments in NewBuda, and somehow this story didn't add up to me, and now I've looked into it, but he also demanded 200 million forints of public space from the metro investment. [[Gyula Molnár intervenes.]] He demanded from the capital and complained that the public domain charge was not included in the contract, because he thought that it would have been for the NewBuda. It was not so demanding when one of the important places of my adolescence, the public areas around the Green Pardon, four times as many public spaces could be used free of charge by the club, but this is in the past. I would like to ask that investment in the market be not confused with investments in the public interest, which are for public purposes. Obviously, it's not the same when a hotel is built, a mall, a residential park, a restaurant, anything; there's no law about it, it's not regulated. My colleague Gyula Molnár tried to mix this here, but these are completely separate investments. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If there is a priority national interest, public interest and public interest, it is covered by the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-154	Congressman Csárdi, LMP!
u2020-02-25-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Then let's start with my colleague Nacha. Mr. Nacsa, do you dare to state in the record that the college builder, the contractor, is doing his job as a nonprofit? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: No!]] If so, please do it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Let me respond to the words of the Secretary of State. So I have no problem with funding the task, and I have a problem with under-financing the municipalities under the name of task funding, and thus filling the holes, which each municipality has to fill with its own revenue, makes it difficult, and we are now at the point of making it impossible for the municipalities to operate. I just collected it quickly, so from the top of my head, what revenue the municipalities have lost, and it will affect not only your governance cycle: car taxation, a permanent part of personal income tax, a reduction of business tax is now a topic, but it is indeed not possible to abandon that independent decision, the basis for democracy, when we can decide our own lives through the municipalities. And it can be said that the public authority, the building authority procedure is not a municipal task, but it must be seen that at the moment, if the situation remains so and all signs suggest that the new situation will take place as of 1 March, then for example, a given municipality cannot make the condition of the first-degree building permit subject to its own rules, for example, because it will be decided on its own behalf. For the record, Mr. Secretary, I have some bad news: we can't paint the castle wall pink, because, as you may remember, and this is also part of this circle, you liked to einstand certain districts of District I, and this [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At the moment, its ownership is being carried out by the Castle Headquarters. Please turn to them. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-156	Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP!
u2020-02-25-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Turn around! This isn't a movie, this is television, so stop looking at the picture on the wall, and look at what we're actually saying. For 15 minutes, we've been hearing a philosophical discussion here that I can tell you the opposite of. I agree with you on a lot of things, but there are simply some fundamentals that are not true, and what is a little worse than many basics that you have said is not true, it is not really happening, I am thinking about funding in particular. I'll tell you one little thing: in District I, a high school child's education and the education of a high school-aged child in Karancslapútőpuszta will either look at it, or a salgótarjánie shouldn't be unfair in this regard, and you'll see exactly what we think is the difference between the task funding and the normative one. The fact that you haven't heard a council leader complain can have two reasons: you only listen to people who don't dare to complain to you, or in some ways you can close your ears when people actually say something. I think everyone here just told me in two minutes, that's not what this was about. If you can find individual solutions, please find a unique solution to this. Now take that back, make a mistake, mess it up, notice, get the betli a lot of things I can tell you about this case, and then come back with a proposal that actually applies to this Reformed College! As a matter of fact, I am speaking very briefly to Congressman Nacsa: I was talking about 2 billion, we asked for 200 million, we had two public areas where the investment did not take place later, it was just a parade area, we wanted to create a playground. I don't understand the Green Pardon. Is your problem now that we gave it too cheap, or that the drinks were expensive and couldn't drink? You'll have to explain that in the next period. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-158	Congressman Sándor Kovács Fidesz!
u2020-02-25-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I was thinking that I envy your problem. I come from a region where any mayor, any government leader [[Gyula Molnár intervenes.]] If I burn down a hospital, a school, a dorm, and the state and the public give me the money, and the municipality says I'll let him go because they ask me to let go of the public utility fee, they put their two hands together to just build that building. I think it's greed, a greed to profit from a tragedy, an extra income on a tragedy. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Now think of the specific case that there was this fire, this tragedy, people with their own taxed money gave over 100 million forints to rebuild this dorm. What's the municipality doing? He collects this sum of around HUF 100 million in public domain charges to spend it on propaganda, spending it on salaries, spending it on committee posts. How are people going to give to such a purpose? They're gonna tell me why I should donate my taxed income when they're taken away. What I see is that, on the one hand, they are asking the government to build institutions with public tasks in Budapest, and then they are taking down the pale from the construction of these institutions, not spending it to be more beautiful and better. This municipality, the municipality of Ferencváros, could say that it is releasing the construction tax, but in return it asks that the environment of the college be more landscaped, more beautiful, or ask for something. No! He wants to collect money for financial reasons. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-160	Thank you. Congressman Coach-Cake Olivio, Dialogue!
u2020-02-25-161	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to respond to a few things. The Secretary of State has said that we do not support the construction of the subway and the construction of bridges here. We support these, of course. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] But there are quite pointless investments on your part for public purposes, such as the need to move the Ministry of Finance to the Castle, not many people know. [[16.50]] I didn't want to suggest that private individuals get such a discount, just before they put it in my mouth, I just gave an example that the privileged ones get the discount, the Fidesz-close companies that win these investments, and the little man stays happy again. It's a recurring element, so let me be clear on that. One of the Fidesz congressmen said that the municipalities are stealing this money, which is quite amazing. So this money is due to local governments because they use their territory in particular, and the damage involved must be reimbursed to them, and there to the residents of the area it causes inconvenience, dust, dirt, noise, this money is to reduce them. In addition, the local body decides how this money is used. You always say that there is democracy here, that the vote has taken place, that the Members have been elected, and that they have the right to decide. Then, on the spot, are Members not entitled to decide what the municipality's revenue will be spent on? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, When you decide, is it right when other people decide, and not? ! So this money is rightfully due to the municipalities, which, obviously, we agree on this, must be used to alleviate the damage caused by the construction. Once again, I think that you should make a proposal specifically for this case, and we can support the establishment of this college by paying as little as possible public access charges, but the fact that you want to neute the entire municipal system is unacceptable. Thank you.
u2020-02-25-162	We will now return to the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. First, Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, please.
u2020-02-25-163	Mr President, Dear House, I have waited patiently for my turn, and I am somewhat appalled by the behaviour of my fellow members of government. I don't want to use strong adjectives, but unfortunately, in the face of an inevitable or perhaps avoidable tragedy that you've done at the point of argument, it's quite stomach-stricken, repulsive. This proposal, which lies before us, is not about settling the situation of a burnt-out college, is it? If I'm wrong, you're gonna have to come forward, yell at me, throw pebbles or word-flowers, whatever. Just give me a sign. So this isn't about a dorm, is it?
u2020-02-25-164	Not to me, 'cause you can't throw rocks! [[Defiance.]]
u2020-02-25-165	I know, Mr. President, I understand. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: This is not a dialogueal genre!]] It is not a dialogueal genre, but I must say that it is simply not what the members of the government are talking about on the paper. I understand that this Magyar Nemzet, News TV and other lie factories, who are losing the press trial, will bring it down to how well the pro-government heroes have stood up for our nation again, while the opposite is true. But let's talk about what's on the paper. Ladies and gentlemen, if you withdraw this weirdness ahead of us and submit a real bill, a sensible one about this situation, or the settlement, reactivation of buildings hit by fire at any level, or the Khr or any other relevant component, I will certainly support it, but this is not what we have ahead of us. The thing is, you don't want to make a unique decision, you want to make it easier for your own supposed friends and business associates to do their own construction work in the face of a tragedy. And that's why I say it's gastric, because if it weren't for your supposed, well-connected business associates, it would be the builders of those who appear here as contractors, I don't think there'd be a debate between us. I can also support this individual position, and I have not agreed with my faction or others that the district council should not be affected by this charge in relation to the burned college, but, let's say, in relation to other priority investments, where it is a sports hall or the relocation of a public institution, the municipality concerned can expect some kind of compensation. In a simple example, after such a construction, if the shopkeepers in the area contact the municipality concerned to reactivate the area, then there will be someone to pay this bill. In fact, I would be okay with you, as the great party of state, setting up a state institution that could be turned to, yes, because of the construction, I have suffered such and such damage, so please compensate. Make such a large public company feel free to do so if the people involved can turn around, I think that will also be an acceptable solution. But the Trojan horse, which has been put before us here, is referring to an amazing tragedy, and they are making a change affecting the future fate of the whole country, which will strike your good friends in billions as plus, quite repulsive, fellow Members! How could they have sunk to the point of having errand boys for contractors? ! How can that happen? ! It's pretty amazing. The same construction companies appear on the coast of Rome, in the vicinity of the mobile dam, during the construction of the residential parks in Budapest. It is quite amazing that they pretend not to be aware of the activities of economic operators operating in their own presumably familiarity. What happened in Obuda? There was a change ban on the mobile barrier, and it was lifted. Interestingly, an enterprise near the government came along, started building a residential park, because it was granted permission, and then they re-instated the change ban, and no one else could build it in the area. And that's what's happening all over the country, that's what's happening in all the municipalities, and on the other hand, yes, if they can bring up arguments, then tell us now and sober us up. What we see, and the big thing, is that even if we could accept that you would not receive any compensation for rebuilding a burnt-out college, let's say, the local government, because I could accept it, I cannot accept that you will receive huge, billion-dollar, hundred-billion-dollar benefits from national, government-wide contractors for the future. And if you want to make all this amendment a fundamental law, I don't know whether it is, confirm or deny it, if you want to make it a fundamental law, and cement this amendment so that it can only be removed by two thirds afterwards, then I feel like the horse's foot is hanging out, there's nothing to talk about. Furthermore, the only successful, the only correct approach would be to withdraw it, to make the individual decision concerned together with Parliament, and I will certainly be able to support it. So there is no case where I do not support the reconstruction of a burnt-out dorm, and so will our faction; this is quite clear, but let us also make a distinction between investment in the public interest and investment in the public interest. Burnt dorm okay, I think it's a basic patriotic duty to provide support in such a case. Why move the Treasury Department to Castle? Okay, public interest according to you, at the regulation level, I don't think so. So here there is a fundamental debate between us that there is obviously a humanitarian, there is a clear circle of activities for humanity, for the Hungarian community, and let's say I refer to a dormitory, a ecclesiastical institution, but to support various government pyramid constructions in this way, I cannot even describe it with the best intentions. And what we see is that when the municipalities express their fears and articulate the voices in this regard, I think it is not because of this proposal, in the spirit of fairness, we note this, but rather because of the comments on the business tax. After all, we can see here that in 2019 companies paid HUF 827 billion in trade tax and others in terms of recent years, who now make a complaint. Compared to this, the volume of corporate tax is small, so we are now talking about 300-400 billion again and 2,700 billion in personal income tax. So you can see that this more than 800 billion is a very large sum, and if only a part of this is withdrawn from the municipal sub-scheme by the Government of Hungary, then there may be a risk to basic activities. Obviously, in such a case, sincere communication helps. Here was an honest sentence from one of my fellow Members, where he said that yes, and that it would come before Parliament, and that they would look at the changes that they wish to take from the municipalities in terms of industry. I appreciate that, because it was an honest sentence, so you can prepare for trouble, take preventive steps and communicate. This is how it should be done, my fellow Members, so it is not necessary to lie and to keep quiet what they are about to do, but to speak frankly about the system of trade tax and the transformation of the tax system as a whole. If we can at least learn this honest communication between ourselves, then I feel that solutions can be found to the problems of the municipal subsystem, and I am open. So this is a professional issue, a legitimate debate, a legitimate basis for debate is what the Government of Hungary would like to do with the business tax. If you want to withdraw this at least partially from the municipalities, then argue that you should put down a professional document on this, discuss it with the House. Once again, let there be a productive and unqualified debate, but this paper package, which lies ahead of us, cannot be outdated without certification, because it is quite simply out of the way for some contractors to benefit from it, to be virtually due to some of the things that should not even have been in their heads. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.00]]
u2020-02-25-166	Thank you very much. Congressman László Böröcz will now take the floor, Fidesz. And let me tell you that Secretary of State Orbán has requested the floor on behalf of the government. Then you have the floor.
u2020-02-25-167	[[His mic won't say. The screen shows the name of Dr. Balázs Orbán.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman Z. Carpathian... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We can't hear it! One voice: He didn't get the word!]]
u2020-02-25-168	Congressman Böröcz's microphone...
u2020-02-25-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman Z. Carpathia is asking that we try to sober you up. I'll try. Basically, I think there's a difference in opinion. I may even understand that you always assume wrong behind all sorts of proposals, but I cannot provide an example of the fact that, in the past ten years, local governments, whether it is an opposition or a government-party government, would have been involved in investments in the interests of the district or in the interest of the municipality, since the environment has become more orderly, the city has evolved and the country has obviously developed. And if I were to start from the line of thought of Congressman Molnár, I would come to the conclusion that, after all, he said that 2 billion forints were released in connection with the investment of the subway. If I were to assume that, does that mean, Congressman, that you have enriched the foreign investor who, by the way, has completed the renovation of the subway with 2 billion forints? [[Or Gábor Demszky...]] 'Cause that's basically where we are. So we can agree to this debate, but that's what it's gonna mean. And basically, I would like to draw attention to some errors in the proposal. Consultations: regarding the negotiations, it is quite clear that, in relation to the Reformed College, the Fidesz municipality, while the municipality of Ferencváros was still a Fidesz municipality, obviously the help offered by them was that the public use fee was released. Obviously, the church has included in this renovation, the people have given in to this renovation, and in line with this, the government has obviously added its own share of which they will be able to renovate the college. So, to be honest, it is true that if it is only HUF 100 million compared to the total investment, obviously compared to the HUF 5 billion that Congressman Csárdi said, it may be a small sum, but it is people who put it in, and yet it is the case that has not occurred so far, because the municipalities have automatically granted these discounts in such cases. Annex IX is amended as follows: district government, changing the position of the former district administration, which, of course, has the right of your heart to contribute to the reconstruction of the college, changing that, in fact, it has actually, sassed this investment. And yet they are taking people's money, because they have made a donation of HUF 100 million. And the question is, why did this happen? Why did this happen, and why do we have to negotiate such a bill today? Is it because it's a Reformed College? Or is it because it's a student college? Or why? [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Oh, my God!]] Why was it important for Mayor Baranyi to block this investment in this way, when no opposition or pro-government authorities had ever done so before? Mr Cake mentioned that priority investments of a social nature should be promoted. The bill is precisely about expanding the priority investments in a social sense. Congressman Csárdi's statement on the car tax: 40 percent of the car tax is still being paid to the municipalities. [[Antal Csárdi: Thank you!]] So it's not true that it was towed. You said that the car tax had been deducted from the municipalities. On the other hand, there were a number of speeches to bleed out the municipalities, to fund the municipalities. The meaning of the word may now differ conceptually from what you use and what we use, but I am quite certain that between 2002 and 2010, the municipalities would have been happy if they had been bled or underfunded as we did with them between 2010 and 2019. On the one hand, the revenue of municipalities, when compared with the 2010-2019 numbers, rose sharply. Obviously, with regard to the financing of the task, which Mr Secretary spoke about, it is precisely defined how much money you will receive. Obviously, their own income could have increased compared to this. Unique cases. The bill is not about the automatic exemption of all priority government investments or projects declared as priority investments, so this is a mistake in this respect, but about the need to make a separate decision on this otherwise. That's one of them. The second is that it has also been said, perhaps by Congressman Molnár, and Mr Cake has also limited himself to this, that these funds must be paid because of the damage that the investment would do to the particular settlement, the construction process itself. In connection with the construction process, obviously, especially where there is already decorative covering or other casings on the road to or in the area, the municipality is already collecting a deposit from the investor, in almost every case. And obviously, this deposit, if there's an injury, and the local government gets it fixed, is deducted from this deposit. So the two shouldn't be confused. He does not collect public utility charges in order to repair these damages afterwards. And the other one is, I don't know which one of you mentioned that there would be such a free dump for companies here. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Gyula Molnár.]] Yes, thank you, Congressman Molnar mentioned it. I would just like to point out that both in the text of the law and in the text of the proposal, the regulatory procedure of the municipalities in this case is not affected, so they can lay down the rules on how these areas can be given. And, obviously, I would like to point out that no one can do anything to ask for a greater share of the investment than they would normally need. [[Demercation and intervention from the benches of opposition parties.]] That's something to laugh about, Congressman Csárdi, but it's still the case. [[Antal Csárdi: Example...]] It is not in the interest of any municipality to exclude from public areas a greater area than is strictly necessary for the investment, and even if some are familiar with municipal matters, since there were representatives of local governments or city leaders, they know precisely that, in each of these cases, long discussions with investors prevent them from receiving, or not, areas. In this regard, the current rights of the municipalities are not violated, because they can also define these rules in the same way as those relating to investment. There is no exemption from public procurement, and I did not fully understand that from the Member. Or allow me one more to draw attention to one thing. I know you don't think so, but believe me, we do, and I think we're right about this story. [[Demercation and intervention from the benches of opposition parties. Antal Csárdi: Oh! That was an argument! The president's ringing the bell.]] I believe that you do not take kindly to the fact that Hungarian entrepreneurs are winning public procurement in Hungary. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Only you wouldn't have said that...]] But with regard to all major investments, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these people, these companies, these Hungarian companies, thank God they are able to start on public procurement, because there has not always been an example of this. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties. Tibor Nunkovics: It can be explained...]] There were times when only German, French, Italian and Austrian companies won these public procurements. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's no good... but it's no good that you're stealing... Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't ask for it.]] I think it is particularly useful and, by the way, welcome that Hungarian companies are finally able to compete for these, and Hungarian companies are winning these public procurements. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-170	Thank you. State Secretary Orbán, please.
u2020-02-25-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to sort out a few inaccuracies very briefly. Firstly, as Mr Böröcz has pointed out, it is among the investments that can be declared as a priority for the national economy that we are talking about investments of a particular public interest, so this is a much narrower circle than you are constantly talking about in the speeches. [[17.10]] A separate government decision is required for this step, and the government can only determine the length of time, it cannot determine the extent of public use, it remains a municipal authority. My second comment would be on the business tax. I would like to ask you, better Members, if I may ask, that it is not worth creating hysteria again, because again I have not said anything new. I said that there would be a proposal at the Competitiveness Council, and then the government will consider it, and if it is the result of the government balance, then there will also be a parliamentary consideration. [[Anita Kőrösi: That's not what she said!]] Yes, you can. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's nicer this way!]] So please interpret my words this way, because according to the generally accepted rules of the Hungarian language, this was the meaning of what I said. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then so must be said!]] The third is: I would just like to point out to Mr Hajdu that I did not understand this, that the part concerning the amendment of the Public Procurement Act is not in this proposal, so the relationship between the public procurement procedure and this bill is not seen by the government at the moment. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-02-25-172	We now return to the normal speeches. Congressman László Hajdu, DK!
u2020-02-25-173	Dear Secretary of State, We passed a law last year that, if and if the municipality wins a tender from this government, no matter what colorful majority that municipality has, it is obliged to entrust a public procurement expert over the amount of the funds, a public procurement firm and the conduct of the entire public procurement itself is centrally managed instead. So I'm referring to this, it's already a law, it works, we just don't win any money, so it's not a problem to appoint the Commissioner for Public Procurement in the district. I asked to speak for the following reasons. Anyone who puts a container on public property is a little man because he's renovating, they have to pay. Anyone who sells flowers in a retired lady in a public area has to pay. The contractor, who has a trade in public property, has to pay. The national tobacco store does not have to pay, it is outside the national tobacco store, it did not have to pay public property charges, they have been free of public property charges, and we cannot even speak to them, the national tobacco store. The national tobacco store cannot be checked to keep its opening hours; we cannot check what alcohol consumption and sales are going on there. The national tobacco store is something outside the district. We have 37 of these in the district, no matter where the national tobacco store is, it's a separate case. I would like to mention that the local government has seriously changed since your government stood up in 2010. I would just like to give you a few examples, but it must be mentioned because you have said, Mr State Secretary, that the municipalities have not fundamentally changed; but, fundamentally, they have changed. They nationalized hospitals, that's what started them. Hospitals have basic problems because municipal resources that have entered these hospitals are all missing. So, basically, one of the problems is that hospitals have such a lack of inpatient care. The education was nationalised and the municipal assets were transferred to KLIK by transferring the municipal assets to this trustee without any compensation. Yes, but there was a solidarity tax on operations, a solidarity contribution, which was as high as the level of solidarity contribution at the time of the operation of buildings. Well, that way we can run the schools! Last year, the capital as a local government paid more than HUF 10 billion in solidarity contributions to the Klebelsberg Kunó Institutional Provider, that is to say, the district of education. So it's a fantastic solution that they took it from us, but they're running it with someone else, but who the operator is, it's none of our business, because the school that I went to before I was mayor, I have to make a phone call to get in there or not, because they've replaced the Guardian Protection Service. But in it they left the delicate task for us, the catering, the children's meals. We go in by paying rent for that dining area and the kitchen in their own property. So this is a fundamental and elementary change. I will give you a specific number: in 2017, this particular solidarity contribution was 274 million for the XV. 616 million in the case of district, in 2020. This goes up in proportion to the number of schools and institutions run. It is also a very significant change, I think, and it must be known to you, or even if you know it, I must warn you: a number of municipalities have become net contributors since 2010. In English: what you receive from the state in a normative way, the more you pay to the state, including through solidarity taxes, motor vehicle taxes and much more. So you have to look at 168 municipalities now net contributors in the country. This means that there is a payment by the municipalities to the extent from which small loss-making municipalities can be financed, so it is financed across the board. So they make us pay with basic philosophy, local governments, cross-subsidies. Finally, I would like to say that this decision is a fundamental violation of our right to property in the local government. If you do not change the content of this regulation or bill, it will clearly mean what you believe to be the emergency bells: the strike of the I. district, the hit of the Zugló municipality at the construction sites in the grove or the IX. Scratch the perimeter. So what we have to say is that this is a serious, anti-government, small, simple, church-based law, which is actually very serious, the financing of companies operating in the market sector by the municipalities, so we are financing market companies. This cannot be accepted, cannot be supported. Thank you.
u2020-02-25-174	Thank you very much. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP!
u2020-02-25-175	Thank you very much for the floor. I don't know where to start. Let's start with the definition. My fellow Member Böröcz had a problem with the interpretation of the term "underfunded." So if it costs me 100 per cent of a task as a local government, and I get only 55 per cent of this 100 per cent cost from the state through the task financing system, then since I don't get the full amount, the task is underfunded. It follows, my fellow Member, that I must complement the missing 45% from another source of revenue, which, by the way, will be missed in the case of self-investments. Because I think that there will be no discussion between us that we are missing a municipal investment that does not involve either a state or a European Union leg, so the self-government investments are virtually gone, and this is not a coincidence, my fellow Member. I think we should talk about what's going on with this college renovation. Is the renovation and reconstruction of the college considered a priority government investment? Yes or no answer to that! If not, and not to my knowledge, but correct me if I'm wrong, then this law doesn't apply to college building. And I think it's worth talking about this public domain charge. I would like to invite Mr Böröcz and Congressman Nacsa to come with me, let us go to the site, and I will show you how severely this investment restricts the people who live there. [[17.20]] It's not a tragedy, I just think it's a shame to deny it. And I'm going to show you how the newly renovated playground in this area will be destroyed by the construction that the municipality will have to do again. So it's not from the air and the air that the municipality is asking for this public domain charge. But this is a much more serious problem, and I will also tell my fellow opposition Members, Dániel Z. Kárpát, my fellow Member Molnár, that this public use charge does not make the investment cheaper. From now on, the deceitful lie that this is taken from people, let's forget it. What happens is that the contractor appointed by the investor, in general, how did my Fidesz fellow Member put it? the Hungarian entrepreneur, who we know is Mészáros or one of his business associates, so his profit margin is reduced by this item. If it's released, and otherwise it doesn't make the investment cheaper, it lands in his pocket. The problem is that what our Fidesz fellow Members are so eager to say is what a crime against humanity is, the question is whether this amount, this money, will be in the municipality or will be in the oligarch. There's no third case! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, there is!]] I would also like to ask a question with due respect to Mr Secretary of State, you can expect a bill to come in these days and weeks, which will require that, if the government considers it to be moral and moral, the contractor must carry out the task with pro bono nullsaldo without a profit margin. Can you expect such a bill? Because as long as you don't, and as long as you overpriced government investments, you should expect there to be serious outrages on the opposition side. I took a lot of notes. In one of his comments, the Secretary of State said that the funding was adequate. I don't think the funding's right. As I have just indicated to Mr Böröcz, the financing would be adequate if the full cost of the task was provided by the task financing system. It is not that there is a difference of 5-10 percent, and then the municipality will manage it without any particular strain, by restructuring the investments, but it is that 55 percent of the kindergartens' operations are financed only over half of the mandatory task, and 50 percent of the money received through the task financing is not in the operation of crèches. I can't even say culture anymore, really, because it's so underfunded that I'd miss it. But the financing of compulsory social benefits does not exceed 70%. That's the situation, Mr. Secretary. Compared to this, you have to look at the task funding system. So this is not about the fact that the Csárdi Member does not like the task funding system, but the fact is that you are doing it wrong. Of course, I understand that the tighter the string, the more you can control the municipalities. However, I remember very well that when I was a member of the capital and István Tarlós, mayor of the opposition, wanted to buy 150 new modern buses for metro line 3 renewal. If I remember correctly, it would have cost 87 million forints apiece, but I'm not so sure about that anymore. I think that the essence of your task financing system was a government decision very quickly, as it was able to purchase buses on loan, which was about the fact that the Municipality of Budapest could not use a loan to buy buses, but only for the purchase of services. I remember that before us there was a purchase of a service where the operation of 150 buses would have cost virtually double the cost compared to the purchase. You, hiding behind such wonderful terms as task funding, are trying to achieve nothing but to provide money and pocket money to your oligarchs, as Congressman Böröcz said, to Hungarian entrepreneurs. But they're Hungarian entrepreneurs. Oh, come on. Since 2010, three Hungarians have been educated, but they may have four top 10 rich Hungarians, each of which is significantly over 100 billion forints, and compared to this, they hide with the Hungarians themselves, the Hungarian entrepreneurs who see nothing of this money. The problem is that this is the cause of the problems. This is the result of the overpriced investment, which is why every small-scale case will be a debate between us, let us put it mildly. Yeah, and, of course, the fact that they're trying to frame you in some really rude way, make your political opponent impossible. [[László Böröcz: Who?]] [[László Böröcz: Who?]] If you press a button, you can ask because I really can't hear you from here. (László Böröcz: Kit?) The question is, who's being framed? They're trying to frame Krisztina Baranyi, but I think... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't go into the trap!]]
u2020-02-25-176	Stop it, Congressman.
u2020-02-25-177	I'll do my best. So the thing is, they're trying to frame Krisztina Baranyi. And I daresay that this one little woman has more decency than half of your faction. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-178	Dear Parliament, I see the army of candidates and re-entryers. It is my duty to draw your attention to the fact that the chorus is a very beautiful and important element of folk song, but it is not a necessary part of the legislative negotiations. Therefore, I would ask you to press a button and give your opinion, or perhaps consider your speech. Thus, a two-minute speech will now be given to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-179	Mr President, Dear House, Not surprisingly, my fellow pro-government Members' statements on propaganda moved me to press a button, in a very clear way. Well, you spend more than 100 billion forints on government propaganda and a lie factory, and we've been arguing about a 100 million forint item here for over two hours. You're throwing more than a thousand times that into an industrially organized lie factory, and you're smirking in our faces. My collective request is for everyone to lay low a little, argue about the subject, but with statements that Budapest has become a more livable city, how much has he come forward on the list, while a sublet of 160 thousand forints, Mr. Secretary of State, without any rent...! Have some insight into real people's real problems. Don't get so far away from reality because you're creating unmanageable situations. And not only in Parliament, where we can no longer have a meaningful professional debate with each other, since we are already hearing a party state-type victory report that is circling the point of trying to bring you back from this false reality. [[17 .30]] I would also like to say that it is possible to accuse the Franciscan municipality of spending the funds involved on propaganda, but this accusation is not made by someone whose team is scattering thousands of the amount involved, I repeat, to an industrially organized lie factory. I would also like to point out once again that it is absolutely acceptable for me that, in the context of the restoration of the burnt-out college, the local government does not receive any revenue, where appropriate, so I am open in this direction. Please be open to the possibility that the prices of these orders will not necessarily be spent by the Danube Asphalt, not by any prominent flagship of the pro-government friendly team running all the public procurements. Then let's get to a clean, real race, market conditions, and otherwise not extra profit. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] companies that create real value to make these investments. I will be open to voting in favour of every motion in this direction. Thank you.
u2020-02-25-180	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, two minutes!
u2020-02-25-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In his previous speech, Dániel Z. Carpathian asked a question in favour of splashing. And the question was about the polarity. It is also written in the law, the law is considered to be fundamental, not by us, but by the Fundamental Law it is classified as a two-thirds rule of the local government. It's just an answer to your question, to the fact that I don't know what kind of executioner we are, and that we're thieves... I wouldn't respond to that right now. Your style is your own poverty certificate, so I'm not going to respond to what you're accusing me of here, and then you're going to call for a professional debate after you steal us. Congressman, I'm a little... [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Quote from the record!]] He said we were stealing, it's okay, it's in the report. I understand, fellow Members, what the problem is. You have misunderstood this law for the last two hours. You believe that the investor is not the investment here, but the investor is free of charge. Not the investor, not the contractor, the investment itself, so it will be cheaper. They didn't understand that. We have now resolved this incomprehension, and now we can be on one side, because the investment will receive this fee-free. So, for example, if a person makes a request to the government or to a tender and submits the cost plan, then obviously there, if it is declared free of charge for a particular public interest and public purpose, then that amount of money can be given to that investment and that investment will cost less. You misunderstood, you thought the investor, the contractor, would be free of charge. No, it's the investment itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: If everyone comes across the highway...]]
u2020-02-25-182	Congressman László Böröcz, Fidesz!
u2020-02-25-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to respond to a few little things. On the one hand, Mr Csárdi, although I am sorry to see that he has gone off the rails, has a very specific style of debate, but he may have gone a little over the top, so I would not respond to what he has brought up. I think we need to exercise some restraint. The other is that what Mr Nacsa has just said is about and I believe that this is difficult to understand, but the practice of these investments has been that the municipalities have granted either no charge or almost no charge for such investments in the general interest. This is how the investor has been able to negotiate the decision with the investors. You are calling us to account for why we brought this in, because there is only one example, the Ráday Street College, which is now forgotten. Indeed, this is the focal point of the story. If this was a public agreement so far and, as Congressman Molnár said, in connection with the subway investment in Obuda, two billion forints were released to the investor, if I look at your logic, but hopefully this was the best they could save on the investment, then why can't you understand that this is a legitimate decision? And if, at the Ráday College, Mayor Baranyi has done this now, then why can't I assume that for some reason or because she is a Reformer, or because she doesn't like colleges, or because tomorrow she'll find out why she won't like the same decision; so that the committees, the committees of the body of representatives, have always proposed a 50 percent concession, and the other almost complete remission. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] After that, the mayor's got it voted off. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-184	We now return to the normal speeches. Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz!
u2020-02-25-185	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Listening to the debate for two hours, and thinking about the fact that we have been sitting here in Parliament with Mr László Hajdu for more than two decades, sometimes as pro-government, sometimes as opponents, we do not belong to a platform, and I heard what Mr Hajdu said about the world of the municipality, I think I also said when I was an opposition Member, what was the situation then. That's not what the bill is about anyway. Everything has come up, bled out Budapest, bled out municipalities and so on. One thing brought this draft legislation before us, the case of the Ráday College in Ferencváros. If, by the way, you, who are coalition partners in Ferencváros, had settled this matter on the spot, then it is not here today, and we would not have debated this draft legislation two hours ago, because it could have been resolved on the spot. Think about it, nine and a half years ago, the red sludge disaster was there, if the local government was there when half the country worked there and joined forces to clean up the red sludge disaster, it would have asked the companies there, everyone in the restoration, for a public use fee. It was unthinkable. It was unthinkable! Unfortunately, Congressman Lasztovicza is no longer here, because unfortunately, he has passed away, and he has carried the cases there, and my fellow Member Ékes and I have also been present at a significant time. This could not have happened at the time, could not have come up, but now it has come up, and this is the issue that has to be resolved, which is what the Members have proposed. In addition, we are talking about investments in the public interest, which are only a few in the country, and this bill is extended to this particular case. On this point, Mr Secretary of State reflected in detail and reflected on the issue of the local government world. Congressman Csárdi has left, sometimes blurts out what he has to say and then leaves. Maybe he'll come back. The funding of tasks does not depend on what we put into the task, but more precisely on what we put into the task. If you stretch it to 120 percent, you'll probably get less because you only have 100 percent of the job funding. But I remember saying to Mr Hajdu, when it was not task financing, it was normative funding. In the framework of normative funding, let's say if we talk about culture, local governments received 50 HUF/person support for the museum service. 50 HUF/person per municipality! Or I could say that in social care, the social institution had to be added to normative support by 70%. At the same time, the State took on significant tasks from the municipalities. There would be no development in many schools today, because there would be no money for municipalities to develop if the state did not take over. In many hospitals, there would be no improvement if the municipality were the owner. I was a hospital supporter with my body of representatives, and it would never have cost billions of forints in life if the state hadn't taken over the maintenance of the hospital and the development of the hospital. But this is not the subject of this agenda, but since it has been discussed in a number of cases, I think that we can put this aside. On the subject of the agenda, I would ask you to settle this matter with your mayor in Ferencváros as a coalition partner. We are discussing this bill in the framework it is about: some investments in the public interest, which are important for all of us. And if there's no public access fee, then the investment is so much cheaper. Everyone is right about that, but someone is looking at it through these glasses, and some people are watching the investment in total, how much cheaper it is. It is true, what Congressman Gyula Molnár said, and it is true, as our fellow Member Olivio said, that the use of public land is for the occasional damages, dust, transport difficulties, these are the general rules of public use, but these are rules requiring special public use, whether in Ferencváros or in the case of investments involving red sludge or in the public interest. [[17.40]] That is why I ask that we remain on this subject and that we look at this proposal as such. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-25-186	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik!
u2020-02-25-187	[[Adjusting your microphone:]] Excuse me, Mr. President, I wasn't expecting such a quick opportunity. Let me also ask the question to Mr Kovács, Member Böröcz. Let's start from the fact that it was inspired by the Ráday College, in fact it only applies to a few public-interest, public-interest, special investments, where it is good for everyone, if it is cheaper, because there is no public-use charge to be paid here. Let's take it. Then why isn't this law taxative? Why is it put there that this does not always apply, only in the event that the government, by decree, is authorized by this law, says that yes, there will be no public access charges here, there will be! [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] But why is it so? ! Congressman! Taxative means why individual government decisions are needed for this in a separate government decree. Because I'm not talking about whether the oligarch is getting rich or not, I'm talking about which governments... [[The speaker's microphone falls off.]] I'm sorry, I'm talking about which governments will continue to receive public domain charges in such a case and which do not. Why do you have to pick it up here? If these are so important investments that make the important goal cheaper, why is it not taxative? Why doesn't it apply by law? If the government decides whether to apply it or not, that's my problem. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-188	A two-minute speech will be held by Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2020-02-25-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to add three things to my speech as a speaker. This debate has been going on for almost three hours, and it has not yet been said that we are talking about Budapest, but of course this applies to the entire territory of the country. So if there is one of these anywhere in the country, according to a taxicatical list of the law, the government says that, although it is true that I do not think there are any other goals, because virtually all kinds of services and all kinds of goals are listed, so they can categorize virtually anything as a public interest investment, even in the region of Lake Balaton, which we know is an area of war where you want to use your bastions as much as possible; so let us state that this can affect not only Budapest but also a municipality on the shore of Lake Balaton. Mr Orbán, Minister of State, has just recant the sentences on the basis of which we still consider that a confessional Freudian statement was a cut-off of the trade tax, as he said that the draft legislation was being drafted and that it would be brought before Parliament. We'll take that out of the record. He told me in hindsight that this wasn't about that. I take it that, in effect, Mr Secretary of State has admitted that this is going on. And one little thing at the end. We mentioned the name of the Danube Asphalt several times. You didn't deny this, so you admit that this legislation will also benefit Duna Aszfalt Kft. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-190	Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz!
u2020-02-25-191	I just want to respond to the trade tax. Everyone in the opposition said just to clarify at all what the issue of uploading means, that they are being taken away from the municipalities. They're not getting married. If what's in the press is true, and it's true, Mr. Secretary of State said we don't know what's coming, but on the basis of what you're talking about, it could be a six-month liquidity problem at best. They won't take a penny. Instead of December, they get it in May... [[Anita Kőrösi: Nobody told me!]] Yes, you can. Even though the congresswoman claims that she is being taken away from the municipalities, they are being taken away from the municipalities. [[Car-Cake Olivio nods.]] My fellow Member, Mr Olivio, nods that this is indeed how it was said. Within this year, between 2020 and 21, the system will set up, and everyone will know that the upload is in May and not in December. By the way, when this was born, such uploads were born because the municipalities were heavily indebted and took out loans within the year, and revenues did not arrive in the same way: tax revenues were received in March and September, but in many cases in October and November December. That's why they were able to pay off the upload at the last minute. But the thing is, things have changed since then. The state has taken over a number of tasks from the municipalities. Moreover, the funding of tasks depends partly on those who carry out the task, and consequently not to mention the fact that the state has given 1262 billion to the municipalities, and more precisely has taken over from them, there is a new situation compared to this. This is the way to assess what is not yet.
u2020-02-25-192	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next as speaker.
u2020-02-25-193	Mr President, Dear House, Very briefly, not abusing the frameworks given by the normal speech: which I think could be hurtful, and it would be good if we could smooth it out between us, that more of my fellow members of the government mentioned that with an order of about HUF 100 million, perhaps the municipality would benefit from a little more - quote, so that it would come to its money that had been provided to it by the previous rules, and if it were not, then it would be your precept that it would be cheaper to carry out the investment. I need a confirmation on what would make it cheaper, what is the guarantee that the contractor will not swallow it. We're talking 100 million forints. We are right to talk about the fate of such a large sum, but if another 5 billion was circulating in terms of total volume, then we must say that we should examine the activities of the contractors. So can any of my pro-government fellow Members claim that the Danube Asphalt or any other contractor who might be mentioned in such a case wins a public procurement procedure or a public procurement procedure, he works in a non-profit way? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Why would it be nonprofit?]] I'm just wondering if anyone who's going to do the whole thing has a profit margin, or if this hundred million is over his profit or not, or if they're even in the same weight class. So in such cases, especially if there are several similar cases, the question arises that single opposition representatives are suspicious, who think that at this time, although they are trying to save 100 million with one hand, by not getting the local government access to space and other charges, but the contractor, who is doing this whole project, can be richer than several times. I'm not sure that's true. I'll tell you again, take this as a preconception on our part. But at least let some veils of truth be lit up, let us see behind it, and a more constructive, sincere debate could arise between us. I would add, if we are talking about such public investment, and in the long term, let us say, a continuous demand within the construction industry, a demand for certain types of investment, a large public background, an apparatus, a mechanism, then why has the government not thought about creating a non-essential profit-oriented company in order to do so and trying to secure these investments much cheaper, more efficiently and faster, except for profit. I'm not saying this is the exclusive direction, I'm telling you to think about it. And here in opposition representatives, these suspicions were clearly awakened because the contractors typically run from the same fold in the last eight years over more than eight years, and I apologize for it, and here we have to see that when there may be a change ban in Budapest, this will probably be lifted for an investor near the government, and then re-ordered when he has been granted permission, we have a strong suspicion that, indeed, the interests of close-to-government businesses will appear here. And if any of you are offended by the fact that there are government representatives here as accessors to these investors, then I would ask you to remove these doubts. If these can be eliminated, they will find a partner in us, we will release these doubts, and we will support all pro-government proposals aimed at eliminating these problems as soon as possible and in the most efficient way possible after such a tragedy. Once again, in the case of sincere intentions, you can count on our vote. Thank you for your attention. [[17.50]]
u2020-02-25-194	A two-minute speaker will be Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2020-02-25-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Here, in connection with the upload, I would like to correct what my pro-government fellow Member has said. I would have been keen to support it in the tax package if this had been the only line in that tax package, since it has already approved that the uploading of the business tax will be delayed. It is not that, but the transformation of the business tax system, which is planned, and Minister Varga has acknowledged this, that the competitiveness aspects will be examined, so this is indeed the case within the government. And I didn't just say that I would resent the uploads, or that I would question the liquidity problems of those municipalities, so that's not the case. I think that the abolition of this upload obligation, just as it was with business tax and corporate tax, is a welcome thing. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-196	Would anyone else like to speak up? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. No one has made any further comments and the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Böröcz, if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-02-25-197	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I would like to say very briefly that it is obviously difficult to find a contractor for certain investments in the current construction environment. But I think it is obviously in the interests of all of us, and this bill, that it is also in the interest of us to plan ahead of time for the public use charge that the government can impose or exempt from it under the law in the case of investments of particular public interest, and indeed, as Mr Balczó said, the government can make an individual decision on this. I understand the suggestion put forward by the Member, but I think that, obviously, every such investment still needs to be examined separately in order to give them this benefit at all or not. And I think that, obviously, if the government makes the right decision, it is a safety game rather than an abuse; I do not agree with the Member. I just want to say that, obviously, in the case of pre-planned procurement, tendering is what could mean the cheaper price, and obviously that is why it is necessary, through this law, both at the Ráday Street College and in all other such cases, when such investments arise, to make use of them in connection with investments of high public interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-198	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Mr Gulyás Gergely, Fidesz, László Böröcz, Fidesz, István Bajkai, Fidesz, and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, representatives T/9284. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The T/9284 in front of us now. The legislative proposal we have tabled contains a few amendments, and I would like to talk a little bit more about what these amendments are. First of all, we would amend the provisions concerning representatives of local governments who have obtained a mandate on the list, since, after the municipal elections, the representatives who obtained a mandate on the list often do not receive their credentials. The municipality may endanger the smooth functioning of the municipality at a later stage, which may result in a reduction of the electoral will if, in the event of the vacancy of the seat of its representatives, these persons cannot become representatives even if there are no other candidates on the list. In order to avoid such cases and to ensure the proportionate functioning of the electorate and the consequence of legal certainty, the regulation allows for the right to become a municipal representative. According to the bill, if the municipal representative elected from the list does not receive his credentials, for example because he has obtained a mandate on two compensatory lists and has to choose which place to accept after the vote, he will remain on the list as a candidate. If all candidates other than the candidates on the list who do not receive their credentials have been eliminated, they may obtain a mandate as representatives of the candidate who does not receive their credentials. These provisions will also apply to representatives of local governments and mayors who obtained a mandate on 13 October 2019 but who resigned before the entry into force of this bill if all candidates on the list are eliminated. In the following, we would amend the rules on conflicts of interest. The rules on conflicts of interest between municipal representatives and non-members of the committee and mayors are essentially laid down in the law on the local governments of Hungary. The regulation primarily classified public positions, mandates, positions and situations as incompatible with the mandate of municipal representatives or mayor, which could hinder impartial self-governments free from undesirable influences. The municipal law also defines the legal consequences of conflicts of interest. If the data subject does not resolve the conflict of interest within the legal period, the rules governing the conflict of interest procedure shall allow the body of representatives to determine the existence of a conflict of interest which results in the termination of the mandate of representatives of the municipality or mayor. Here, we would also amend the rules of conflict of interest for representatives of local governments and mayors of settlements with a full-time capacity of more than 3000 inhabitants, and the regulation aims to settle the situation with a transitional rule for the functioning of local governments, so that when all candidates have fallen from the list for even completely independent reasons, the electoral will expressed in elections can still prevail. Thus, we would amend a number of laws with this so-called salad law, but they all point in the same direction: the rules of conflict of interest and the settlement of the situation of the representatives who took the seats on the list, so that the rule of conflict of interest for the mayor of the settlement with a full-time capacity of more than 3000 inhabitants would be amended so that there is an exception under the amendment, there would be an extension of the legal relationship for the pursuit of health activities, not including the basic health care activity, since under the current rules, the main job mayor of the settlement with a population of more than 3000 inhabitants is the intellectual activity subject to scientific, educational, editorial, artistic and legal protection, as well as no other working relationship with the employment relationship of the foster parents, nor the personal contributor of an economic company. This exception list would be added to the legal relationship for the pursuit of health care activities, and I would like to say once again not to include basic health care, since basic health care also has municipal authority, and therefore we do not want any conflict of interest or conflict to arise here, so except for basic care, we would include health care as an exception. In essence, I wanted to list these four points and ask our fellow Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-200	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Pogácsás, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2020-02-25-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-25-202	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First up, Congressman Zoltán Kovács, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-203	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, T/9284 on the table of the House. Bill No.2 intends to amend the law on local governments of Hungary based on the experience of the years left behind, since this law came into force in 2011 and has been in force for almost a decade. Unfortunately, as the rapporteur has pointed out in repeated cases, there have been numerous instances in which municipal representatives who have obtained a mandate on the list have not received their credentials, but this practice could jeopardise the smooth functioning of local authorities, either by referring to the Constitution or the Fundamental Law. Furthermore, it is not negligible that the expression of the electoral will may also be offended. Dear fellow Members, However, in order to avoid these situations and to ensure the proper functioning of the electoral will, the legislator intends to enable the local government to become a representative. [[18.00]] The proposal submitted states that if the elected municipal representative fails to receive the mandate, his mandate will not be established, but he may remain on the list as a candidate. In this way, it may subsequently receive a mandate of its representatives if all the candidates on the list have been eliminated for any reason and cannot complete the mandate obtained from the list. The amendment of the proposal to this effect also effectively serves as a requirement for the smooth functioning of the municipality and for legal certainty, on the one hand, and a representation of the proportionality of the electoral will. Dear House, We must also address another important objective of the proposal before us, as the conflict of interest rules governing representatives of local governments, non-members of the committee and the full-time mayors will be clarified. The Mötv. 36. § 2 of the Act states which other activities may not be carried out by the representative of the local government or by a non-member of the committee of the body of representatives. It also provides for exceptions. As a result of the amendment, exceptions would include cases where a representative becomes a member of the supervisory or management board of an entity established by the State or operating with its ownership. If we are talking about a company established by or operating with the ownership of the local government, that person shall not participate in it as a member or as a personal contributor, nor shall he be entitled to be represented. Dear Parliament, According to the rules of conflict of interest applicable to the main job mayors of settlements with a population of more than three thousand inhabitants, the law has so far authorised, as an exception, only the legal relationship for other work under teaching, lecturing, editorial, artistic, legal, sports and other intellectual activities, as well as on the basis of the foster family relationship. According to the amendment, in the future, as another search for employment, elected mayors will also be able to establish a relationship for the pursuit of health activities, so that no one is hindered by the legislator in order to be able to pursue his lifesaving profession on a voluntary basis. One exception, however, is the text of the norm, which does not include the basic health care activity. This is also reasonable, since the basic health care provider has a contractual relationship with the municipality, i.e. his employer is the municipality itself. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals before us prove appropriate to remedy the difficulties encountered in practice, so that, for the future, the electoral will can be enforced while facilitating the smooth functioning of the municipalities. The Fidesz fraction supports the proposal submitted in the light of what was also stated in the initial statement by its author. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-25-204	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2020-02-25-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You're putting another smile on my face. Obviously, I will agree with the amendment of the rules on conflicts of interest, because this is indeed important, at least some of it, by tightening up the membership of the Supervisory Board. This is right, because it is good for the supervisory board to be able to operate independently of local authorities. So I think we're dealing with a standard salad law, which you always smuggle in nicely and basically could support the goals, but there's always a point in it that really brings a smile from the opposition benches. This is precisely that, while we know very well that, under the current legislation, the mayor of Győr could not be a full-time mayor in the field of health services, but the fact that this legislation has been tabled here removes the obstacle of continuing to pursue employment from there. So part of what is included in this legislation, in the bill before us, is eligible, and part of it cannot be named by Jobbik's group. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-206	Thank you very much. Congressman Gyula Molnár, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2020-02-25-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I, too, have had a bit of a break in my eye in the last one and a half-and-two-hour debate, and that kind of vehemence and momentum really subsided in me, I understood, as the folk language says, that we bell in two mills in this case; but to continue the confusion: then let us pour clean water into the open cards. The horse's feet are really hanging out here. Well, let's just say, obviously, a city of a hundred thousand can be run, if you're operating, if that's the condition, let's not freak out now, let's not get freaked out, let's not get freaked out. But here's the thing: right now, I see a lot of people don't have a place to play. So it's as if it's one of your assignments right now, obviously based on some sort of assignment. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: On the basis of a congressman's mandate!]] to try to find something to do at least in the state companies for the outdated or perhaps lower-ranking pro-government clientele. Now we don't know who this is, but obviously the papers are laid down, and believe me, in this respect, time will heal everything sooner or later, we will see who or who this law was designed for. But can I ask you something? Just friends, 'cause I don't want to give you any tips. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] You don't want to do the same thing on the other side of the local government, okay? So don't make it so everyone else can go to state after that, but then the local government... I see you've written down Congressman Nacsa. That's great. [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes.]] So let's not make it so that local representatives can't go to local companies for members of the FB, because that's gonna make it harder for the government parties. But to be honest, I really gave up, I'm not going to fight anymore, so let's not keep this house too late. I've got a quick list, too, so I don't want to be accused of talking about major investments, but I've been running it for the last 1 0 years. You guys remember when they brought you in that after the defense, you can't be mayor? Then they changed it. About who? Borkai. Because, you know, Borkai suddenly realized that he wanted to be mayor after all. Do you remember that the Attorney General can't be the one who's retired? The law has been amended. Péter Polt was 62 years old in 2017. Well, they pushed that rule fast, and Peter Polt could still be the Attorney General. György Szapáry. You can't be an ambassador over the age of 70. He wanted to be an ambassador, or I don't know, he was asked, obviously an excellent specialist, he was pushed, he was extended, he could be an ambassador. The same is István Töröcskei. The head of the State Debt Management Center can't be a banker, a banker. He's from a bank. It's okay, he wants to be, he's doing it right, we've changed this law, we've made it possible for him. Ildikó Vida is here. With five years of administrative practice, there must have been someone in the old curse of the IRS president. He didn't have it. It's okay, we'll erase this, let Vida Ildikó be president of the IPEH. László Domokos is here. It is not appropriate to transfer from a Member of Parliament to the office of President of the State Audit Office. They're pauzas. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. [[Zoltán Balczó: Serving!]] Yes, László Domokos is a good man, we pushed this law, we did it, it's okay. Here's L. Simon Laszlo. When Géza Szőcs didn't leave very gloriously, they asked for L. Simon. But he wanted to keep the National Cultural Fund. It seemed a little inconvenient to have someone sitting on the money and, by the way, he's the political leader, but it doesn't matter, we threw this thing out, we did this, L. Simon could keep both. Now, I don't want to put it on long, the point is that there's still one principle, and they're doing it very nicely: the Fidesz doesn't have to follow the law, and then the law is adapted to the Fidesz. Thank you very much, good luck, good work, congratulations.
u2020-02-25-208	Congressman Gergely Arató, head speaker of DK.
u2020-02-25-209	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, has forgotten that someone cannot be Deputy State Secretary without a diploma, but if we do, we will change the law. [[Gyula Molnár's intervention.]] I'm sorry, I get it, it's okay. Dear House, The thing is, I can go on about the same way. There was a municipal election on October 13th. Those who started on it knew what the rules of the game were, what the rules of conflict of interest were, what they couldn't do, what they couldn't do. But if Mr. Borkai in Győr has to resign because of his specific excursions, and Fidesz finds a candidate who, by the way, thinks as an excellent cardiologist, is free to be mayor at halftime, and otherwise keeps his job... I'm gonna remember the job that you're doing well in, and I'm sure everyone would have been better off if you'd stayed there as a cardiologist. But he wants to do both, well, it's okay, we're gonna get him into the law a little bit. [[18.10]] I'd like to appoint a municipal representative or an external committee member to a state firm, well, that's okay, we're gonna put you in the law a little bit. Of course, the opposition mayors and sub-Mayors are being harassed because of the tradition that has existed for a thousand years and, by the way, the earlier position of the Ministry of the Interior, already on the basis of the earlier opinion of the Ministry of Interior of Pintér, they are taking part in the board and supervisory board of municipal companies, where they clearly represent municipal interests, let us not care about this; but, if something has to be settled here with friends, then we will make a legislative amendment here. What else? Oh, yeah, don't forget: we didn't manage to compile the list, we didn't get what you thought, we ran out of available representatives, we didn't win enough individuals, we did, because the opposition won, we couldn't expect that, I understand that; it's okay, let's rewrite the rules, so let's say we can ban someone from giving up the list, and then if they change their mind later, they can still get back on the list, then we'll replace it there, of course, so it also applies to the one who has resigned. Now, obviously, I am not well-educated, and the rapporteur, Commissioner, can tell me by name what this lucky man is called, for whose sake he is put into the law. [[László Böröcz: Gergely Arató!]] No, I'm not gonna give you this pleasure to cancel. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] especially because Members of Parliament are not yet subject to this rule, so no. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Zsolt Gréczy! Zsolt Gréczy! The president's ringing the bell.]] But if there will be one when there will surely be a fellow Member who will resign and then want to sit back, then there will certainly be a legislative amendment to it, if, of course, if it is fidesz. So, ladies and gentlemen, what I really can tell you is that we can pretend that if we can take this bill seriously, it's like it's really about trying to solve some terrible problem because people are lining up in front of the city hall and crying. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] so that one of the Fidesz Members can still sit on a board of directors somewhere else, but obviously not so, the purpose of this legislation is to deal with the social problems of various Fidesz colleagues. I understand all this, and I feel for them, but don't expect us to vote for it like this. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-210	Dear House, The LMP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, We've had some good times here in the last few minutes, and I often thought we should cry. After lex Baranyi, the lex Dézsi Act was passed, which can be treated with humor, or even be angry, you will shove it down our throats, because there are two thirds of you, and you will change the law as you please, as your current interests or the interests of those in your ranks wish. It was the earlier justification, or I don't know what to call it, that the mayors of the settlements over 3,000 have so much to do that they can't, they can't fill other jobs. I agree with that, I think that the under 3,000 people have a lot of work to do, but really, running a big city, even a city with county rights, is no small task. Don't you have enough work to do? Or how is someone going to perform some sort of health care, medical duties, and mayor's duties? I guess maybe the deputy mayor will help him. Or is there little pay for these mayors who can work in health care or work in health care? Then let's give more. I don't think that's such a big problem either. But why should there be a distinction between professions? Then I'd be interested in that. Then why shouldn't a designer plan? For example, I have a Fidesz mayor friend who's a designer; well, then let's give him the opportunity to plan. Why? Why shouldn't he? ! I don't understand. So basic supply... I mean, what the municipality is financing, you can't plan there, otherwise let it plan. Or if someone's a lawyer, let them lawyer up next to him. Why not? ! Why shouldn't he be doing justice? ! So we're very fond of these bill proposals that you're submitting to us here, and two-thirds of us, we know, always get that, and we're gonna be really screwed up about what we're talking about here, but, uh, gentlemen and ladies, the horse's foot is really hanging out again. This is once again a law that the opposition has difficulty in stomaching, and I think the faction leader will confirm that this LMP faction will certainly not support. So let's not do this now that if there's any personal interest happening again the day after tomorrow, you're gonna make another law. Of course, it is always done by Members in general so that there is no debate about it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Here's the debate! Here's the debate.]] , social consultation or something. Now, here in Parliament, we can say our opinions, laugh, get angry at each other by temperament, then come the two-thirds vote, shove it down our throats, and hurrah, once again, promise someone something that's been held up. It's our destiny. However, we are giving our opinion because this is not good, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-02-25-212	Now, Congressman László Keresztes, please.
u2020-02-25-213	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, let's not be so strict, because it was announced before the election that this was the only way they could cast a candidate in Győr, that they had promised him in advance that this amendment would be done if he won the election. At the same time, do not expect us to support it, because we believe that it is not possible to change the rules of an election afterwards, going backwards after the election, that is in no way acceptable. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In fact, that is not what many of my fellow Members have said that this lex Dezsi, in fact, I would take advantage of the fact that the anointed Secretary of State of the political area, Mr Pogácsás, is here, and I would like to ask him. I have a concern, a legal concern about the bill, and here I am looking at the national representatives to explain the situation. So, specifically, the bill is 28. §2 of the Act changes with the addition of a new paragraph (2), which refers to the fact that if the Member has obtained a mandate on a list and does not take up his credentials, he should not have a mandate as a representative and should be considered to be on the list later, so that he may be given the mandate. At the same time, it seems very much that this is contrary to the remaining paragraph (1), which is about the creation of a mandate letter by election, so with the vote itself and the end of the vote, the legal relationship of representatives is actually established, and the non-receiving of the credentials can be regarded as a waiver from the mandate, so in Hungarian: the mandate of representatives is created with the election and with the vote. It seems to me that this is a very serious contradiction between the new paragraph (2) and the remaining paragraph (1). Otherwise, if the remaining paragraph (1) was amended in this way, then there is a good chance that it would be against the law, so this solution was obviously not too obvious. If we look at the conflict of interest rules, we cannot agree here in a significant part, so we do not think that such harmful concentrations should be created. Obviously, on the basis of principle, now that this is the only point in the proposal, we would not be able to support it. This bill therefore, in addition to the fact that a declarantly personalised legislation is well-proclaimed, creates such fundamental and even legal problems that we will not be able to support it in any way. And then I just want to say one more thing. Here, Congressman Gyula Molnár and Gergely Arató took stock of the examples of personalised legislation, but I do recall that the case of Paul Schmitt was left out. I would definitely like to add that to the list. Obviously, he could not be left on the side of the road, and then they made sure that the former head of state could only be adjusted by two-thirds, so Fidesz made sure that this could not be withdrawn in the event of a later change of course. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-02-25-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, last but not least, they shot all the jokes about it, so I don't want to repeat my fellow Members. I would like to congratulate the communication guru of Fidesz, because this nice, sophisticated wording, as they put forward this bill, and it's not about what it's about, well, it's really a unique job. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So I really want to congratulate him, it was a good job. The municipal representative elected from the list, and the conflict of interest here... I don't know who the, lex, so we'll find out in a few weeks who these laws are written on, but, well, you can also perform health care activities, yes, this lex Dezsi. I'm sure you don't want to do this, but let's go over why this lex Dezsi had to be born, at least then we should have so much pleasure in repeating why we had to choose a new mayor in Győr. Well, that's because your former mayor Borkai, who proclaims Christian values, was on a cocaine field trip with prostitutes, and we all saw what happened, and if all is true, then you knew this before the election, but interestingly, no ethical examination, no action has been taken in this regard that he might not be the one to be launched in municipal elections, but how is this compatible with Christian values? That didn't happen. [[18.20]] I'd like to add, as party leader, that if I found out something like this had been done in our party, I'd run an ethical investigation against him in the party. I don't fully understand why this didn't happen in Fidesz, and I understand that you knew about this case. Now, after that happened, they started him in the municipal elections, and then this case came up, and they found out that it was happening, and they still thought that the pro-government media would keep this quiet, and then smooth this thing out, and nothing would happen, and it wouldn't affect the case. It didn't happen, but that's why media publicity worked at some level, especially thanks to the Internet. It's not because of the pro-government media, because in the first few weeks, they've completely silenced this case. Then, after that was found out, and there were voices within Fidesen saying that he shouldn't go, we should call the mayor back, so they decided that it was just because we still have to go through the mayor's campaign, so in this form, this case, because if it doesn't happen, this mayor's place will be taken away for Fidesz. So by throwing away all morals, throwing away all morality, you just went through this campaign with this man to keep the position. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You with Jobbik!]] And then, when the election took place, and despite that, the mayor won the election, right, when he had the chance, when he had the chance, political opportunity, they re-elected the election, but we had to find someone who was fit to win the election in Győr. Now, here we are, and that's why we have to accept this lex Dezsi, because we've managed to find a man who's probably only on that condition who's going to run for mayor. So this whole story is how to say everything, but it's not as sublime and as beautiful as the Fidesz MEPs here have said in the explanatory statement. For this reason, because of these concerns, we are certain that we will not support this proposal, and once again, I am curious about what specific Fidesz Members are affected by the list amendment and the conflict of interest here, but we will find out. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2020-02-25-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Several questions have been raised here in relation to medical activity or medicine. We don't want to ban anyone from saving lives. Obviously, that was the intention of the law. When you talk about it, and Gyula Molnár went out, but Congressman Gyula Molnár talked about who needs to fill places, missing places, so remember, in the capital, your first step was to raise everyone's salary. Board members, supervisory board members, and then like this: Draskovics, Lakos, Bodnár, Vágó, Magyar György, Kolbert, Tordai Csaba, Gál J. Zoltán, Atkári János, so you have collected a nice list of names, Gergely Christmas and the Dialogue and the entire opposition coalition. It is also interesting when, although we have repeatedly condemned Zsolt Borkai and himself in such a moral sense, you have never condemned how Gergely Christmas excuses Martin Gyöngyösi's listing and so on. You're obviously silent about this as party director because that's how you said your speech, you didn't initiate an ethical procedure in any way, that Gergely Christmas excuses the listing of Jews. That's not what the tree said. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-25-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-25-219	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I always knew that there were such lex Fidesz-kader laws, but Gyula Molnár said such an impressive list, that I wanted to add: because before lex Dezsi, which was the last one? The lex is Zsófia Rácz! So, when without a degree, for which you've given a degree, you've had enough three years of college training, you could now be appointed Deputy State Secretary. Let me tell Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the suggestion has been made here several times that not even an apology has been made about the Jewish listing of Márton Gyöngyösi. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] I was the chairman at the time. His whole thought was about citizenship. That dual citizenship should be made public. Yes, indeed, in the last ten seconds he used the expression "Jewish nationalities"! That night, he apologized immediately. So I want to make it clear, because it has been said, not by you, that you haven't even apologized. He asked, he followed for this incorrect wording, and it concerned citizenship so much that in Zsolt Németh, who replied, there was no indignation in this area, but later, studying the text, it turned out that evening that, oops, please, he did not say it in the end as he did in his entire speech. So, for the record, let me add this. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-25-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask you, I have further intention of speaking on behalf of my fellow Members. Would anyone else like to speak on the agenda? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask my fellow Member if he wishes to respond to what has been said on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2020-02-25-221	Very briefly, Mr. President. In the debate, even here, representatives of Jobbik received positive feedback on conflict of interest rules. By the way, I didn't say you didn't apologize, only in parentheses, I didn't say that, I was referring to the Mayor's words. So that's where we feel some kind of support. Several raised the case of the mayor of Győr and the question of the mayor's conflict of interest. The answer we have here is that we don't want to ban anyone from saving their lives. We don't think that's gonna be a problem. Therefore, it is not the basic provision that has been included in order not to involve any conflict or conflict of interest with the tasks of the local government. We believe that this is a correct change if saving lives in this way, among the exceptions, where scientific, artistic, literary and other activities are included, is included in the exceptions. I would ask that you support the amendment of conflict of interest rules and the extension of exceptions, as I would like to thank the Fidesz and KDNP fractions for their support. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-02-25-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address with the title of the responsibility of the government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-25-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have just been listening to a debate for almost three hours on a bill, and there have been a lot of arguments and counter-arguments about the scope, possibilities and operation of the municipalities, and how the central government should be able to provide resources for the local government's tasks. In many respects, my speech after the agenda relates to this subject on a very, very sad point, and it is also a very important element of the situation in the countryside, which the Fidesz government has practically forgotten, and it can be seen that the problems that have been observed before 2010 are a large reduction in the chances of small settlements in rural areas, which continue in the same way during the Fidesz government, which claims to be national and has a sensitivity to the countryside, at least at rhetorical level. Well, what happened was a terrible case, on February 2nd this year in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, Toszzegen, a 62-year-old man died, simply because of the poor quality road to the residential area that the ambulances couldn't get out because of the poor quality muddy road. [[18.30]] There are 60 people living in this area, specifically, and they've been through several times that the ambulances couldn't get out because of bad weather conditions, so what happened was that the ambulances at a gas station waited for an SUV to get to the patient to help, but because of the extremely bad road, they could only get there in 15 minutes, and they couldn't help the person involved, and unfortunately he died. There was a great deal of confusion about this case, and the mayor of the settlement made a statement on television and said that in their own way they were trying to maintain the municipal roads, this particular route, to keep it in order, but the tens of millions of resources needed to do so are, of course, not available for the local government's small settlement. I travel a lot in the countryside, not only in rural cities, but also in small towns and small villages, and here I have experienced a lot of similar problems, in terms of public roads and municipal roads, a lot of small town leaders have reported that they have already been warned that if they fail to achieve something in connection with the road repair, the ambulance will not be able to get there, the police car will not be able to get in, in many places the garbage transport is no longer solved, because small settlement roads are in a terrible state. In particular, this tragic case has now occurred in connection with a municipal road, but I think that if we link it to the fact that the municipalities can operate according to how much central resources they receive, especially small local municipalities in difficult areas, then there is basically the direct responsibility of the government. That is why I asked Minister Palkovic a question about the extent of the government's responsibility. I have drawn the Minister's attention in advance, the minister who answers almost nothing, and appoints Mr Schanda Secretary of State to respond to everything, that it is absolutely amazing, Mr Schanda Secretary of State, in any direction I try to ask any question, in my opinion, in serious violation of the dignity of the Parliament, always responds with some sort of party political splash. Unfortunately, that's what I was experiencing in this case. I asked a very simple question that the government has any idea of how many settlements are in a similar situation, so that the infrastructure is of such poor quality that it already threatens to get to the rescue, disaster control or the police; there is any statistics by the government that show how many such cases have occurred in the country, that these most important services have not been delivered to the target, because the infrastructure is already so terrible; and that the government takes this situation into account and tries to make a substantial contribution to renovating the road network in the countryside. And when I specifically asked that, in the case of municipalities, the government is aware that there is no source in the budget of the municipalities for such more serious investments, what the government can do to ensure that this situation does not result in a tragedy, because of bad municipal funding, I also asked this question, and Mr Schanda, State Secretary, simply replied that this is a municipal task. What is shocking in the answer is that you specifically quoted to me, Mr Secretary of State, how much money they spend on renovating the rural road network, and that, for example, the Hungarian village programme provided 8 billion forints to the municipalities in 2019 to solve their road renovations. This is quite amazing, by the way, for the restoration of public roads in the same programme, 50 billion are available, which is enough to renovate 450 kilometers of lower road, even though 17,000 kilometers of roads await immediate renovation, so these are in the wrong or the wrong category, and the municipal roads are in a much worse situation. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow members of the Government, of whom I do not actually see anyone in the Chamber and also of the members of the Government, to the fact that it is indeed the government's responsibility to provide resources for these extremely important investments and services to the municipalities, because not only can it be stopped by breaking down the countryside, but it is not possible to prevent tragedies that are rightfully disrupting an entire country. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-25-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
