u2020-06-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I salute my fellow Members. Good afternoon. The commemoration of the Parliament on the 4th of June is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome, everyone, to our meeting today. Dear Parliament, I ask you to stand up and welcome President János Áder, as well as the national flag and historical flags. [[President and guests of the Republic János Áder enter the decorative box. The people in this room stand up. The commanding officer shall enter through the entrance to the President's pulpit and request permission from the chairman of the Chamber to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the five historical flags will be on both sides of the presidential pulpit. The decorator bearing the national flag shall stand in the middle of the Chamber. The commander of the decorative guard will take his place before the pulpit. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Please take your seats. Dear House, Today's Memorial Day meeting will take place 100 years after the bells rang in historic Hungary on 4 June 1920, the sirens of the factories sounded, the flags were set to half mast, and mourning breaks were ordered in schools and offices. Today we remember Trianon, the tragedy caused by the Trianon peace dictate, one of the most painful griefs in our nation's thousand-year history, but we are shaping our present and future in the spirit of the joy of national solidarity. With great respect and special respect, I welcome President János Áder and his dear wife. I salute Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the members of the government [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] I salute Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the members of the government [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] I salute Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the members of the government [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] Mr. Speaker László Fat (Applause from the pro-government ranks. ), Mrs. Katalin Szili, former Speaker of Parliament, founding President of the Hungarian Representatives Forum in the Carpathian Basin (Applause.) , the Members of Parliament and of the European Parliament, the nationalists, Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia (Applause) Mr. Péter Polt, Attorney General (Applause from the pro-government ranks. ), Mr Kozma Ákos ombudsman (Applause) Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office (Applause from the pro-government ranks). ) and all those who are monitoring our festive session today. With special respect to Hungarians living beyond our borders, who, despite the difficulties and trials of the last hundred years, have remained in their homeland to preserve their Hungarians and to increase our nation. [[Long-lasting, big round of applause.]] Without them, not just us, but the states around us would also be poorer. I would have been happy to welcome representatives of foreign Hungarians here in the House of the country, but unfortunately, the corona virus epidemic does not allow us to look to the future together at today's meeting on the day of national integration. If not in body, but by means of the political declaration made by the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin, the representatives of the Hungarians scattered around the world are also with us in spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, Almost 30 years ago, just a few days after the election of József Antall, Prime Minister, at the third national meeting of the MDF, at the dawn of the Central and Eastern European system changes, he said that he wanted to be 15 million Hungarian prime ministers in spirit and feeling. With this one sentence, the late Prime Minister has essentially set out the direction and priorities of the post-system change national policy. However, some more than two decades had to pass before this thought reached the highest level. The Fundamental Law adopted in 2011 in the submission of the second Orbán government states that Hungary, bearing in mind the unity of the united Hungarian nation, bears responsibility for the fate of Hungarians living outside the border. Perhaps the most tangible result of this responsibility is the extension of citizenship ten years ago, thereby bringing the nation together under public law. Of the people living in the diaspora, 160,000 became citizens in the Carpathian Basin thanks to simplified naturalization. In total, 1 million 100 thousand of our fellow nations have become our fellow countrymen with voting rights. [[A round of applause from government parties, Jobbik, LMP, Dialogue and Independents.]] To them, honourable Members, we have managed to give back something that once belonged to them unquestionedly. Public unity, however, is only the basis of a strong spiritual, ideal community, which must be transformed into a real consensual community by the actions of everyday life, because only such a community can guarantee that its members, by preserving their mother tongue, by cultivating their culture, by planning a family and a future in their homeland, will be faithful to their nation, while they become valuable citizens of the countries in which they live in the spirit of mutual respect. This mutual respect is what was most lacking at the peace conference in Paris, and that was what rejected the seeds of peacelessness and war for many decades. In our actions today we hope that the commemorations of the centenary year will take place throughout the Carpathian Basin in a spirit of respect and understanding, and that they will not ignite the pyre of enmity against Hungarians still in many places under the ash. We would like this ember to be permanently extinguished, and with the faith and willpower of our predecessors, we would be able to continue unbroken towards our future here in the Carpathian Basin. [[10.40]] Following the forwarding of these ideas, a consolidated debate on the proposal for a political declaration on the protection of national identity will be launched. Proposal for a political declaration by the representatives of Kövér László fideszes, Semjén Zsolt KDNP, Potápi Árpád János fideszes, Pánczél Károly fideszes, Harrach Péter KDNP, Kocsis Máté fideszes, Zsigmond Barna Pál and Németh Zsolt Fideszes. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the text of the political statement. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-1	Parliament's political statement on the protection of national identity. On the 30th anniversary of the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin as elected representatives and representative political bodies of 12 million Hungarians living in the states of the region, the Parliament makes the following political declaration on the 100th anniversary of the peace agreements closing World War I and the 30th anniversary of the democratic system changes in Central and Eastern Europe: 1. It is a historical fact that, in the framework of the peace agreements closing World War I, the Hungarians living in the European homeland of their thousand years have been deprived of their right to national self-determination, as a result of which three out of every ten Hungarian-speaking people, i.e. nearly 3.3 million Hungarians, along with their homeland, have been placed under the jurisdiction of other states, where a century of changing state formations and a declining number of souls live today. 2. It is a statistical fact that while the number of non-Hungarians living in Hungary's territory increased from 4,935,000 people recorded in the 1787 census to 8,515,000 according to the census data of 1910, the number of Hungarians who came under the jurisdiction of the neighbouring countries of Hungary between 1920 and 2011, according to census data, from 3,278 000 to 2,090,000. 3. CHAPTER XX After centuries of ordeals, ethnic cleansing attempts against Hungarian communities in the Carpathian Basin outside the borders of Hungary, ethnic Homogenisation efforts, and democratic changes in the system in 1990, despite the social and economic difficulties in the region, foreign Hungarians maintained their national identity rooted in their mother tongue, culture and homeland, with painful losses, sacrifices and great achievements. In the Carpathian Basin, Hungarians are still a relative national majority, and most people speak Hungarian in the region. This ethnic situation also places a special responsibility for the Hungarian state and the responsible political forces of Europe in the historical shaping of the fate of the Carpathian Basin. 4. For a century in the Carpathian Basin, Hungarians living under the authority of the neighbouring countries of Hungary have remained faithful to their homeland and to the Hungarian nation by becoming loyal and valuable citizens and communities of the countries in which they live. Three decades ago, the Hungarians living abroad in the Carpathian Basin fought peacefully for their rights in a period in which Europe was not free from violent ethnic interests, either through constitutional means. Foreign Hungarians are an active supporter of the Euroatlantic integration and integration efforts of all states in the region, and they contribute in an indispensable way through their political interests to the maintenance of geopolitical stability and interethnic peace in the region. Nevertheless, Hungarian communities in certain countries neighbouring Hungary have been constantly confronted with a number of forms of discrimination over the last three decades. Discrimination also applies in the areas of central and regional development public policy, the return of individual and community property abducted during the communist period, education rights, mother tongue rights, rights to participate in public administration and justice, and political public speaking. It is often seen that the public authorities of some countries deliberately intimidate or humiliate members and leaders of Hungarian communities abroad. Similarly, the victims of frequent discrimination are Hungarians from abroad, even when the rights granted to them in law and other legislation are violated in practice and their effective implementation is hindered. 5. National diversity is not a source of danger but a resource for all nations and states in Europe as a whole and in the Central Eastern European region. In order to achieve this, the States of the region must recognise, in the spirit of Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union, the right to national identity as a fundamental human right and jointly define the right to national identity as a fundamental human right in accordance with Article XXI of the Treaty on European Union. The political and legal content, as well as the law thus determined, that responds to the challenges of the 20th century, should be given in practice to national communities living in numbers and minorities in their territory. [[10.50]] 6. In Eastern Central Europe and in the Carpathian Basin, it is not by changing state borders, but by changing state policy, by providing legal and political means that effectively and modernly guarantee the right to national identity, that the survival of the homeland can be increased for all, which is a prerequisite for the safety and well-being of the people living in the region. 7. In Eastern Central Europe and in the Carpathian Basin, the long-term guarantee of security, political and social stability, economic development and prosperity can be guaranteed by the recognition of the right to national identity by all citizens of all national states and their communities, i.e. by allowing their predecessors to inherit their mother tongue, culture and homeliness and to pass all this on to their offspring. The alienation from the mother tongue and culture and the loss of the home of the homeland and forced emigration from the homeland in our globalised world are the most immediate threats to all nations and national states in the region. 8. In view of the above, we call on the parliaments of the Eastern Central European and the Carpathian Basin state-making nations to jointly initiate the recognition of the right to national identity as a fundamental human right at the United Nations and European international organisations. 9. We call on the parliaments of the Eastern Central European and the Carpathian Basin states to make the right to national identity a constitutional fundamental right and guarantee it in practice for all indigenous national communities living in the territory of their states. Like the solution contained in Hungary's Fundamental Law, in addition to the national communities living in the majority, they should also grant the indigenous national communities living in a number minority, which meet the defined conditions, a constitutional status. 10. We call on the European Commission to initiate binding EU legislation on national, ethnic and linguistic minority protection proposals launched in 2013 by the Federal Union of European Nationalities, as well as on more than 50 million members of indigenous national communities living in numbers in the EU Member States, as well as European taxpayers and voters. 11. We call on the citizens of the Member States of the European Union to support the ongoing European citizens' initiative to strengthen the economic and cultural development of European regions in the Szekler National Council. 12. We call on the institutions of the European Union and of the Council of Europe to support the aspirations of the parliaments of the European States which are set out in Annex XXI to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the 18th century, they want to make the right to national identity part of universal human rights.
u2020-06-04-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, the author of the political declaration on the protection of national identity, to give his opening speech. With all due respect, I'd like you to come to the stand, Mr. President. Mr President, you have the floor.
u2020-06-04-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable President of the Republic. Prime Minister! Fellow Members! Dear House, Dear compatriots, There were three reasons why the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin had three reasons for adopting the political declaration just now, and, together with my fellow Members, we are proposing to this House for the same three reasons. These three reasons lie in the past, present and future. The tragedy caused by the Trianon dictatorship is not only a historical past sealed and closed several times by international treaties, but also a continuous present living with us, which may, if not desired, become a recurring future. As long as the foreign Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin have to struggle bitterly to preserve their adopted mother tongue, culture and homeland, the Trianon decision is not a closed chapter of the history books, but an open present issue involving the entire Hungarian nation, living with us. And the Hungarian future can only be safe if all present and future Hungarian generations, our children, our grandchildren and the following learn from the Trianon story in their own hearts and minds that they can always have what they can protect. Anyone who doesn't recognize the danger, in ignorance, or in comfort from laziness, or from sacrifice, in fear of effort, is not willing and able to defend what is his will be lost. In the future, our ancestors may have done so in the past a hundred years ago. Dear House, As far as this past is concerned, we consider the most important facts, the timing of events and the causal relationship, which in 1920 led to the loss of two thirds of the territory of historical Hungary and to the imposition of three of the ten members of the Hungarian nation, i.e. one third of the nation, under the control of foreign powers. We Hungarians today cannot change the past, we can only try to change the most painful consequences of it. However, we only have a chance of doing so if we learn from the past. What are the lessons, honourable Members, that we should draw from the Trianon dictatorship? Allow me, in the spirit of the political declaration proposed for adoption, to offer three such lessons to the attention of this House. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Hungarian nation does not exist, there are only Hungarian masters. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the chroniclers, this was, among other things, what France's representative said in 1920 at the peace talks in preparation for the Trianon decision, and he wanted to help with the most bloody scenarios according to which the First World War winners would have turned Budapest into a city state, and the entire territory of the losing Hungary, so the remaining one third, would have been divided among the neighbouring countries in the same way as they did with the two thirds of them. Those who seek to loot and eliminate must first be questioned for their mere existence, their identity destroyed. That is the motive and essence of national denial, honourable Members. It was once, and so it is today. The difference is that a hundred years ago, only the existence of the Hungarian nation was questioned by the contemporary winners, and today those who think they are strong enough and eternal winners challenge the existence of all the nations of Europe. These economic and political interest groups across national borders and continents now consider the existence of French, German, Romanian, Slovak, Serbian or any other European nation to be questionable. They are doing this because they need Europe's resources because they want to be financially indebted, economically subjugated, culturally and technologically colonised, and they want to have full political control of Europe, and in all their efforts, the mere existence of European nations and national states to protect them is an obstacle to them. So one of the lessons is that the idea of self-determination of nations was buried in a grave with the thousand-year-old country of the Hungarians at the time of birth, and the poisonous flower of national denial bloomed on the grave, which, as an indestructible weed, is increasingly aggressively covering our lands. [[11.00]] The threat to our nation has not passed or even strengthened, but it threatens those who have defeated us for a hundred years, and we must shape our policy accordingly. Another lesson, ladies and gentlemen, is that it can always be a serious cost if we do not pay enough attention to what is happening around us in the world if we ignore the geopolitical perspective. For historical reasons Hungarian politics is the strength of public thinking, not geopolitical. This has not always been the case, one of the virtues of our Árpád-house rulers was the ability to think in geographical space, the outside outlook, insight and proper response. After Mohács, however, our ability to do so was limited, so that the 19th century was limited. In the second half of the 20th century, Hungary's politics was barely felt. The Hungarian political elite at the time of the settlement, if any, could not find a valid answer at the XIX. At the beginning of the 20th century, Hungary's security interests were tied to the dualist Monarchy, whose survival was linked to less and less internal and external interests. Consequences: 600 thousand dead Hungarian soldiers in the First World War, 1 million 200 thousand disarmed and winded Hungarian soldiers in November 1918, and a few weeks later, not more than 200,000 foreign soldiers from all directions of the wind rose, who from Christmas 1918 until June 4, 1920 mauled the defenseless historical Hungary. The responsibility of policy is the strictest result responsibility, honourable Members. There's never any way to get out, it's always about the results. Every rescue or explanatory circumstance, the lost war, the decades before internal disintegration and external hostile minework, the crimes of some national and national traitorous politicians that did not lapse in November 1918, the accumulation of the Bolshevik terrorist group funded from abroad in the spring of 1919, the arrogance and narrowness of educated Western politicians, all of this is extremely important and instructive, but it is indifferent to the results of politics. The result is Trianon. And Trianon is synonymous not only with the pain caused by historical injustice in the past, not only with the collective remorse of us living in the present, how we allowed this to happen to us, but also with the command for the future: this cannot happen to us again! Dear House, The third Trianon lesson is closely related to the previous one: the international arena is lonely, without allies. We Hungarians here in the Carpathian Basin, in the periphery of German and Slavic people, in the conflict of the sphere of great powers, have been inclined to feel that we are alone for a thousand years. This sense of life from our linguistic and cultural characteristics is not unfounded, but let us not forget: in the last hundred years, we have not only been alone, but sometimes the other Central European nations have also been affected by solitude. In 1920, the winning Western powers threw only us Hungarians on the butcher of history to dismember us, but in 1938 they basically did the same to Czechoslovakia and then the Baltic States and Poland, and after 1947 the West put everyone in the region to Stalin as conceivably. In Trianon, the Hungarian state was condemned to inability to live, the Hungarian nation to tear apart, and Hungary to political solitude. The Hungarians' one-century of sacrifices made the Hungarian state viable, and the nation's cross-border affiliation proved stronger than the forces that wanted to eliminate it in a hundred years. For a long time, and especially in the relations between the nations in the Carpathian Basin, it was the rule that if a nation wept, its neighbors would laugh in general, and vice versa: if they won, others would have to be losers. Signs of time show, fellow Members, that during the period of globalism ahead of us, all of this will change. In the Carpathian Basin and wider Central and Eastern Europe, the nations living together and side by side will laugh together or weep together. We're gonna be winners together, or we're all gonna be losers. In the region, or in cooperation with each other, we preserve our national states, our language and our culture, or we are all being turned out of all this and alienated from our homeland, our states are being reduced into imperial tax-collecting governorships, our mother tongue is being reduced to a cuisine language, and our own national culture is being forgotten by us. The countries of our region are only likely to act together on this. We Hungarians who lost XX. We don't want to lose 21st century. However, we do not want our neighbours who won a hundred years ago to lose them; not only because we are a chivalrous nation, but also because we are not in our interest. We don't want to deceive anyone in Trianon's case, least of all ourselves. Trianon's legacy to us is XXI. For us today, this heritage is about the fate, the future and the survival of our two million Hungarian people as Hungarians in Hungary. Between the two world wars, our ancestors tried to make a territorial revision through great authority arbitration. We know it wasn't a solution. After the Second World War, in the four decades of communism, Trianon's solution to Hungarian Hungarians wrote a recipe for self-destruction and for Hungarians abroad. The patient survived despite the treatment, but the damage didn't go away. After 1990, the joint Euroatlantic accession of the countries of the region offered a chance to overcome the Trianon problem. Those who believed that the European Union, which looked at itself as an area of freedom, human rights and democracy and operated various models of national autonomy in its Member States, would help to solve the national problems in the region were disappointed. In the proposed declaration for adoption, Hungarian elected political representatives from two million foreign countries in the Carpathian Basin have spelled out precisely the types of violation and discrimination that Hungarian communities are still victims of today. Although the European Union does not provide an automatic solution, it is a chance for us to work things out together without external pressure and threat. A century after Trianon, today's proposed declaration on the Hungarian side attempts to initiate a new solution and to find allies; to find allies primarily in neighbouring nations and states, and to find allies among the other nations and states of Europe. The struggle of foreign Hungarians for their right to national identity is a European matter, my fellow Members; it is a European matter, because, in the times ahead, there is, in essence, a similar struggle for identity for all European nations as it has been for the hundred years of foreign Hungarians, even if many people in Europe, especially in the western part of Europe, are not aware of it, but more and more people are aware of the stakes of their national identity struggles. In the world power field, Europe and the European Union cannot achieve their strategic sovereignty only by means of political or economic self-determination or military self-defense. Effective European self-defense also requires the foundation of identity. Europeans need to know what, why and how they are Europeans. There is no such foundation, nor can it be built permanently without the norm of two millennia of Christian faith and centuries of national cultures. Europe's borders last as long as the graveyards have crosses. Europe will remain itself as long as European national communities live and shape its destiny decisively. If all of this changes, Europe will have a minority in its own territory. Dear fellow Members, But what kind of life is part of those who are deprived of their collective rights, but who are subjected to collective punishment, whose mother tongue is called the devil's language, whose names are changed, who are punished for the use of their own symbols, who are taken away from their national affiliations of their free will, whose history is taken away, their historical memories, their cemeteries are destroyed or looted? [[11.10]] What kind of lives do those who once kidnapped their individual and community possessions in dictatorships in a few weeks, but in the democracies of the last thirty years, they have not even recovered a fraction of all that has been stolen from them, even in spite of the law passed by that state? What is the life that comes to those against whom others can constantly instigate in the history books, against whom others can use hate speech unpunished, who, purely because of their national affiliation, have been considered a potential enemy, a threat to national security by any representative of their own state? A Hungarian minority from abroad, my fellow Members, which has been like this for a century in the middle of Europe. In 1937 Sándor Makkai, the Reformed Bishop of Transylvania, said in his disturbing discussion entitled "Can't be" that minority fate is not only a political, but also a moral impossibility. He believes that the more time passes, the more and more obstacles to the political solution will roll. As he writes, I cannot imagine any humane arrangement of minority existence, because I consider the so-called minority category to be unworthy and spiritually impossible. Similarly to these claims, the poet Sándor Hopenik gave a racially significant answer, which may be because he must become known by his title. He claims that life, despite all the circumstances, is not just a reality, but a feasible quality, not only a gift, but a task that must be taken on. A hundred years ago, our fellow nations from abroad have been grinding among these millstones of spiritual duality. The hard-to-esteem financial losses, the invaluable spiritual grievances from the humiliations were able to survive by the Hungarians from abroad, because although they have been haunted every sundown for a hundred years, the truth is not possible, but in their communities every sunrise of the next day may be stronger, because they must have historical age orders. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, allow me today, on 4 June 2020 on behalf of the Hungarian State, to express our deepest gratitude and highest appreciation to our national communities torn apart in Trianon for their centuries of standing, loyalty to the Hungarian nation and their homeland, not to the fact that they have become loyal and valuable citizens of those states whose history has forced them under its jurisdiction. Dear House, Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union states that the Union respects the equality of Member States before the Treaties and their national identity, which is an integral part of their basic political and constitutional arrangements, including regional and local authorities. This basic EU document therefore uses the word "national identity" and recognises and guarantees it as a right in the relationship between the European Union and its Member States. However, neither in the Treaty cited nor in other EU legal sources have the concept of national identity so far been defined as politically and legally understandable, life-like and understandable. The proposed statement before you today, which is proposed for adoption, is trying to make up for this lack. It sets out a proposal for definition which could make a substantial contribution to the forthcoming EU debate on the future of Europe. If the European Union guarantees the national identity of the Member States, as it does in the said Treaty, then the question arises: who is the subject and carrier of national identity? Our Hungarian answer to this question is also consistent with the logic of legal science, common sense, lifelikeness and historical experience. The subjects of national identity are national communities that have lived in the territory of that State for a certain time, regardless of whether they live in a numerical majority or in a numerical minority. The state as an organisation, as a set of legal and political rules, represents and represents the identity of national communities in its geographical area. Our answer is that it has a national identity for people, citizens of the state, and this identity as a state of consciousness and a sense of values comes from their mother tongue, culture and homeland. The national state is intended to protect the identities of both national communities living in a majority or minority. On the basis of this statement, my fellow Members, the right to national identity can ensure that everyone can freely inherit the mother tongue, culture and homeliness of their predecessors and freely pass it on to their offspring. In Europe and in the Carpathian Basin, it is not by changing state borders that unsolved national issues can be addressed, but by changing state policies, by ensuring the right to national identity in theory and practice. According to the declaration, the right to national identity is an indispensable means of protecting general human dignity, which can strengthen peace, security and stability not only in the Carpathian Basin but also everywhere. This is why the Declaration calls not only on the parliaments and governments of neighbouring countries, but also on the institutions of the European Union, the Council of Europe and the United Nations, proposing to jointly make the right to national identity a part of universal human rights. This issue serves the future of the Hungarian nation, neighbouring nations and Europe at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear fellow citizens at home, at home and in the world! From the thousand years of Hungarian history in the Carpathian Basin, we have a hundred difficult years behind us, and we have a future that we can shape. To remain in fragmentation, drawing strength from the performance of knowledge, together with the efforts of successive generations, let us make the next century of Hungarians a success! We wish for peace, freedom and agreement in the world, in Europe and in the Carpathian Basin. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A round of applause from Jobbik, LMP and independents.]]
u2020-06-04-4	Thanks to the opening speech by Speaker László Kövér, the consolidated debate will be adjourned, continued and decided at our later meeting. I now ask the President of the Republic, János Áder, to come to the Chamber and give his speech from the platform. [[Dr. János Áder enters the Chamber and goes up to the speaker's stand.]] Mr President of the Republic. You have the floor, please.
u2020-06-04-5	I confess that I have seen this tribe of Turan with a keen grudge, and I am watching it today. Like their relatives, the Turks, they destroyed much and did nothing. Budapest is a false city, without any originality. For centuries the Hungarians have oppressed their nationalities, and the hour of liberation and retribution has arrived. By Harold Nicolson in 1919, an English diplomat who played a significant role in establishing the borders of Trianon. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Parliament, What did this diplomat know about Hungary? The founding of the state of St. Stephen, the wisdom of our first king in his warnings? St. Laszlo's valor, the courage of János Hunyadi, the world's victory in Nándorfehérvár? [[11.20]] What did Matthias know about his renaissance court, his library, and its codexes in Europe? The spiritual giants of reform, our freedom fight in 1848? Or the economic momentum, scientific achievements, of the half century before World War I? Nicolson knew little about all this. However, the future of the Hungarians was fundamentally influenced as a diplomat involved in the decision. Dear House, A hundred years ago on this day, on 4 June, Hungary mourned, Budapest dressed in black, the flags were released to half masts, the newspapers appeared in a mourning frame. Most of the shops, schools and offices were closed, buses and trams stopped. The bells were ringing in the capital and everywhere in Hungary. The Hungarians remained silent for five minutes. No Hungarian could deal with the loss, the humiliation, the law made. In 1920 Hungary lost two thirds of its territory, its population shrinked from 18 million to 7.5 million, more than 3 million Hungarians were out of the border. Romania alone had more land than Hungary had left. Most of our cereal-growing areas, 90 percent of our forests, and two thirds of our railway network have been transferred to neighbouring countries. We talk less about what economic growth Trianon has brought to his waist. From our primary school studies we know the role of István Széchenyi in the construction of the first cylinder mill in Budapest. On the other hand, it is less often said that 60 years later, at the turn of the century, Budapest is the largest mill industrial centre in Europe, and only Minneapolis in the United States is ahead of it. We do not talk about the dynamic development of the machine industry in Hungary either. There's something to be proud of. In 1873 the first Hungarian-made locomotive was produced, 27 years later the thousandth rolling out of the machine factory. In 30-40 years, agricultural machinery in Hungary will be able to produce all the tools and machines that agriculture needs. World-class electricity industry, dynamic urban and rail infrastructure development, public and private buildings with a real metropolitan image to Budapest. Let me add in parentheses: the underground construction of Budapest in Europe is only preceded by London; Parliament's building will be handed over in 1904. Dear House, In addition to the loss suffered by the country and the loss of economic momentum, we must also talk about the loss directly suffered by people. In Hungary, between 1918 and 1920, a number of violent waves swept through. There hasn't been a Trianon decision yet, there haven't been any new borders, but there was a postwar war in the Carpathian Basin. First, it is only the rallying of free teams, the crack-up of granaries, flaming castles, ethnic or social-based killings, and then the brutality of the occupying Czech, Romanian and Serbian troops. Hundreds of thousands of people who have been forced to flee, who have been deprived of their jobs, jobs, livelihoods, their land, their homes, their possessions. Fear, fear, humiliation, split settlements. When we talk about Trianon, today the fourth generation is asking the same questions. Could World War II have been avoided? Who's responsible for what? Why has the Trianon decision become immeasurably unfair for Hungary? Many of the historians who examined the era share the view that XX. At the beginning of the century, although the leaders of all countries talked about peace, everyone was actually preparing for war. The decline of the Ottoman Empire, the political vacuum in the Balkans, the expansion of the Tsarian Russia, the strengthening of the Pan-Slavic idea, Germany's growing strength, France's desire for revival due to the loss of Alsace, and the aspirations of national independence all pointed in this direction. Following the murder of Ferdinand, the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy calculated that its conflict with Serbia would remain local, with the exception of the Balkans. This was supported by the experience of the previous 50 years in Europe. Vienna believed that Germany's stand in favour of the Monarchy would keep Russia away. And St. Petersburg believed that the Russian mobilization would cause the Monarchy to retreat. Berlin believed that England would remain neutral and that it would hold France back. Everyone was wrong. At first, Hungary's Prime Minister, István Tisza, opposed the entry to the war. He believed that the simultaneous war against the Russians, the Serbs and the Romanians would not have enough force to defend Transylvania, and that a likely victory would upset the delicate ethnic balance of the Monarchy. After two weeks of stretching, Vienna convinced Tisza, who, at the final ministerial council meeting about the war, insisted that the Monarchy declare that it does not intend to take in Serbian territories. The Austro-Hungarian Monarchy declared war on Serbia, Hungary became a military party. In a short time, the war became a world war. After four years of war, Hungary could not, as a loser, avoid serious punishment. Why? After the German Lightning War strategy failed and the war consumed more and more resources, both the Antan and the central powers forced the war to take place in neutral countries. However, the neutrals, Italy and Romania had to purchase their entry into the war by recognising territorial needs that could only be enforced in the event of the opponent's total military collapse. Italy entered the war on the side of England and France in the hope of South Tyrol, Istria, and much of Dalmatia, the territories of the Ottoman Empire and the expansion of African colonies. As early as 1916, Romania promised Bukovina, Transylvania and much of Hungary's eastern part. Today it is more of a historical curiosity, but two years after its entry into the war, on May 7, 1918, Romania made peace with Germany and the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. There was also a price to pay for this: approving the retention of the previously acquired Bessarabian territories. After six months, however, when Germany had already capitulated in essence, Romania kicked off its special peace, it again went to war on the side of the Antente in the hope of obtaining the previously requested territories. By 1918, the fate of three monarchies was fulfilled by the German Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, and the Tsarisian Russia, which, in previous centuries, influenced Europe's power relations decisively. [[11.30]] France needed new allies after the loss of the former Allied Russia to counterbalance Germany's power. In addition, a buffer zone was essential to prevent the expansion of the Bolsheviks. The new alliance had a price. This price was paid by the winning powers with the losers, especially Hungary. Dear House, In his words, St. Stephen warns his son not to punish anyone above measure. The First World War was completed by five countries on the side of losers. Let's compare the penalty rates for Germany and Hungary. While Germany lost 13 percent of its territory, it lost 67 percent, or two thirds, of Hungary's territory. While nearly four, yes, well heard, Germany's population was under the jurisdiction of nearly four percent of other countries, this represented almost 60 percent of Hungary's population. And let's record a few more facts. Hungary was invited to the peace talks only a year late. He could not state his position or arguments in terms of terms of peace. The Council of Foreign Ministers has devoted only one meeting to the issue of Hungarian borders. It approved the reports of the two preparatory committees without debate. That's why the figures like Nicolson quoted at the beginning of the speech played a significant role. The principles of the self-determination of peoples were applied only at the expense of Hungary. When the Hungarian delegation arrived in Paris, U.S. President Wilson turned his back not only on the principles but also on the negotiations; the Americans were represented by their Paris ambassador at the hearings. Albert Apponyi, head of the Hungarian delegation, was given the opportunity to give only one speech. Discussions, arguments and public presentation of documents could not take place. The fate of Hungary was not decided in 1920. A long time ago. Sneaky backseat negotiations. Unprepared politicians, political adventurers, self-proclaimed prophets, paid agents, biased, partially corrupted experts, journalists infected with Hungarian hatred, all the work we call today the Trianon dictatorship. A hundred years later, we have the right to ask: has he brought peace on Trian? No. Two decades later, the killing continued. Did it help the economic development of the region, Central Europe and Eastern Europe? No. Did you reduce ethnic tension in the area? No. The decision created several multiethnic countries from a multiethnic country, which was used to sow the seeds of another conflict. Moreover, neither German national socialism nor Russian Bolshevism were able to prevent its subsequent expansion. Churchill wrote in his recollections of the war: There is not a single nation or province of the Habsburgs, whose independence would not have brought pain that ancient poets and theologians had reserved for the damned. Dear House, The last question we need to ask is was the Trianon decision fair? The fact that we Hungarians feel unfair is understandable. But what do others think? Harold Nicolson, whose words I quoted at the beginning of my speech, and who could not be accused of Hungarian friendship, wrote years later: The Romanian Committee of Needs was thinking only in Transylvania. The Czech demand committee focused on the southern border of Slovakia. These two completely separated committees forced territorial and population losses on Hungary which were very serious in total. If the work had been concentrated in the hands of a Hungarian committee, the subject of the debate would not only have been a wider border area, but would have seen that the totality of territorial cession places much more Hungarians under foreign rule than is compatible with the principle of self-determination. But we could also quote the then Prime Minister of England, Lloyd George: there will never be peace in Southeast Europe if there is a large number of Hungarian minorities within the borders of every small state that is now being created. I therefore propose that, as far as humanly possible, the different species of people should be attached to their mother countries, and this criterion should have priority over military, economic or transport considerations. Finally, we quote François Mitterrand, President of the Socialist Republic of France, who said in 1992: All peace treaties of this century and, in particular, peace agreements arising from the war of 1914-18, starting in Versailles-in, but also peace agreements in 1945 and thereafter are unfair peace treaties, which have always denied historical, geographical, intellectual or ethnic realities in order to satisfy the triumphant glory or desire for power or direct interests. The drama of the next war has always been included in the provisions of the previous peace treaties. Dear Memoirs, About everything that happened before and after Trianon, I could quote Ady, Attila József, Kosztolányi, Gyula Juhász, Babits, Karinthy, Krúdy, Móriczo, Hopei, Károly Kós, Antal Serb, Marai. A special memorial should be given to their pain of injustice. Now, not from them, but after the Trianon decision, and in 1948, I quote some verses from Ruttkai Arnold, a poet who fled to Australia. / Wasn't enough of the Seven Sealed Peace Act, / of the free received ancient land...? / Wasn't there enough at the end of the fast-pressed border / gardens behind the raspberry bush? / There were few, perhaps, / the fallen street sign, / spent map, / fallen statue...? / The mother tongue had long moved underground, / whispered behind the bars. / Closed the old school, / died of the song, / fell out of the bell leg. / The memories were trembling, too. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, On the hundredth anniversary, it's reasonable to sweep our own house. In the period between the end of the World War and the Trianon decision, Hungary's tragic situation has been exacerbated by the catastrophic activity of its political leaders. During this narrow two-year period, conservative inertia, liberal talentlessness and Bolshevik utopia have given each other a rendezvous. Chasing hooves, chasing vain fantasies, unsubstantiated confidence in cultural superiority and historical merits has made it impossible to take advantage of the already very narrow margin of movement. In the turn of 1918-19, where were the secret service reports on the background discussions and background agreements of the Antent and its subsequent infant countries? Where was the elemental self-defense instinct to reorganize the army, protect the borders? Where was the diplomatic background work, the use of personal relations, the introduction of our arguments at least to the acceptance of ethnic boundaries? To think that it would be enough to be principled against the merchants, the pursuits of prey, not to see what political, economic business had been done in the background, was more than political blindness was serious irresponsible. Michael Károlyi could have done one thing: keep the army together and build strong armpower. This could have been a protection against Czechs and Romanians who invaded the country and an opportunity to isolate communists. If Apponyi's presentation at the time when everything had been decided, was able to arouse the interest of the British Prime Minister and replace the sympathy of the Italian Prime Minister, couldn't the persistent, persistent political and diplomatic background have reduced some of the losses at the same time? Dear House, Loser war, chaos caused by two revolutions, severe social, economic consequences of Trianon, state on the verge of bankruptcy. But the nation wanted to live. It had to begin to rebuild the country. The work was waiting for István Bethlen's government. Bethlen, who was a member of the Paris peace delegation, was written by English historian Bryan Cartledge, who said that during the post-war period, there was a marked lack of talent. István Bethlen was the only able man who was able to represent Hungary effectively on the stage of European politics. At the peace conference in Paris, when he was on foot near international politics, he learned his lesson well, and he was able to apply what he learned effectively. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In 1921 István Bethlen, who became head of the government of Hungary, passed a law in the Parliament during the first year of his prime ministership, which declared the looting of the Habsburgs, reached the referendum in Sopron, reducing the population to be transferred to Austria by 55,000 people. He first created the conditions for political stability and then economic recovery, which he did not tolerate. It has reduced Hungary's international isolation, and with the support of the League of Nations, it has managed to obtain the necessary loan to restart the economy. It introduced duties to protect the Hungarian market. The result exceeded all expectations. From 1925 onwards, the government has achieved a budget surplus each year and has been able to significantly increase its spending on education and public health. This provided the financial basis for Klebelsberg's extensive education and culture policy. By 1929, industrial production exceeded the 1913 by 12%. It was not the Hungarian people, not the Hungarian people, that the global economic crisis stopped this momentum. Dear House, It's been a hundred years, full of pain, new losses, a lot of experience. Hungary has been repeatedly accused of changing borders since World War II, ignoring that when history offered this opportunity, Hungary has never lived with territorial demands against its neighbours, neither the fall of the Ceaușescu regime, nor the fall of Yugoslavia, nor the birth of Ukraine from the Soviet Union, nor the separation of Czechoslovakia. We give respect to our neighbours, but we ask them to respect us and the Hungarians who live in their country. We give respect to the nationalities in Hungary, and we want them to turn to us with respect. We have to work for each other, not against each other. What the great powers have failed, we must correct. If we do, the Trianon curse will be removed. But let's be clear, let's be clear. We will not be partners in silence, forgery of history, refusal of Hungarians living outside the mother country. However, we will be partners in honest speech, taking advantage of historical opportunities, strengthening the bond between Hungarians and Hungarians, Hungarians and other nationalities. No one can deny us the right to work if the geographical boundaries of the nation have changed so that the nation's spiritual boundaries remain unchanged. Dear House, This day, June 4th, has been called the Day of National Inclusion for ten years. Our aim in the last ten years has been to finally build where so many decades have only been able to destroy, to fill the noble concept of national policy with content, and to create a stronger bond between Hungarian and Hungarian with simplified localisation, to support small Hungarian communities beyond our borders, as well as large institutional networks, to improve the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses across the border with training and support, and to renew the scenes of church community life. For ten years, we have been working to provide a perspective with social benefits, scholarships and strengthening Hungarian schools where, in order to keep young Hungarians, it is primarily education and work that we need to repair, save our common values, restore the tortured monuments to provide a common resource for common goals. Those who continue to do so will not only look at what was once, but also see what we have now: the Hungarian students of János Selye High School in Komárom, the residents and educators of the houses of the St. Francis Foundation in Déva, the young people singing in Hungarian at the St. Michael Ráti Children's Home, the Beregszás II. Ferenc Rákóczi College's teachers, the preschoolers of Nagykapos, the young talents of the Novi Sad Academy of Arts, the young people gathered around the three altars of Rákóczi. In ten years, the Hungarian Parliament has multiplied the funds devoted to the completion of national cohesion. Ten years' work, thank God, has grown today. [[11.50]] In his book István Széchenyi Ilítván írított, he wrote, "Most people think it was Hungary; I like to believe that it will be! In the parliamentary debate on the acceptance of Trianon conditions, Albert Apponyi inspired the members of the Parliament here, referring to Széchenyi, by saying that Hungary was not, but will be! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, After a hundred years, after two world wars, tormented by Trianon and economic crises, after more than four decades of communist-socialist Vargabe, after a depressed revolution, we are here, living several times on the brink of state bankruptcy. In the future we can confidently say: the Hungarian nation was not only but will be! [[It's a long applause. Dr. János Áder returns to the box of honor and takes a seat.]]
u2020-06-04-6	Dear Parliament, I thank President János Áder for his festive speech. Dear House, Fellow Members! In confidence in the understanding and implementation of the message of the political declaration, as expressed by President János Áder and Speaker László Kövér, we ask God, the Lord of history, to enable the lessons of the national tragedies of our past and the joy of our re-found national union to become a real resource in our progress towards the future. Dear Parliament, Please stand up and sing our national anthem together as the closing of our festive program, and stand and salute the departure of the national flag and historical flags. [[The people in the room stand up and sing the Anthem together; then the members of the Jobbik faction begin to sing the Székely anthem, to which most Members join. After singing the Székely anthem, the commander of the decorative guard will step forward, and the flags will be used to signal the sound of the fanfares to leave the meeting room.]] Thank you very much. Please take your seats. [[The people present will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of our holiday session today. We now have a 10-minute technical break, followed by general debates. Thank you for your presence.
u2020-06-04-7	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats so we can continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our work with general debates. A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to ensure the increased welfare of animals will follow up until closure. The presentation submitted by our colleague Gyula Fideszes Budai, László Böröcz fideszes, István Simicskó KDNP, Zsolt Nyitrai Fideszes and Péter Ovádi Fideszes T/10737. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. [[For signal:]] On a case-by-case basis, Congressman Gyula Budai asked for the floor. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-04-8	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am calling for a general adjournment on behalf of the authors of the general debate on the bill amending the laws necessary for the increased welfare of animals. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-9	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, honourable Members, the rapporteur has proposed that the item be adjourned. The house rules are 22. In accordance with Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on this without debate, by raising its hands. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to adjourn the debate on the item on the agenda on the basis of its rapporteur's proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adjourned the debate on the agenda. [[Some Members leave the Chamber. It's a short break.]] With all due respect, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, take his place. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] Dear House, We now have a general debate on the bill amending the laws concerning certain asset management and national financial services until closure. The government referral is T/10743. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. I'll wait for Mr. Secretary to put the microphone on. [[It's happening.]]
u2020-06-04-10	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you concerns the regulatory area of a range of fields of competence falling under the responsibility of the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing national assets, reflecting the changes in economic, asset management and the management system and their responses. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the amendment of the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment and the Law on Real Estate Records is to create an incentive environment for investment in brownfield areas and former railway areas; and, in the case of defence areas, to promote the pursuit of defence and national security interests by allowing a special procedure for establishing zoning status if the zoning classification has not yet been established. Dear House, According to the provision of the submitted proposal to amend the State Property Act, Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. contribute to the performance of the Minister's activities in respect of ownership transactions relating to State property under the ownership rights of the Minister responsible for the supervision of State assets. [[12.10]] The purpose of the amendment of the law is also to clarify the text of the provision in order to exempt organisations which provide the public service mission and the infrastructure necessary to provide the public with public services from the obligation to recover property management. The reason for the exemption is that the organisations concerned provide the infrastructure necessary to satisfy basically statutory public tasks, typically road operation and government communications needs for other state-owned organisations. In the case of real estate necessary for the operation of railway infrastructure, the necessary amendment to settle the legal fate of the property has already been made in the National Land Fund Act. As a result of this amendment, the real property that functions as a national road, regardless of its designation, is the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. they are subject to the exercise of ownership rights, facilitating the provision of them and ensuring uniform ownership rights over road transport infrastructure. Based on the road register maintained by national road managers, it is clear which properties belong to the road infrastructure, these landowners are not part of the National Land Fund as well as the real estate belonging to the railway infrastructure, which is made clear by this bill. Dear House, The amendments targeted by the bill before you also concern legislation on the integration of savings cooperatives. The Act establishing the integration of cooperative credit institutions in 2013 created a stable institutional and regulatory environment in which the development of the savings cooperative sector became ensured. Experience since the introduction of the regulation has demonstrated the aim and direction of the 2013 legislation, and the regulatory and business control of the established central bodies can improve the efficiency and safe functioning of this important market segment. In 2019 there was a merger of individual savings cooperatives in a single entity, thus a cost-effective concentration of business processes, which also justifies simplification of the supervisory and management system. The main objective of the bill is to ensure, by amending the law on the integration of cooperative credit institutions, that the institutional structure with fewer players is reflected in the legislation as a result of the merger processes in integration. The bill updates the role of the integration organisation and the integration business management organisation, and also clarifies the obligations to be met by the members of integration in order to ensure operational efficiency. As a result of the merger processes, integration is typically composed of non-cooperative members, so the bill amends the names of the various actors involved in integration. Instead of the concept of a cooperative credit institution, it introduces the concept of an integrated credit institution, and the name of the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions is changed to an integration organisation. The name of integration is also changed; the bill uses the concept of integration of the credit institutions of the cooperative rather than the integration of the credit institutions of the cooperative. The important innovation of the bill is the integration into the integration organisation of the joint fund of cooperative credit institutions operating within integration. This will ensure that the universality of members is implemented in a simpler structure, but with unchanged security. The process by which the integration organisation acts as successor to all the institutional protection funds previously operating in the cooperative sector will be completed by the termination of the fund and by the integration organisation, taking over the assets accumulated so far from its tasks and members' contributions. In the light of the amendment of the cooperative credit institution law, it is also appropriate to clarify certain provisions of the Act on the Registration of Companies, the Court of Justice and the winding-up of the Company and the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Law on the Renewal and Development of the City Park is primarily aimed at Városliget Real Estate Development Ltd. Városliget Property Development Ltd. is not regulated in the absence of a property management contract, and Városliget Property Development Ltd. should be insured in matters which are not settled by law. its own procedural powers. The proposal sets out the special tasks of the statutory trustee in connection with the investment and construction activities, which can be carried out without the specific consent of the shareholder, thereby otherwise achieving significant time savings. For the sake of transparency, further amendments regulate separately the provisions concerning Városliget Zrt. and Opera Vagyonkezelő Kft. According to the bill, the trustee is obliged to use the amount of the fee collected during the exploitation of each asset to maintain the assets in the management of the assets. The administrator shall be entitled to comply with its registration obligations in relation to the growth of the national assets to both the owner's municipality and the public shareholder's legal entity without separate accounts, through the provision of information to existing property registers. This provision also simplifies the settlement of accounting records for investment in the name of and for the benefit of the State. Dear Parliament, In 2011, the government launched a programme to help foreign exchange lenders in difficulty. Nemzeti Utilizságkezelő Zrt., established under and in the framework of the Nemzeti Utilizságkezelőszolgáltató program. Thanks to its operation, the most socially dependent lenders who entered this programme have escaped their millions of loans by continuing to stay in their homes. With these measures, we were able to protect some 38 thousand homes and some 155 thousand people. Thanks to effective economic protection measures in recent years, the situation of the majority of tenants has stabilised, so in 2019 the government allowed stakeholders to re-ownerize their former homes. With the extremely favourable buy-back options, 9 out of 10 previously in difficulty foreign exchange-credited people wanted to live, resulting in a satisfactory and permanent settlement of nearly 28,000 families. [[12.20]] Due to the purchased properties, the National Asset Management Ltd. Its real estate portfolio has been significantly reduced and its task has changed, and it has become timely to review the operation of the company, taking into account the aspects of efficient public asset management. Accordingly, the purpose of the proposed legislation is to repeal, on the one hand, the rules allowing access to the programme and, on the other hand, to take over the tasks associated with the management of state-owned property by an operating organisation. Empty state-owned properties can be sold on the market through open auctions; in the case of real estate for which the sale attempt is unsuccessful, the local government of the location of the property is free of charge by virtue of the law. The functions of trustees and landlords of tenants' properties shall be performed by an operating organisation in accordance with the bill, which shall be authorised by the Government to designate. To sum up, the National Device Manager programme has successfully achieved the objectives set over the past nine years. In line with this, the legislative proposal establishes a regulatory basis for the effective management of state-owned properties. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, From the outset, the Act on the Implementation of State Building Investment has given the Investment Agency an important role in respect of works of high importance financed from the central budget. By clarifying the definition of the concepts set out in the Act, the proposed amendment makes it even more clear that the various priority investments can only be made with the participation of the Investment Agency. The Law clarifies that, in addition to the investments in which the State is provided under the real estate agreement necessary for the construction of the investments, the Investment Agency is also implementing the construction investments financed from the central budget which are carried out on real estate owned by the State at least by a majority-owned company. In the case of the implementation of these investments by the Investment Agency, movable and real estate assets resulting from the investment shall, in principle, be transferred by law to the owner of the property concerned by the investment. In order to ensure uniform ownership rights, the proposal extends the legal provision on the exercise of ownership rights of the Investment Agency in addition to real estate to movable property. The proposal simplifies the procedures for the exercise of ownership rights of the Investment Property Agency and for contracting by the Investment Agency in order to make investments as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, To sum up: with the adoption of the legislative amendment proposal, the efficiency of public service provision is increasing, and owners' rights practitioners can be assured of effective and efficient asset management by drawing up clear rules that can be applied in the application of everyday law. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament and my honourable Members, in addition to considering what they have said, that T/10743. To discuss the proposed legislation and to support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. I thank you, Mr President, for your patience and opportunity. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-11	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Böröcz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10743 amending the Act concerning certain asset management and national financial services a legislative proposal, as you have heard in the expozee, contains provisions on amendments to several important legislation. I would like to highlight a few important points from the bill in my speech by the lead speaker, and I would like to describe the main objectives of the proposal. Dear House, The aim of the bill is to adopt, on the basis of the experience of law enforcement, the amendments to the laws necessary to ensure uniform interpretation of the law and, in recent years, to introduce changes in the national assets and the management of assets through the legislation contained in the proposal. The 2013 CCXVII on the renewal and development of the City Park in the bill before you. The primary purpose of the amendment of the law is to ensure that Városliget Real Estate Development Ltd. Városliget Property Development Zrt. should be guaranteed with respect to its trust rights without the conclusion of its asset management contract. its own procedural powers. The proposal sets out the specific tasks of the City Park Trustor in connection with investment and construction activities by providing the trustee with the demolition activities and other related tasks, such as the necessary measures to ensure the proper management and destruction of waste, without the specific consent of the shareholder. The proposal sets out the recovery activities of the trustee and the use of the proceeds from the exploitation by requiring the trustee to use the amount of the fee collected during the exploitation of each asset to maintain the assets in the management of the assets. As a result of the amendment, and as a result, the trustee is entitled to comply with his registration obligations in relation to the increase of the national assets to both the owner's municipality and the State's exercise of ownership rights without separate accounts, by providing information in existing property registers, thereby simplifying the settlement of the accounting records of the investment in the name of the State and for the benefit of the final owners. Dear Parliament, The bill includes, among other things, the 1997 CXVI on real estate registers. The amendment of Law 3 on the regulation by the Government of the classification of zones in brownfield areas, previously for defence purposes and in former railway areas and their immediate environment. The local government is obliged to delimit the brownfield areas in the municipal planning instrument, and to define the development and recycling possibilities of the brownfield areas during the review of the urban development concept and the integrated urban development strategy. However, the remediation and rehabilitation of the brownfield areas is not only a task for municipalities, but also an important interest of the State in the public areas, after cleaning up these areas, to use these areas on a business basis, increasing the revenue side of the budget. It is in the public interest to recyclable brownfield areas after the discharge of environmental damage caused and spatial planning, thus creating an environment to encourage investment in the country. The general rules for the classification of the construction zone are not affected by the amendment and can therefore, by decree of the municipality, continue to establish any construction zone classification. If the municipality determines the development and recycling purpose of the brownfield area, the construction zone classification may be determined by the Government Office only in accordance with this. Dear House, The bill is the 2007 CVI on state assets. It clarifies the addition of a new provision to the Act, MNV Zrt. the arrangements for the representation of MNV Zrt. In view of its responsibilities. [[12.30]] As a result of the additional provision, unlike the general rule, MNV Zrt. is represented by the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets vis-à-vis third parties in respect of the legal transactions related to MNV Zrt. the Minister's ownership legislation shall contribute to the performance of the ministerial activity in respect of government property-related transactions. In addition to the above, the Vtv. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the text of the provision in order to exempt organisations which provide public service tasks and infrastructure for the provision of public services from the obligation to recover property management. The reason for the exemption is that the organisations concerned are typically providing infrastructure to other state-owned entities to meet basic statutory public tasks, such as road operation and communications needs for government purposes. The bill will also extend the 2008 XL on gas supply. The existing provisions of Act No. 20, according to which, until 30 September 2021, cover activities enabling contracts constituting the current universal service supply model of natural gas, such as a more favourable market price environment, to achieve a price level of gas supply to ensure the maintenance of the result of the reduction in the costs of electricity are only possible until that date. The proposal ensures that the current model is maintained in order to avoid any increase in gas prices for retail and small customers receiving universal service. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, the bill before us contains a number of forward-looking provisions, and I therefore urge my fellow Members, with respect, to support the proposed bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-04-13	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-14	Mr President, Dear House, With restraint to the national day of mourning, I try to approach the package of proposals that lie before us, highlighting the unfortunate way in which we are dealing with a salad law in which we can read a number of very, very different proposals. Among these, they are clearly eligible, there are clearly to be rejected. So it would be very difficult to establish a national unity in the context of this salad law, since it is impossible for the author of it, who has organized these compatible or incompatible topics into this pile. I would therefore like to highlight two of them in the lead speakerial round, ahead of the general debate. One is the issue of the National Asset Manager, which has also been the subject of a debate with the State Secretary for many years. I believe that this debate could, in principle, be held in a professional capacity, at least with us, Mr Secretary of State, so I have no reason to believe that there is any bad intentions behind what you have said. However, what I see is that government action and its range are not sufficiently effective in this area, and I would like to say briefly why. The National Asset Manager alone should not be called the currency-credited solution package, because that did not happen among the solutions experiments, perhaps it was one of the better intentions and perhaps more effective ones. I don't want this to go away. In itself, the construction of me is incredibly irritating to me that former homeowners should hire their own property back as tenants. I've always had a kind of distance in me because of the origin and conception of the construction. At the same time, I have to admit, and I know that this is rare for opposition representatives, but I am interested in the Hungarian nation, not the opposition, that the easier opportunities to recover property have made this recovery available to many. I would also like to stress that for many it was not possible. So, in the spirit of fairness, we have to note that there are those who have been given the opportunity to do so, some who, on the other hand, have closed all the existing doors. The government is not relieved by the good intentions of any part of the package of solutions from the liability arising from the failed foreign exchange credit settlement, as, Mr State Secretary, we may be able to agree if you put these so-called loans at the rate of admission, so that the market rate is not allowed to be broken down into people's necks, if you do not link an EBRD pact with the banking system, where you do not put additional burdens on commercial banks in order to settle the situation of the victims, and if you do not stroke the banking system to this day, as you do, then the situation that needs to be dealt with in this package may not come up. Why am I talking about caressing the banking system? It is incredibly irritating that they put it on billboards to account banks, and they allowed the banking sector special tax to pass on almost all of it to customers, allowing the financial transaction fee to pass on to customers. And now, when Hungary launches special taxes in the name of public burdens, the banking system is the only sacred cow, the caressed veterinary horse, which is allowed to write its supposedly paid special tax in its entirety in five years, and they are even given a kiss by the fact that the Hungarian National Bank, although not just for direct government intervention, opens up a wide, very large framework, which has a small handshake, and a few more ten billion-dollar donations can be booked by the banking system, which should now pay into the budget, not only on paper, and get these amounts back. This is the classic handback, which, by the way, as a Btk. case, you can get to know more closely by any law student. But it looks like if the banking system is doing it and in relation to the government, it could become a legalized activity. So I find this attitude quite amazing, the betrayal of foreign exchange credentials in this way, the bank victims. Then, of course, there are proposals for better or worse solutions for the appearance of symptoms that are not necessary. But we shouldn't have let this problem get out of hand. The other topic is at least as important, although I feel that there is no relational signal between these, this is the topic of preferential flat tax in the rust zone. I'm in a strange situation here. On the one hand, I'm glad. I am pleased that when I told you in 2011 my first idea of a home-building and rental scheme, although it was not implemented by the government, plagiarized it, did not take over, did not put hundreds of billions behind it, but now it has finally recognised the importance of the problem. He realized that in Hungary, a typical tenant in a living situation, a young person starting his life, would simply be looted by unregulated market conditions that would have been possible to regulate in recent years. I can see that, although we are far from getting to what is in Jobbik's program, the government has recognised the possibility. This is our problem, that it also seems to recognise the resulting market, as it is trying to create a mass of benefits that the private sector's private entrepreneurs will be able to carry through the development of real estate much more preferentially if the assumption is wrong. By the way, there is an associated bill, which once again opened domestic and foreign gates to the oligarchs extending the real estate portfolio in connection with the expansion of Eximbank and its new possibilities. I can see that although the preferential apartment tax has been sent out of the system in a senseless way, for some people the discounts remain. If I want to be in good faith, I will visit that capitalized Hungarian medium-sized enterprises are now appearing out of nowhere in the middle of the crisis, starting to build rentals and giving them to young people at a cheaper price. It's science fiction, please. In the middle of a crisis period, reality suggests that the Oligarchs with reserves and capital power, multi-enterprises, their daughters, and this well-defined network of companies, are starting to invest again. It cannot be read out of the package of proposals, either from this or from the proposal for a separate agenda on this issue, that there is any guarantee that Hungarian young people, the broad masses of those who start their lives, will have better rental opportunities than the current market opportunities, or that the properties built here will even be used as a compulsory rental. Let's not be unfair. If there is only one positive aspect of this, that it expands the supply side of the real estate market, and that amazing supply shortage that has existed for 10 to 20 years can minimize it, I may be pleased. But I would be even more pleased that if it were not more than HUF 100-150 billion per year, the Government of Hungary would announce the future of our country, and on a national day of mourning it would be worth talking about the fact that with a public-based tens of thousands of new-built apartments could be started with this amount of money per year. These current market prices could be rented half-third, Mr. Secretary of State, and a six to eight years of successful coexistence... Because, let's be honest, there may be problems with living together in such a system, but if all the parties to the contract, with the minimum standards of social co-existence, are in compliance with it, then after 6-8 years it would be expected that these properties could be purchased at cost. [[12.40]] Why is that necessary, Mr. Secretary? If we look at the number of new-built apartments and not the licenses issued, because there is a small difference between them, we can see that based on the current construction figures, which were implemented during the preferential housing tax period, the Hungarian housing stock could be replaced every 200 years, enough for this. The 100-year swap would require about 40,000 new-built properties per year, so no license was issued. The number of newly built properties will decrease by about 20-25 percent, according to professional estimates, following the introduction of the reduced housing tax. This is a dramatic reduction in a difficult situation, and I see that all of this should be arranged in a way that is not the stage of the interests of current governing parties. So when the Fidesz-KDNP hands the torch over to someone else, don't try to destroy the good elements of an uneven system immediately. Therefore, it could also be achieved here that, in addition to a government-based rental program, Hungary will have faith, and this should be maintained in a decade-long perspective, giving Hungarian young people a guarantee and thus guaranteeing the construction of the Hungarian future in the most important place, which is possible for us in our own country. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-04-15	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We also see this great reorganization, but we also see that everything has a story. Each step has a story, a previous step, or a previous misstep that they're trying to make forget, or a little bit with this current proposal to cover it up, touch on previous events. But let's go in line. Here's the question of brownfield investments. Mr Secretary, this is actually a question and, of course, an opinion, and I would be happy to have a reaction to that. I am not saying that they are making it impossible, that they may discourage, and that they do not make local governments interested in themselves, who have, by the way, struggled a great deal with the abandoned areas, the brownfield areas that need to be developed. In my living environment, Baranya County, where there are obviously areas built on a basically heavy industry, these are usually city center areas, and cities were interested in developing them. Now, either they can rip it out of the area of cities from the point of view of the special economic zones, or with this current proposal, they do not make local governments interested, or at the very least they only make them interested in making urban improvements here that have already been planned much earlier, may have already been planned, may have already been applied for, may have already managed to use or spend their own resources. So I think that it is more worthwhile for local governments to do so, even if I am fundamentally against centralisation measures, and I consider that to be so, centralisation measures, where they reduce the leeway of local authorities, their ability to decide... but even if they do so by such a proposal, I would ask Mr State Secretary, if you want to do so at all costs, to involve the municipalities in this, to involve the local government associations, to involve local representatives. This effort appears, by the way, at the following point: City Park, Opera, two opposition-led districts. It is quite simply that you want to carry out very serious contracts with a very serious economic interest, and, accordingly, the results of the elections should only be placed in brackets, although I have heard the Prime Minister say that he wants to cooperate with the leadership of the capital, and he wants to cooperate with the opposition-led metropolitan districts. Unfortunately, every such step, Mr. Secretary of State, but we could say here the decisions on business tax, we could say a lot of decisions here, each decision shows that you really do not want to cooperate, in fact there are administrative decisions here that are not justified by the economic necessity, which does not have a legal environment, because now is the time to create, which puts the results of the municipal elections, the municipal elections on 13 October. You don't want to cooperate, you want to beat him with strength. Once again, I would say that you should try to convince these mayors, perhaps help them convince voters that we can make the right decisions together, if we fail, and we must acknowledge that, Mr Secretary of State. That is what I think, rather than making administrative decisions to create a situation where, if they cannot decide otherwise, they will take these opportunities from their hands. On the question of the asset manager, joining what Dániel Z. Kárpád said, I too often thought that this was a strange solution, perhaps one of the more acceptable solutions that it is difficult to find better if they want to help people who are trapped in a currency trap. Another question is that you have been involved with the exchange rate risk that may not have been disclosed to all foreign exchange lenders in one day under the laws of foreign exchange credit, and that the banking system would have pulled it away for at least 15-25 years, since you would have had to bear this exchange rate risk in 15-25 years by the person who took on a foreign currency loan. At that time, you have HUF 309 HUF at the daily exchange rate and HUF 265 HUF on the Swiss franc. In parentheses, it is only necessary to say that these foreign currency lenders received forint loans that they could not have received before, and they did not even ask for them, but the loans were HUF 309 forints and HUF 265 forints. So, unfortunately, the trap has deepened, Mr. Secretary, many have been forced to be tenants in their own property. That was a level of solution. My fellow Member has also called on the EBRD pact, which, unfortunately, has led to this currency-credited trap, where you have undertaken in this pact that the banks cannot afford a penny forinting, nor has it been, where the Hungarian Government has undertaken not to make any obstacles to evictions, has not rolled or even given the Bank Association veto rights to certain social measures, such as the private failure institution. In the pact that has produced this situation, that it will be effective for you for HUF, you have given the foreign exchange lenders to the banking system for euro, this pact also mentions the National Asset Manager. There is talk of this strange formation, which we have always been a little ambivalent about, that we can't say anything better, but it's not really the right solution, even though this EBRD pact provides that the National Asset Management programme needs to be broadened. Compared to this, you plowed it last November, shut down this company, started liquidating it, and the people who gave their assets to the asset manager earlier, their apartments, they could buy it again, they could buy this apartment again. It seems that the liquidation is about to end, when the property has to be provided, in which it is that whoever could buy it again, we are all happy, and then the cherrying begins, and the remaining ones have to be sold at market prices. I'm asking you, with or without a tenant? Are they gonna dump the people who live in it now? [[12.50]] Have you got the buyer yet, Mr. Secretary? How are these properties sold, where Hungarian families now live? What happens to the Hungarian families afterwards? And then what they can't sell, they're gonna throw it at the local authorities and make them worry about these properties. I think that in this real estate issue, in Hungary today, a more thought-out decision on an issue involving an almost one million people would probably be good. In any case, this EBRD pact will be followed literally and slavishly by the government. The banks couldn't afford a penny, you really didn't roll any obstacles to eviction of Hungarian families, and even gave the Banking Association a right to veto when introducing the private bankruptcy institution. You have followed these provisions literally and slavishly, and what is in the interests of the people is that the Tool Management Programme should have been broadened in this agreement, signed by Viktor Orbán, for some reason it is not being observed. Before that, we're a little bit, very confused. The last one is cooperative credit institutions. This was a darker era of the Hungarian banking world, the Posta, the Prime Minister's Office, which neither the opposition nor the governing party can remember with a very good feeling. You know, this was the time when Zoltán Spéder told Viktor Orbán that a panda of the OTP must be built from the savings cooperatives. He also received resources, which he did not use to strengthen the savings cooperatives, but to obtain the Posta, where he could appoint half of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors for 50 million HUF. The best that the Hungarian government could achieve in the case of the largest government employer, Magyar Posta, was a stalemate. You were led by Zoltán Spéder, who might still be here if John Lazarus were not disgraced with him. What was then done at the Development Bank, the Savings Bank and the SZHISZ, the Integration Organization of Cooperative Credit Institutions, should be investigated. I remember that I filed a complaint at the time, Mr. Secretary of State. After a lot of thinking, I was able to reject this complaint by not investigating this case properly. And I thought the police were investigating. The integration of the cooperative has come to an end, and we can even see that another integration will take place, since the Savings Bank and the MKB have created a separate bank. Here I would refer back to the EBRD pact, which was concluded to bring MKB Bank back to the market, and Erste Bank gained 15 percent of the Hungarian state. That's how they relate. MKB is known in Hungary as the smaller bank of Matolcsy, so MKB, and it is now intertwined with the Savings Bank, and so this financial circle is given an even greater opportunity in today's Hungarian banking sector. These things are only worth mentioning, and the reason why it is worth remembering is what is behind them, because this is what Parliament is about to make a law about. Now they want to seal these with this record, and after what Zoltán Spéder did with the Posta, the Savings Bank, and after the fact that the Némethné's State Secretary had to be sprinkled with salt at the Prime Minister's Office, they do not learn from this, they do not investigate, they are not looking for those responsible, but they quickly cover up with a next provision and create another bank, but they are no longer the owner of Zoltán Spéder, but Lőrinc Mészáros. That's the difference. That's what they're making a law about now. Now they will legislate what is covering the past, which in future will not make it easier for the municipalities, but will make it difficult for them to do their job, make negotiations with the government difficult, and will not be co-ordinated by the authorities with the government, but will create a subordinate role for them with an administrative decision. We will not be able to support this, and I ask you to reconsider the logic through which you would like to keep in touch with the local governments, by trying to sweep the former Lázár-Spéder empire under the rug and take away new opportunities from the municipalities. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2020-06-04-17	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to put this law, which includes a lot of things and takes a lot of steps in many different directions or closes down this more precise wording, into the framework that we had here in Parliament yesterday, because there are apparently interrelated draft laws trying to control the processes we have in hand from the side of the regulation. Why do I say that? Because it's hard to assume the Fidesz government would consider good governance to be a standard. Its elements can be monitored when we see it looking for a balance in the economy, the conditions it creates for growth, but the impact it has on people is clearly ignored. It ignores the fact that the processes that it has set up in this law in relation to the City Park, state assets or the past of the cooperative are in the interests of Hungarian citizens. I think that this law does not serve this purpose, so we cannot and do not intend to support it in this respect. I just want to point out one thing. As they dealt with the members of the savings cooperative, more than 100,000 people, and as they beat through their own system the decision to significantly eliminate the financial access possibilities of small settlements, which will not be helped by the fact that this will be done in a mobile manner, the possibility of direct cooperation in smaller settlements, the personal approach typical of small banks, which is needed in a confidence situation, for example, that the money for funerals can be entrusted to an elderly lady or an elderly gentleman. What is being done in the cooperative movement by the violent restructuring of the savings cooperatives, according to the latest version, is a good example of the fact that, after you have significantly reduced democracy in Hungary, you do not expect great opposition, because this hundred thousand people will not come to Parliament to claim back the assets they had as members of the cooperative. After you reduced democracy, this series of steps was launched. My fellow chef showed me how Zoltán Spéder's idea became a government program and how he became the playground of the new bourgeoisie and the new wealth of the Fidesz government. Today, we have to suffer the fact that, by unifying several banks, you are going on the path of privatisation, and you're making it private, which has 100,000 people to blame. But I could also say that this was done to society as a whole. [[13.00]] And they're not going to use the possibility, by the way, to legitimize what I think can't be done, shouldn't be done, by the power of the law, by regulation. This process involves, and I would say, a somewhat more positive approach to what they intend to do in order to eliminate rust zones, brown zones, than in the previous tone. This is where the use of the territories of the defence and the Hungarian Railways has now been introduced and the possibility of it, and, in fact, here they are opening a big gate, not a loophole, in order to allow the aforementioned oligarchs, who are operating in your oligarchy, to show up and push and use these assets to launch new real estate development. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I said that this could be a more positive approach, because if you had thought this whole process through, you would have done an impact assessment of exactly what this would mean, then, I think you would have come a little bit closer to making your proposal more transparent and evaluate, because everything you're now explaining in a few lines is that then the defence areas can all be used and the areas that you choose will be used, these areas for the construction industry as a means of ending or resolving the crisis, although they want to use it directly and indirectly here. Now, this is what we condemned in detail yesterday, that, while the intention that you are moving forward with the use of these areas, the areas that are not in use, should not be done by you, but by the local communities to which it belongs, and that is why we say that the municipalities should have given the opportunity; we should have, but we know that the existing economic policy intentions and the possibilities of regulation between us and in this sense vary considerably, and in fact you have rolled it away in the same direction as I mentioned earlier, which concerns the banking part. The bank job is now not Italian, but Hungarian, and in this way the thousands, thousands, tens of thousands, as I said, will lead to a new bank for themselves in the circle of friends, at the expense of hundreds of thousands of people and through the transfer of social wealth. I would have been pleased that if the Minister had come to the Committee on Budgets earlier, he could not attend the invitation; later I felt that he did not want to do so if the Secretary of State thought he would be able to disprove me, because in order to take such far-reaching steps, I think we should have taken account of what has happened here in recent years. And it might come from this that it might also be worth listening to Members who are not only to press a button to support such an idea, but also to how to steward the state's wealth, which, I think, is left to you in terms of implementation, but the accounting for this in this form, as I said, has not yet been done to us, the Committee on Budgets. In conclusion, I must say that we will certainly not be able to support the bill in this form, but I believe that you do not want to make amendments that would deal with the situation in this respect in some way. I would like to reiterate one more thing, which points out that you are ignoring the aspirations of the municipalities, and that is that, in relation to the areas that are opened in this way and, I would say, a new map of the country is being drawn up, which can start with the use of the properties of the defence areas and the state railways, easily and clearly, as there has already been an incident in Budapest, at XI. in the district, you can see exactly where, with such a special decision, you have launched a construction site with thousands of flats, where tens of thousands of people move in, to the overbuilding of that area, that district, you have made an extraordinary contribution to a decision from above, and you will have it carried out. It is now being prepared in many places, and this is unacceptable, because it is at the serious expense of the people there, and they would not agree, and I think that there is the XI. Not even in the district, because in the last few months, you have experienced that the overdevelopment that you have produced there, and to which you have contributed in the past, has been rejected by the people who live there, and have thus chosen other local government leaders. In comparison, however, they are now doing that, by ignoring all these local government leaders and intentions, the oligarchy is being built not only from a personal point of view, but also from a territorial perspective, since not only the Balaton will be occupied, but now the islands on a map will appear in a few months' time where you decide to do what you want in essence. Well, that's why what you're doing isn't acceptable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-04-19	Thank you very much, and I would also like to welcome you and announce that we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. There are now two-minute speeches. First, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, please.
u2020-06-04-20	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to make a comment or a rhetorical question. The comment is that it appears that the Fidesz bank is still being built, and apparently the Prime Minister does not give up his intention to have a bank of his own, which will probably also mean the provision of capital to his own oligarchs, and in this bill another step will be taken in this direction. The other is that I would ask the Secretary of State, but we will probably not get an answer: whether all the opposition authorities can expect that if there is any government investment there, the rights of the municipalities will always be withdrawn by law, because this is clearly what the VI is now. in the district, where there is an opposition mayor, and the same is true of Section XIV. District, where there's an opposition mayor. So this is going to be a line, that instead of sitting down and negotiating, they would agree with the local government leaders, in the spirit of the Prime Minister's speech here in Parliament, that he would respect the people's decision instead of, I see, taking a different path. They don't want to negotiate, they don't want to compromise, they don't want to settle, they just push what they want out of power. We're used to this, probably the audience, how do I put this? have experienced this on a number of occasions, but is it possible that this will turn it into a further gear in the next legislative period, so that if any opposition government has anything to do with such a government project, can they count on them to be excluded from having, where appropriate, opinions, treatment or regulatory contributions to the investment? And this is important because these investments often affect the lives of the people who live there. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience. [[13.10]]
u2020-06-04-21	Thank you very much. Congressman László Böröcz, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2020-06-04-22	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to respond briefly to a few things. I wouldn't go into the question of why foreign exchange lenders have come to the situation they are in, because we have talked about this a lot; in fact, the release of foreign currency loans was due to the MSZ-SZDSZ governments. [[To Laszlo Varju.]] Don't look at me like that, Congressman. Even the central bank warned the government several times that foreign exchange lending should be held back. You didn't do anything about it. I wouldn't waste any time with this. The question of the asset manager is that the asset manager, after the asset manager ceases to be the asset manager itself, said that he can put the property on the street, because he can sell the property to market participants that is simply not true! The person who currently lives in an asset management apartment, thus living in a state-owned apartment, after the asset manager has bought it and cannot buy it, but still wants to live there, can continue to pay the rent, and will obviously pay this rent to a state successor body. So from this point of view, everyone is safe, and no one of these people is threatened by losing their housing. The other one, really just as a comment. Last night, I think we were here until 3:15 or 2:30 arguing about brownfield investments. Here Hungary has a decade behind in particular, we have never handled these brownfield rust zones. There is now a very good proposal for this. Nor is it true that the municipalities have no say in this, as it does in yesterday's bill on rust zones, and it is also included in this salad law. The municipalities shall take into account the local and other municipal rules in the area concerned. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The law doesn't say they shouldn't. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-04-23	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, DK.
u2020-06-04-24	Thank you very much. Indeed, today is the end of the debate that we have had in this regard, and I think it is important, together with this, to confirm again and again that you are doing wrong to the country by taking away from the municipalities the rights and opportunities that they should otherwise have. From this point of view, I think that the State should not appear as an actor that takes away the opportunity with the power of the State, form legislation on it, but rather contribute to the possibility by creating the condition, building infrastructure and supporting it. I set an example in this regard, for example, under the heading XIII. in the district, the case of the Váci Road, where it is a good example of who did it, who did it right, and who built it, true, over a longer period of time. But since, in these circumstances, it seems that you may be in a state of temporal confusion or would like to speed up something from this point of view, it is also at the risk that this alone could cause something to be built on an island, and it is there as an example: yes, there was an island built in Ocsan, for billions of forints, and what was its outcome anyway? So from this point of view, I think it would be much better for everyone if, by the way, the state shared its available resources with the municipalities, and with its knowledge, its power would help local communities to make improvements. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-25	I ask Mr Böröcz: I can give the floor in two minutes, as a normal speaker, according to the house rules. [[László Böröcz: Good.]] So he will speak in a normal speaking order, and he will do so for two minutes, if that is the case. [[László Böröcz: Of course.]] Here you go.
u2020-06-04-26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's just a few things. I believe that it is assumed that Congressman Varju and I and the Government will then agree together that these zones should be put in order and that we trust that the recovery of these zones can accelerate in the next period. This is, after all, the purpose of the bill. And, of course, it is possible to argue how much the municipalities should be involved, what rights should be given to the municipalities in this respect, but the part of the rust-zone bill and this bill also obviously offers a way and opportunity to do so in consultation with the municipalities. And by the way, as I said, if the municipality has a regulation on it, the government agencies, as stated in the law, must be taken into account. Therefore, this is not true in such a way that all the instruments in this respect are completely out of control by the municipalities. The second is that, in fact, these rust zones are generally state-owned or privately owned, and there are only partially areas owned by the municipality. These investments must obviously be examined separately in each case. Obviously, the aim of all of us would be to make the areas that can be invested quickly and quickly prepared for the investment as soon as possible. Areas that are contaminated and require longer preparation and recultivation, as a result of a longer process, up to 5-6-7 years of construction. This will help the construction industry in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term, especially in this current crisis. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-27	Honourable Members, Of course, everyone should have the opportunity to speak. I'm asking you to stick to the subject. I have the same offer to Congressman Varju as I had before to give Mr Böröcz the floor for two minutes as a representative asking for a normal word.
u2020-06-04-28	Thank you very much. [[Lajos Korózs: Take it!]] Yes, because there hasn't been a single word yet, and indeed, after the long debates it's worth... or for my part, I can, at least for today, close it. And that's what's missing, the partnership. You make local governments, in part, vulnerable by these laws and more, during this period; you take funds away from them and you do not treat them as partners. And I miss that word or this attitude, because it was an important element of the change of regime 30 years ago in itself that municipalities, local communities, can manage their own opportunities. And they may not own the railway station, they may not own the railway area or the former defence area, but they may not own what they want and how they will be able to make use of it, and you will now prevent it from doing so, they will not deal with it, but instead you will start such improvements. I urge you, or those who contribute to this, so that the local authorities do not ignore it and take advantage of the opportunities that give you the opportunity to eliminate these areas, even within the framework of the European Union. And then, I think that those long-standing landscape wounds that have developed here in the past can be eliminated. Mr. President. Thank you for your patience and your word.
u2020-06-04-29	Thank you very much. I don't want to freeze the word in anyone, but I don't think I have to. It is my regulatory duty to ask if anyone else would like to speak, if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] House rules are often advantageous, not any other time. Congressman Böröcz is in the mood, please.
u2020-06-04-30	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I'll be very brief. I understand, Mr President, that, in some ways, you would consider something else to be better, that other measures would be more appropriate. This is, of course, the right of their hearts; it is always the parliamentary majority who can decide in what process of action, in what objectives and in what instruments it resolves. [[13.20]] In Europe, we find a number of projects for the integration of many of these recultivation, brownfield investment rust zones. One of the biggest and changing successful actions was in England, where the municipalities were completely excluded. So they didn't even have as much to do with this as the bill provides. So I see the partnership more as trying to be a partnership in this regard, and the municipalities will obviously find a voice with the government, investors, because it is in the interest of both the municipality and investors and the state to heal these areas as soon as possible, and these landscape wounds can be repaired and cured as soon as possible. Thank you.
u2020-06-04-31	Anybody else want a word? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Major, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-04-32	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to reflect on some of the points that, I believe, are necessary here in front of the House. First, I say to my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, that there should be no misunderstanding, and I am not proud of the salad laws, and I am sure that this will not be included in the gold annales of Hungarian legislation. This is a practice that each government exercises, and the opposition always condemns it, but at the same time the technical practice justifies that a government institution should bring to this House proposals that are made during that period, at the same time, in order for legislation to become aware of them at the right time and to be able to make a decision. I am also responding to the suggestion raised by the asset manager and here by my other fellow Members. Neither the framework nor the subject of this debate is suitable for exploring all the causes, origins, responsibilities and other causes of the foreign exchange-credit conflict that has developed in Hungary over the past ten or a few years, and I am sure that the profession and professional literature will deal with it. At the same time, the facts and these figures show that the measures that the civilian government has put in a truly impossible situation have been used to help some 700 thousand families, so the results of those, and I believe, and I have heard this from their comments, thanks to the fact that their usefulness, although classified as a partial result, has not been contested. We helped 700,000 families with the forinting, the fixing of the exchange barrier eased the daily and immediate problems of 186 thousand families, with the institution of end-up payments, which really did not enable everyone to live with, but 170,000 families could live with them and the establishment of the National Tool Manager... And, Mr. President, allow me to make a personal appeal: in the summer of 11 or 12, I don't know exactly, I was sitting with my colleague, State Secretary Mariann Water East, and we made the presentation on square paper, and we were thinking about including 2,500 apartments or 5,000 apartments in the presentation. That's where we started. Please, the state has bought 38,000 apartments, and at the end of this, we have sent the request out of 38,000 to 32 500 families, and the others have settled in the meantime. Of the 32 500, 31,900 families responded. So the majority responded, 98 percent of those involved. Moreover, in the light of the circumstances in which this was done, I did not consider it to be a devil; that someone who had lost their apartment in an unfortunate financial transaction, in which they could stay as tenants, so they had a roof over their heads, and that it would be returned to their property, and that they would continue to live as owners. 28 500 families have agreed to pay it back in one amount. And I would like to confirm what my fellow Member said in two minutes: please, no one who did not buy it will be on the street, those who did not want it because of their age, because of their circumstances, or they have been told that this is good for them as it is, that as a tenant they will continue to stay in the apartment and live as tenants. So I think in this Polemic about the asset manager, I ask that it should not be essentially rejection. I have been an opposition politician myself, I know the driving forces of opposition behaviour, but I ask you to acknowledge here within the walls of this House that many families have been helped by the institutional line of the last 7 to 8-9 years, and that the operation of the asset manager, which has now completed its operation, has achieved its purpose, has fulfilled its task, and that is why we are presenting it. I wouldn't go into detail about the rust zones and the brown areas, not the historical part, but anyone interested in the literary part of the matter, please study, let's say, the recultivation of Central England, the cradle of the industrial revolution in the 1960s, which, I think, covered four or five Counties, and was specifically a state program. A very significant state program, without a doubt, was a 30-year programme, as a result of which a then-defeated, horrific image... I have had the pleasure of seeing people living on 8-10 metres of industrial waste from the Welsh miners to the 20s of steel works in Central England, otherwise living in the terrible conditions of the rich England. After 30 years, I'm not saying that an earthly paradise is a beautiful green countryside, a fundamentally changed structure, specifically with a state program. As far as partnership, negotiation, negotiation are concerned, allow only two counter-examples here. One, when, five years ago, there was no doubt that this metropolitan leadership was not discussing the state takeover of the capital agglomeration, we negotiated for ten months. Mayor Tarlos and his men were unheard of unpleasant negotiators, we chewed each other for ten months until we agreed. And we agreed, and we negotiated, and we agreed, and to this day, the scope of this agreement is coming to an end this year, and I am very curious about it. I would like to ask my fellow Members to write to you, to return to it in winter, and I am very curious that with the current leadership in the capital, we will be able to negotiate with results for ten months. And the other: I was also a part of the opposition when we were preparing for the World Swimming Championship, and the XIII. We have achieved very important products in the district, which have also been criticised by the opposition, but which are otherwise extremely successful and spectacular. And please, the XIII. We discussed, sat down, agreed, and it took place in full cooperation. So please do not dissuade us from being partners, do not argue that we see the municipalities as partners. Another issue is that there are such large-scale things, and this current amendment concerns these large-scale zones or zones, where there is a profile to be given. [[13.30]] But what is the zone, for example, and one of my fellow Members here asked, perhaps Mr Szakács suggested why we should not involve local governments in zoning because it is the zoning that we have established, which is the neighbouring municipal classification, so we accept what the municipalities have said in the first place. So I ask you to believe us or to assume that you don't believe anything about us, but suppose you do have that intention, and we know that you can't. It is a separate subject, and I do not want to test the President's patience by taking out the subject of City Park; please do not always look for fault in us, whether it is the City Park or the Chain Bridge. And when you ask, Mr. President, that we want to agree in one way or another, I would also ask you to ask the current metropolitan leadership that they want to agree in one way or another, and that they are able to be so European-ranking, extremely spectacular... and it is not true that it is not good; it is good for culture, good for the green zone, good for the population of the capital, good for the population of the district concerned. To develop the City Park, please believe that in decades, everyone who is sitting here, sitting here together, sitting at that age and saying good or bad things about it will be proud, but we said something about it, we were part of that development. It will determine the viability and development of a significant part of Budapest for a hundred years or more. I would like to say to Congressman Mesterházy: please, we are not withdrawing municipal rights, there is no intention, these legislative proposals do not contain this in any detail, and I repeat, where this could be done. The rental housing programme was also proposed. Please, the first Orbán government has also started housing programs, this always happens, they come in a wave where the apartments are, because we really need the young people, we need the smaller apartments, we need the studio apartments, we need the young married people, and after a while, the property comes to the fore, and then the demand is to sell them. I am asking you not to consider this a government or economic uncertainty, but a natural process that results from the change in the number and age of families and our expectations of a return to property, not to mention that there is a cultural part of it. There is a part of the world where the concept of renting is almost unknown, and there is where most of the apartments are rented, because the mobility needs of the population is such that they do not want to book themselves in a particular place with property. Finally, not because of his mood, just because he pricked my ear: Congressman Varju, it is strange when DK mentions the existence of the new bourgeoisie, and how should I put it? vomit to our eyes that the new bourgeoisie exists. I believe that the new bourgeoisie can be found in DK's ranks, perhaps sooner than we have. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, and once again I ask that anyone who knows should support this bill, and who does not, also accept that this has been put forward with good intentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-33	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, CXXV of 2009 on Hungarian sign language and the use of Hungarian sign language. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The proposal submitted by Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz, T/10734. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-34	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Without sign language and culture, I am like a bird without wings, perhaps the world's first deaf rapper said this quote at the conference held in this hall in 2007, at the 100-year anniversary ceremony of the National Association of Deafs and Hearers. Transcribing this idea can equally apply to any language, to any nation, to any national minority, because every person without his own language, his native tongue, his own culture, has lost its root. This also applies to us, and we are not ourselves without sign language for the deaf and sign language community. Before I get to the bill, it's worth a little looking back over the past decade to see where we've come from. I mentioned the 2007 conference, which was preceded by the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Hungary was the first to ratify in the world. This has greatly facilitated the work that has led to the adoption of the Sign Language Act. This UN Convention states that it includes spoken language, sign language and other forms of non-spoken language. This was followed in 2009 by the parliamentary decision adopted unanimously by the Parliament at the time, which called it the task of the Parliament to prepare the sign language law within a reasonable time. After about one year of preparatory work, Parliament unanimously adopted this law on 9 November 2009, and I am in the lucky position to say that I was there during the vote, and I celebrated the results of the vote with my fellow voters, and that was a great step forward in the life of the Hungarian deaf and hearing and the sign language community. But what do we owe to this law? First of all, the law recognises sign language as the language and mother tongue of the deaf community, and recognises that the deaf community is also a linguistic minority. After several years of uncertainty, he settled the situation of the interpretation services, as well as the rules of their operation and the rules of their financing. He also directed the situation of sign language interpreters who had been hanging in the air, with their OKJ degree, so to speak, and the language law settled their position by establishing the national register of sign language interpreters. Only those who are included in this register and who meet the criteria for inclusion in the register can have a sign language translation service since then. Since the adoption of the Sign Language Act, the state-funded interpretation service has been provided, i.e. the access of deaf persons and users of sign language to sign language services. [[13.40]] This is provided and financed by the state 36,000 hours a year. Thus, a customer, a deaf person who meets the conditions for using the interpreter service, is entitled to 120 hours of free interpretation service per year and is entitled to interpretation even after his education hours. It was also an important step forward to include deaf blinds in sign language translation. They use their own special communication system, but it's also in the law. The amendment of the media law was also a huge step forward, as the Sign Language Act amended the media law by making the programmes accessible in an increasing number of hours from the following year. Accessibility started two hours a day, and according to the Media Authority's report, progress is very visible. In 2011, 22 percent of the programme time was accessible in accessible form, almost 40 percent in 2012 being accessible to hearing impaired people. In parentheses, during the audit work, the monitoring board found 264 days and a total of 6063 broadcast hours accessible. The quality of the audit work and the quality of the audit process have also increased over time. In 2019, 83 percent of the programme time was already available, accessible, with a total of 400 days and 9535 programme hours. So the control itself became stricter, more thorough after the time. Not least, the Sign Language Act provides a sign language interpreter service for Members with hearing disabilities or sign language users, whether it is a Member of the European Parliament or a Member of Parliament or a representative of the local government. Ten years since the 2009 Sign Language Act. The process had several important stages. The first such important station is the Fundamental Law, which was adopted by the Parliament in 2011. The Fundamental Law states that the Hungarian state protects the Hungarian sign language as part of the Hungarian culture. In the European Union, we are the fourth Member State to mention sign language at constitutional level. Several laws then included the concept of sign language or the provision of the right related to the use of sign language. For example, the Act on Election Procedure, which included the need to make political advertising accessible either by subtitle or by sign language interpretation. There was also a provision in the Civil Code that was unthinkable so long as a deaf person with a sign language could make an oral will in sign language, so that if the situation were to take place, he would have two witnesses who knew the sign language. The next major stop was 2017 because, in November 2017, the third international conference of the World Federation of Deafs was held in Hungary, and before that, after a few months of preparatory work, the National Assembly unanimously agreed that every year the date of adoption of the sign language law should be the day of Hungarian sign language. This was announced at the conference of the international deaf community by the then EMMI Minister Zoltán Balog; and the announcement by Prime Minister Orbán was also a very powerful announcement that Hungary would initiate and support the UN General Assembly so that from that year on, the last Sunday of September of every year, would be the international day of sign language. After several stops, we came to the point of re-introducing this topic, and ten years have passed, so there have been several questions and proposals that have been worth examining and submitting as a bill, together with my fellow Member Zsolt Nyitrai, on the initiative of the National Federation of Deafs and Hearers. After more than six months of preparatory work and consultation, we presented this proposal in this form. I would like to highlight several elements of the proposal now. One was the clarification of the definitions, which was very necessary, because the 2009 law of 10 years ago provided the interpretation service and also settled the situation of the interpreters, but did not define precisely the concept of the interpreter, the concept of sign language interpreter service. We can make up for that now. What would be the biggest step if the Parliament adopted the proposal, I quote from the proposal that the state-acclaimed language examination of Hungarian sign language is a state-acclaimed language examination of foreign language knowledge under the law on national higher education, i.e. a State-recognized language examination or a related government decree, which states that the language examination can be obtained from natural or artificial, living or dead languages. The Hungarian sign language meets this criterion, as the Sign Language Act also states that Hungary recognises the Hungarian sign language as an independent natural language. Secondly, it is the same complex system as any other language, the sounding languages, because sign languages have grammatical language, grammatical system, the same grammatical sub-systems, language levels and linguistic categories can be separated in it as in any other language or sounding language. You can learn it as a native language. He has a regular live community that uses sign language as a native language. The deaf community is the third largest linguistic and cultural minority in Hungary. For more than ten years, KER has been teaching Hungarian sign language in Hungary on the basis of the Common European Framework. The instructors are constantly being developed, there are continuous training courses. The material of sign language training is available from A1 to C1 levels in line with KER levels, so we are ready to introduce this system after more than ten years of professional work. Currently, there are around 800-1000 people a year who study sign language in Hungary on some KER levels. About 100 to 200 of them are students who also reach language exam levels. This number could be higher if a state-recognized language exam could be made out of Hungarian sign language. A further amendment is to clarify and extend the scope of the right to use the interpreter service, in the case of deaf blinds. It is also an important step that, like the register of sign language interpreters, we create the register of sign language instructors, thus settling their situation and thus the situation of teaching Hungarian sign language. [[13.50]] So we cannot fall into the mistake of teaching Hungarian sign language so that only teachers registered in the register can teach Hungarian sign language. The number of instructors currently meets these criteria is around 40. They may be registered instructors who have completed or completed the sign language training course established after 28 September 2018 by the National Association of Desetek and Nagyodhalók and obtain a certificate there, or have a degree in sign language linguistics and didactics. If we accept this proposal, what can we expect, what positive consequences can this have? Graduation skills of those with a state-recognized sign language exam can be increased and their position in the labour market can be improved. There would be a chance for deaf graduates to reach a doctoral degree or a career in research; this is still a problem for deaf graduates, but this is just a parentheses note. The situation of sign language allowances could also be settled and transparent if the language supplement were to be granted only after the state-acclaimed sign language examination. Cultural life would also be enriched if a language that has been taught little would rise to the level of language examination, and Hungary would be the first in the European Union to allow a state-approved language exam in sign language. I would like to mention the name of Iván Vasák, who was the Secretary-General of SINOSZ between 1989 and 2000, the first deaf secretary-general of the organization, whose first, if not the biggest dream, was to recognise sign language. Fortunately, it was worth it in 2009 because we recognised sign language by adopting the Sign Language Act. This was a huge step in the struggle of the deaf and hearing. Unfortunately, however, it is no longer possible for Parliament to accept the present bill, since it died this year, February. I would also like him and all my fellow workers, professionals, linguists who have worked, worked, researched on this topic over the past decade, and have contributed their work to making sign language possible until now, recommending this bill to all of you. And allow me one more thought: you cannot miss the subject of the corona virus, because it has had a great influence on our community as well as not only on us, but also on the communities of foreign deaf people, the sign language communities. We are in a lucky position to have a wonderful sign language law, which made it clear that, after the outbreak of the corona virus, the task force that helps accessibility in the present situation, even at daily press conferences of the operational tribe, was set up within a short time. And the same can also be observed in other countries, also in countries where there has been no sign language anywhere; whether there is no sign language law or there is a very low level of interpretation service, so I could say, but the situation created by the coronal virus has also led to developments in these countries that have increased the quality of deaf people's lives and their access to accessible communication. I can trust that in these countries, not only in our countries, this accessibility will remain at the same level. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] Finally, I would like to quote Helen Keller: "The only thing worse than blindness is having a vision, but we have no vision. The Sign Language Act gave us a new vision in 2009 and gave us a wider perspective for the Hungarian deaf and sign language community. Over the past ten years, we have changed a lot, we have improved our quality of life and the quality of our lives. This can only be said by those who have lived the last 30 to 40 years, and they can see how far this area has started and where we have come in this time. I hope that our current proposal will further expand, further enrich this vision. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-04-35	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you so much for your help. I'm going to ask the government's representative, Mr. Secretary Philip, if you'd like to reflect now. [[On Attila Philip's mark:]] You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-36	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In conjunction with his speech, it was indeed a milestone when Hungary first ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which includes the obligations relating to sign language, ensuring the use of the sign language necessary for people with disabilities, such as hearing disabilities and deaf blind persons, thereby significantly improving the standard of living. It has been more than a decade since the memorable moment when Ádám Kósa, Member of the European Parliament, spoke first in Hungarian sign language in September 2009 during the general debate of the Sign Language Act. After that, a law was adopted that complexly resolves life situations affecting the daily lives of hearing-damaged people, making a huge step towards the social integration of deaf, deaf, and deaf blind people. Another decisive step was taken in 2011, when Hungary joined the ranks of the few states which laid down in the Fundamental Law that it considered sign language to be part of national culture and thus protected. There are over 70,000 deaf and hearing people in Hungary, their old dreams and aspirations to fully exercise their right of communication. The Sign Language Act has made it a mandatory state task to finance the free sign language translation service and to subtitle television programmes or to interpret sign language. Let us look at the progress made in media regulation, as, thanks to the media law, we can all see a constant increase in the proportion of television programmes broadcast with subtitles and sign language interpretations. Consider the New Year's toast or the daily press conferences of the operational tribe, where we can really follow the information given in sign language interpretation every day. A national register of sign language interpreters was established by the Sign Language Act and the prestige of the interpreter profession increased by the operation of the compulsory further training system. The service today represents a high level of quality anywhere in the country. Under the Sign Language Act, it has become natural for deaf people to use their mother tongue, the Hungarian language, in all official and official procedures. We can be proud that in 2013, with the initiative of SINOSZ and the support of the government, the Kontakt video interpreter service has been established, which now allows thousands of hearing-damaged people to use mobile devices to immediately access sign language translation services. All of this is a great help to them because they can thus replace their personal request. At the same time, it should be pointed out that more than a thousand people with hearing problems could have obtained smart mobile devices free of charge. Following this, the government in 2017 had one of those XXI. It has launched the creation of a 21st century infocommunication-based distance service, which provides enormous help in the everyday life of people with disabilities. [[14.00]] These include creating an innovative accessibility remote service, which does not require personal presence. We are also looking forward to and hoping to improve the situation in the labour market. The government is deeply committed to hearing-damaged people and sign language. As has been said, the World Federation of Deafs has assessed Hungary's unbroken activity for years in order to create the social integration of deaf and hearing-damaged people in 2017, when its third international conference, the main patron of which was Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, chose Budapest as the venue for his event. Dear House, Based on the above, it is visible and transparent how important sign language is in the lives of hearing impaired people, especially deaf people, for them not the sounds, not the signs, not the spoken Hungarian language, but the Hungarian sign language is the primary means of communication. Their communication and culture are based on sign language, a channel on which they are able to express their thoughts and emotions at the mother tongue level and through which they can obtain information the easiest and safest. One of the key tasks of the government is to help people with disabilities to live their full lives, to provide services that are tailored to the specific needs of our disabled countrymen, and which, in their daily lives, allow more complete access to education, culture, public services and various areas of social life. In order to guarantee even more fully the involvement of people with disabilities in the life of society, it is indeed necessary to amend certain provisions of the law. The government is working for a society in which people with disabilities can find their place, and the proposals for amendments are aimed at achieving this goal, and the government therefore supports the bill taking into account the following. Because what new changes does the law contain? First of all, it was about extending the interpretation provisions, which really means that the law now provides for sign language interpretation services, but did not specify the content of them, and the regulation makes up for this deficiency. The second is the state recognition of the language exam from the Hungarian sign language. The government agrees that the Hungarian sign language should not only be symbolically recognised, but that it should also be subject to a state-approved language examination. Since the adoption of the Sign Language Act, it has been subject to all the conditions. Hungary is already at the forefront of the development and application of the sign language language examination system, and the practice of testing has been in line with international standards for over a decade. Thirdly, we have heard that the establishment and management of the register of sign language teachers are included in this proposal in order to ensure the quality and assurance of Hungarian sign language education. As I said earlier, like the National Register of Sign Language Interpreters, a list of teachers would now be introduced, which is likely to increase the future quality of education by registering those with the qualifications required for teaching sign language. Fourthly, the proposal includes the possibility of accounting for the cost of sign language interpretation used in the context of a health service financed under social security, where it is important to mention it and not to mention that the costs of sign language interpretation used under the current law are borne as a main rule by the organisation performing the activity or providing services, and the amendment will result in social security being charged with financing the costs of interpretations used in the framework of health services. Fifthly, the proposal provides for qualification requirements for teaching Hungarian sign language. The government also supports this, and the objective of adapting to reality, is to involve native language users in the sign language education of deaf children. Dear House, With the amendments presented, we are taking a number of important steps to improve the social integration of deaf and hearing people, of which I would like to highlight two more. One of these changes is a key issue for the future of children, because it is an important decision that children can also be taught by native speakers, since the involvement of these people can create higher quality sign language education. The second one, as the author pointed out, is that the qualification of the language exam from Hungarian sign language as a state-acclaimed language exam, so that the choice of sign language as a foreign language can be made more attractive, with its long-term significance and impact speaking for itself. It would be exemplary if, while maintaining our leading role in supporting sign language culture, our country first recognised the sign language language exam as a state language examination demonstrating foreign language knowledge. Hungary protects sign language as part of Hungarian culture. I think the common goal of all of us is for deaf and hearing people to become full in all aspects of their lives. Dear House, Apart from some of the worse-remembered votes of the last period, the Hungarian Parliament supports cases of disability in almost all cases in a large and sometimes unanimous manner. I sincerely hope that all Members today still have a greater responsibility for this, and knowing that we are talking about special lives, can support reasonable proposals. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, the Government supports this bill. Please do the same. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-06-04-37	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-38	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In the debate on the Hungarian sign language and the amendment of the Hungarian sign language law, I would like to welcome Mr Ádám Kósa, MEP and Mr Gergely Tapolczai, Member of Parliament. Ádám Kósa and Gergely Tapolczai wrote history by speaking first in sign language in the Hungarian Parliament and in the European Parliament. Dear Parliament, Today is the day of national solidarity, and this means not only belonging to Hungarians and fellow nations across the border, but also to our fellow countrymen with disabilities. Today, nearly one million people are affected by disability in Hungary. One of the main tasks of the Government of Hungary is to ensure that they can live a full life. Together with the representative organisations, we are working to ensure that the everyday special needs of our countrymen with disabilities are as secure as possible, whether it is education or the labour market. We believe that people with disabilities are not persons in need of charity or assistance, but are equal and equal members of our society. In recent years, Hungary has taken significant legislative steps to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, to promote their independent lifestyle and social integration. As an important pillar of this, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the ten-year national disability programme in 2015, the main principles of which are: prevention, self-determination, full and effective participation in society. We thank the people working in disability organisations for supporting the national disability programme with their work, helping to make progress and achieve it. The strategic partners of Hungary's Government are disability organisations, and their budget support has been growing ever since 2010. [[14.10]] The government also has an important aim of enabling as many of our countrymen as possible to work on the labour market. For this purpose, since 2014, we have ensured by law that the amount of disability allowance is regularly increased. Employers can simply enforce the tax relief for their workers with disabilities. In 2018, about 9 thousand employers used this discount for 38 thousand people, by 2019 more than 45 thousand employees had been used by employers for this kind of support. For those who cannot work with market players, we have created so-called protected jobs, they can work here. The largest such companies are Handicraft, ERFO, the Main Brush, where more than 7500 people with disabilities work. Thank you for the jobs that employ people with disabilities, for providing our fellow countrymen with disabilities with jobs, livelihoods, and for the reliable quality work of workers with disabilities. Dear Parliament, An agreement was also reached in 2017 between the Hungarian Government and the large advocacy organisations on accessible public and municipal events. Thanks to this agreement, disabled people with sensory and intellectual disabilities are more easily allowed to attend state commemorations and special commemorations than this is the case today. We always make events accessible to deaf and sign language users by means of sign language interpretation. The Government of Hungary also supports parasportists. As a result of the 2016 sports law amendment, sports for people with disabilities has become more favourable and important, both professional and financial support have become more important. With a five-party agreement, the Hungarian Parliament also decided in December 2017 on the Hungarian Parasport Day and the Day of Hungarian Deaf Sport. At the beginning of the week, on Tuesday, June 2nd, on the day of the Hungarian deaf sport, we greeted the deaf athletes of Hungary. Dear Parliament, In recent years, exemplary cooperation has been established between the Government of Hungary and advocacy organisations. As a result, every year, obstacles to people with disabilities, including deaf blinds and hearing impaired ones, are removed. In order to achieve social integration, Hungary's Government has set up a unique model in Europe, which provides continuous assistance to 2300-2400 deaf and deaf countrymen throughout the country, within the framework of free interpretation services. A number of points of the UN Disability Convention adopted in 2017 concern the sign language, including the recognition and promotion of the use of sign language by States Parties, support the linguistic identity of the hearing-damaged community and the right of persons with disabilities to recognise and support their specific cultural and linguistic identity, including sign language and deaf culture, on an equal basis with others. Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law of Hungary has established the protection of Hungarian sign language since 2011 and that it considers it part of Hungarian culture. In 2009, the Parliament adopted the law on Hungarian sign language and the use of Hungarian sign language without voting against. We have set out to solve further tasks in this area. In consultation with Attila Fülöp, Secretary of State, staff of the Ministry of Human Resources, staff of the Group, Ádám Kósa, Member Gergely Tapolczai, we are working to ensure that people with disabilities are able to participate equally in society in the amendment of the Hungarian Sign Language and the use of Hungarian Sign Language, so that they can acquire as many marketable skills as possible and do the right work as they can. In addition to defining sign language as a language of its own, the 2009 Act has declared the provision of free sign language to deaf and deaf persons as a mandatory public task. This substantive sign language regulation was also outstanding in international comparison, but the more than ten years since its creation have had the potential for a number of innovations, which is why, in our view, it is absolutely justified and necessary to amend this legislation. Several people have mentioned that one of the essential elements of the amendment is the state recognition of the language exam from the Hungarian sign language. Since the Hungarian language and the Hungarian sign language are two separate natural languages, we initiated the public recognition of sign language exams at European level. As a pioneer, our country would be the first to recognize the sign language language exam as a state language exam. The cost of sign language interpretation has been amended as it was justified for deaf persons to supplement and modify the eligibility criteria for using free sign language translation services. Dear Parliament, Qualification requirements for the training of sign language have also been laid down. It is noted that the Hungarian sign language can be taught by the medical education of hearing impaired persons, as the conditions for the vocational education of sign language are not yet guaranteed in Hungary, and there is currently no teacher in sign language. As a result, deaf children are taught in public institutions by non-native signers even if they have a teacher's degree. The aim of the regulation is therefore to enable deaf children to learn the Hungarian sign language, preferably with the help of a native language user who has such a professional degree. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment was partly justified because of the experience of the last ten years and partly in order to educate deaf and sign language users at the highest possible level. The proposal is based on a professional basis and forward-looking, and I am pleased that we have managed to reach this point. By adopting the amendment of the law, we can make serious progress in order to ensure that our disabled and sound fellow citizens can find their place in our country, which is why I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-39	Thank you very much. Now the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Brenner Koloman, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the People's Party Jobbik, I would like to provide this legislative amendment package for our support, even because our aim is, of course, to ensure a full and happy life for all Hungarian citizens in a growing country, and that is, of course, the community of deaf people and hearers. Allow me to make my speech a little more personal, as I was a university leader and a linguist expert in preparing sign language courses, after both my rapporteur and my colleague from Tapolcza and then the secretary of state and the lead speaker before me presented the details of this bill in very detailed detail. I remember well the time when, after the adoption of the 2009 law, we thought that the training of teachers teaching sign language could begin very soon, as I mentioned, in this process I, as a linguist speaking a minority language, and as an accreditation university leader, took part, and I very much supported it. Obviously, the aim of this debate is not to clarify why this step has not yet taken place, but I would like to pay tribute to the fact that this bill before us is an important step in the direction of finally providing school education to those who use the Hungarian sign language at the mother tongue level. I also consider it important to have an accurate definition of who is the native language user, so, and here I would like to quote a brief detail from the law itself:,... the person who naturally mastered the Hungarian sign language in a deaf family or deaf community during his pre-adult linguistic socialization can express his thoughts in Hungarian sign language in the easiest, most nuanced way, and has at least a C1 level of Hungarian sign language knowledge. [[14.20]] This is important because this issue, as indicated by the justification for the proposal, has been published for a long time in a therapeutic pedagogical context, and I am very pleased that we have been able to go beyond that, and indeed for the sake of the community of sign language users, there are regulations to facilitate their day-to-day full and happy lives, contained in the package of amendments to this bill, which we once again provide for our support on behalf of Jobbik. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-04-41	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, lead speaker for KDNP, please.
u2020-06-04-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, We Christian democrats are committed to making the lives of our disabled fellow citizens easier and not only symbolically stand by them at the level of words, but also by real action to give them the opportunity to live quality. In 2009, the Hungarian National Assembly adopted the Sign Language Act on Hungarian Sign Language and the Use of Hungarian Sign Language without a vote or abstention on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It was still apparent that this was a national matter above party policy. In the 11 years since then, new knowledge and experience have been gained. Progress has been made towards the development of the quality of life of people with disabilities and employment. Based on the experience of the past ten years, in order to further improve and correct the regulation of the 2009 Sign Language Act, thanks to the work of MEPs Ádám Kósa and Gergely Tapolczai, and with the professional work of the State Secretary-General Attila Fülöp, and with the help of my fellow Member, Zsolt Nyitrai, we have drawn up a bill that is now before us. Allow me to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members, Gergely Tapolczai and Ádám Kósa, for the incredible work that they have done on this subject in both the European scene and in Hungary in recent decades. Their role and responsibility is historic, and I think that they have also taken the opportunity or responsibility that they have received from the grace of God, and on behalf of all Hungarian people, I would like to thank them for their work and ask them to continue this work both at home and in the European Parliament, and not to stop their work for people with disabilities, but to continue at least at the same high level in the future. Thank you very much. One of the most important changes in the bill is the state recognition of the language exam from the Hungarian sign language. This is a unique development in the world, which appreciates the work and efforts of people who learn sign language and are willing to help, and I would add here, as my colleague Hollik, who has already said, that he may have a very important role in the employment of people with disabilities. We see the efforts made by the civil national government over the last ten years to increase employment, and we see that more than 40 percent of our countrymen with changed working skills can now work, doing value-making and value-bearing work in Hungarian society. We hope that, with the help of the language exam, the diploma will enable them to fill several higher added value jobs, so that the whole Hungarian society can benefit from this measure. Language examination is a very important step forward, as I mentioned. The amendment also aims to ensure that the state-acclaimed language examination of Hungarian sign language is qualified as a State-accredited language examination certifying foreign language knowledge under the law on national higher education. The bill also states that sign language interpretation used in healthcare services should be free of charge. The current proposal also applies the qualification requirements for teaching Hungarian sign language to reality and lifelikeness. The aim of the regulation is to enable deaf children to learn the Hungarian sign language as far as possible with the help of native language users who have the necessary qualifications and qualifications. Supporting our fellow people with disabilities and helping them is not a political issue for us. I ask my fellow Members that, like the 2009 vote, the current bill will be adopted unanimously by the Parliament in favour of party policy, with no votes against or abstentions. We do our part: the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-04-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP, please.
u2020-06-04-44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First of all, we support the amendment by the Hungarian Socialist Party. The amendment consists of three important parts: the language exam from the sign language corresponds to a state-approved language exam from July. It is noted that deaf blinds are also entitled to use the free sign language translation service, and that health care will in the future be carried out at the expense of free signal translation, creating a register of sign language teachers. I don't want to repeat the things I've been told before. We are talking about a very important amendment to the law. There is much to talk about in Hungary so that disability is not a disadvantage for anyone. The legislative amendments that are trying to solve these disadvantages are very important, and we are submitting amendments from either the government side or from the opposition that help these people to live their daily lives, and that play a role in overcoming these disadvantages. My fellow Member from Tapolcza also said very nicely how we got to this point, how the 2009 Act was born. By the way, my fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, played a major role in that law at the time. It is very important that we also know the history of this amendment, how we have come to this point. My fellow Member from Tapolcza mentioned that since the state-approved language examination, it will be recorded that the use of sign language will then be qualified as a language examination. I hope, then, that on the part of the governing party or the opposition, we will come up with an amendment to say that it will be recognised for a degree as a language exam, and that this can now be recognised as a language for obtaining a diploma and then they can receive their diploma. Here, too, it should be said that there will be a language examination if we vote in favour of this amendment. Will the Secretary of State be able to comment on this, that he will be able to receive a language examination after this? However, there is only one critical point to this amendment, and we are also presenting an amendment by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Allow me to say this a little longer. It's the interpretation part for health care, which is a little critical. Although it should have been, but the interpretation was not financed by the health institutions themselves, in many cases the right holders solved the question by saying that their own annual personal framework, which was available free of charge, required interpretation at the cost of 120 hours, in order to facilitate their independent living. This situation is now being resolved by saying that health institutions are not obliged to provide it, but will be legally eligible for 120 hours. This is typically a Faramuci solution from the government. In view of the fact that interpretation often becomes necessary in healthcare, the possibility of free service in other cases will therefore be reduced. We are trying to resolve this and we are presenting an amendment to my fellow Member, Lajos Korózs and Zita Gurmai, and we are asking the Secretary of State to consider adopting this amendment. [[14.30]] We submitted it with a positive intention, because, as I said in my introduction, it is very important to make as many amendments as possible to help people with disabilities. This is also aimed at resolving this problem. I think it's only a matter of will on the part of the government. I can only repeat that as many of these amendments are tabled from the government side by the fellow Members, and, of course, I can only repeat myself that we support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-06-04-45	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bősz Anett, headnote speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai for his presentation and for the fact that the proposal before us seems to be a good proposal, both in terms of good intentions and professional foundations, and a good proposal. So I can only repeat the speeches that have been made to date by fellow opposition Members in terms of the maximum support for this proposal, and I would also like to thank you once again for bringing this to the House. I think it is a great step forward that obtaining a language examination recognised by the State from sign language can contribute to obtaining a diploma, if I understand this proposal correctly. They present an approach with this legislative amendment proposal which is very welcome, namely that staying in school and, where appropriate, obtaining a school education to our basically disadvantaged countrymen have significant difficulties with non-disabled schoolmates. So it is very good that we look at any partial disability or any minor disability, we should be aware that these fellow citizens, who benefit from the bill in question or from a legislative amendment proposal, are having a lot of difficulties in many areas of life. I would like to add to the speeches so far and mention that it would be good if we could make great progress in practical terms so that the conditions for sign language education can really be achieved. For now, they are less given in our country. I think that even if we saw in practice the progress made in the proposal, the people concerned, the families of the people concerned, could indeed be satisfied with these steps. It is a great pleasure for me that the legislative proposal refers to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and does not merely express harmonisation efforts, but indeed its intention, as we have heard for a large number of Hungarian minorities, to make changes that are also forward-looking in their daily lives, which I think we can all be pleased to hear. However, I would like to note that, unfortunately, citizens with disabilities in our country are suffering from many disadvantages, whether I look at labour market conditions, whether it is our school system or just joining everyday life, or joining friends; listening to our fellow countrymen with disabilities, this can be called psychological accessibility. However, in many areas we are still at a disadvantage against our fellow Europeans in terms of accessibility. It does not belong closely to this legislative amendment proposal, but let me talk about the fact that we can also show a guide lane not far from Kossuth tér that simply leads our poorly-seeing or blind compatriots into a building. I don't think that's acceptable. But we know the ramps where the traffic of wheelchair users or even of parents pushing a stroller is particularly dangerous because the angle of the ramp is inadequate. So, I would very much welcome, as has already been said by opposition colleagues, that if, in other areas and for people with other disabilities, such legislative amendments could be submitted by the pro-government representatives and that we could move forward in practice in order to ensure that accessibility is actually achieved. If I may, I would also like to talk about a point in the legislative amendment proposal which, by the way, will certainly not prevent me personally from supporting this proposal. This is that there is a difference of opinion between us in determining a criminal record as a prerequisite for inclusion in the register. I think that there is a place in this House, by the way, for the ideas that we are talking about the role of prison execution, and for the possibility that, if there is a successful reintegration process, perhaps our countrymen who have been reintegrated into society can also be given an opportunity in a particularly important profession, namely: sign language education, to return to their profession. I'm asking you to consider this. But really, I'll tell you again, you're not gonna stop me from supporting this law-modifying man. I would like to say, as one of the closings of my speech, what you have referred to, the sign language law adopted in 2009, I think it is a special pride that at that time it was a government governing the social democratic liberal coalition that finally managed to achieve a sign language law. I have a colleague, Louis Korózs, who has fought a great deal in this regard. It is a great pleasure for me that, by the way, we can now continue to improve this fundamentally very good regulation together, and I have noticed from the speeches that everyone has this intention. In this sense, I can therefore say, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition and the Liberal Party, that this is basically a highly eligible proposal. I would like to mention a few other points in which I think our country needs to improve. On the one hand, it is necessary to create the conditions for sign language education to take place at a very small age. It is important to prepare balanced and parents' responsible decision-making information material. Hearing - impaired mentors could also help parents to introduce their own lives to a family where a deaf child arrived. This could significantly help the stakeholders involved. It would be important to provide free sign language courses for the parents concerned and to increase the family allowance for children with disabilities. Once again, these points, which I am listing, do not detract from the good intentions of the current amendment, but I would ask you to really consider these proposals that we are making here. Indeed, it is important that it is able to make progress by translating it into practice. It is important that quality education requires well-educated, financially respected teachers and education in sign language education, and that the government also has to comply with its legal obligation to initiate the training of sign language teachers in order to achieve the bilingual education of deaf children. I wanted to say these things, and I would like to thank you very much for listening. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-06-04-47	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. So I now give the floor to Mr Ádám Kósa, representative of the European Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-48	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I have been a Member of the European Parliament for more than ten years, but I am still touched when I arrive in the walls of the beautiful Parliament. More than ten years ago, on 29 September 2009, I was able to speak as a newly elected MEP in the Hungarian Sign Language, my mother tongue, in the history of the Parliament. What was then historical is now common, as this House has long had a deaf, sign language user representative in the person of Gergely Tapolczai, who strengthens the Fidesz faction. In 2009, Gergely Tapolczai watched the events from the gallery during the debate of the law and during the vote. That's what they say, life is a great director. [[14.40]] Allow me, fellow Members, to take a little look at the last ten years from the point of view of Hungarian sign language. In 2009, there was no state-funded, uniform standard national sign language interpreter service. It is now commonplace and customary for deaf sign language users, hearers, and deaf people to use sign language interpreters at any time. Since 2009, in an innovative way, the Sign Language Translator Service in the National Association of Desetek and Nagyodhalók, which I have led, has created from 2014 a readily available Internet-based service, with sign language and text translation, this CONTACT interpreter service, which I am sure you have heard a lot about, and what hearing-damaged people use in everyday life, is also available to me. In 2009, there were hardly any tv shows with subtitles. Today, almost all programs are accessible, with subtitles, and this not only makes them accessible to hearing-damaged parents who sleep with children in the evening or to foreign people living in Hungary. In 2009, it was very difficult for deaf customers to receive a sign language interpreter in the courts, and if the judge was available or ordered, the costs of interpreting the unsuccessful were often borne by the employer. In 2009, if a deaf person wanted to sign a contract with a notary, he needed two additional witnesses who had to be available all along and who showed that the deaf person understood what he was signing in the contract. The sign language interpreter is now available at every court hearing, and the court pays for its costs. Today, there is no need for the deaf person to call separate witnesses before the notary. It is clear that the situation of Hungarian sign language was completely different in 2009. Now there is a separate law on Hungarian sign language and the use of Hungarian sign language. This law states, and I would like to quote it precisely: the Hungarian sign language: the independent natural language developed in Hungary with its own grammatical system and rules, consisting of visual language signals used by hearing impaired persons. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Hungary's Fundamental Law regards the Hungarian sign language as part of culture. Dear Colleagues, Mr Tapolczai also mentioned that sign language was recognised in a total of four countries by law or basic law in Europe. I would like to add that only 11 countries in the world recognise sign language in a constitution, and we can be proud of that. Over the past ten years, the fact that deaf young people sign on the bus has been seen as strange. They no longer write letters of complaint in the television newspaper to be disturbed by the sign language interpreter, and the sign language itself became increasingly popular. In a somewhat paradoxical way, the coronal virus epidemic has helped the process that the press conferences of the operational tribe and the government information have become accessible through sign language interpretation, so the presence of Hungarian sign language has become commonplace for Hungarian television viewers. It is therefore a legitimate question why the amendment is necessary. The answer is very simple. Life is constantly making changes, and we, the legislators, have a duty to recognise, accept and transpose them into the legislation. I would like to thank my fellow Members Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai for their support for the amendment of the Sign Language Act, after I initiated, on behalf of SINOSZ, a forward-looking amendment of the Sign Language Act ten years ago. I would now like to share with you a few thoughts on the amendments. My fellow Members have been involved in a lot of things, and I would like to add a few things. I am convinced that it was necessary to define four concepts that I consider to be a fundamental issue in the use of Hungarian sign language. One is the sign language interpreter, the other is the sign language user, the native language user, and the third is the definition of sign language interpreter service. In the absence of this, a number of problems of interpretation and use of rights could arise in previous years. It is important to define what we mean by these terms. In addition, a completely new concept has been created or defined, which has not yet been addressed by my fellow Members, but I think it is important that this is the concept of deaf language interpreters. Many countries already have hearing-damaged sign language interpreters who use sign language in their native language, are fully aware of the use of language and have taken over culture, so they can help the interpretation process much more effectively in many areas. The Hungarian deaf community and sign language professionals have been developing, nursing and researching Hungarian sign language for more than ten years. Several projects were launched by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences Institute of Linguistics, which they managed and collaborated with the National Association of Deafs and Hearers. The research and description of sign language took place in these projects, and now there is no doubt that Hungarian sign language can be the language of a state-recognized language exam. If there were legislation for it, it would be possible to take a language exam from Hungarian sign language as early as tomorrow. Why am I saying this? The largest sign language teaching organisation, the National Association of Deafs and Great Hearers, has been teaching Hungarian sign language according to KER for ten years, the Common European Framework of Reference. And that has already been said, but I would like to stress that we have 40 high-level sign language instructors who teach 800-1000 students each year at different levels of Hungarian sign language. With the adoption of this proposal, the Hungarian sign language would finally be in place, because until a Hungarian sign language test can be passed, the recognition of Hungarian sign language is only symbolic. The only way to get a real language status is to get a language exam, so that's how we can ensure that. I think that, in the light of the results of the last ten years, we can take this step with courage. American sign language, so-called ASL, is the 8th most popular language among universities in the United States, so I believe that this will be the same with Hungarian sign language in Hungary. And what will that lead to? That in the near future, deaf, hearing and deaf blind people will be able to communicate with more and more of their compatriots in their own language. [[14.50]] We would like to establish a national list of sign language instructors, which would include Hungarian sign language instructors. Schools, courses and educational institutions could be taught by those who have adequate qualifications. Of course, the standards differ from one department to another, obviously depending on the nature of the institution, but this amendment contains this. In 2009, the Hungarian Parliament correctly stated that in the use of public services, the body providing the public service had to pay the costs and labour charges of the sign language interpreter. By the way, this system works very well in everyday life, except for health care. With a sober sense of peasants, it is difficult to convince a general practitioner to pay the labor fee of a sign language interpreter brought by a hearing impaired person. That is what this amendment is about. In fact, it is nothing more than to deal with this situation properly. Ladies and gentlemen, You often deal with a number of amendments that embrace pages. This proposal is all four pages, not a long amendment, and it is not complicated. At the same time, believe me, these four pages would further increase the quality of the sign language law adopted in 2009 and thus the prestige of Hungarian sign language. As a politician looking at this issue at European level, I can say with a calm heart that the ten-year Hungarian sign language law is world-class. It is also a curiosity, as my fellow Members have already said, that perhaps the only sign language law in the world adopted unanimously by a parliamentary assembly without voting against or abstaining. So what can I wish for? Let it be the same now. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-04-49	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'm going to ask the authors if they'd like to reflect on what's been said. [[On Dr. Gergely Tapolczai's mark:]] Mr Tapolczai, the floor is on the table. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-50	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their words of support. According to WHO data, at least 10 percent of all populations are affected by some degree of hearing loss. In particular, there are people using sign language, obviously fewer people than those with actual hearing impairments, but we can still talk about a very large number of communities. According to the 2011 census data, which I think is a bit of a fraud, because not all those involved have identified their own disability, but we can work with this data, so according to 2011 data, the number of deaf people is around 8800 in Hungary, and there are around 60,000 people who are dying. And there's one more thing that's certain, the number of members of the National Federation of Deafs and Hearers, and that's over 15,000. This includes the deaf and the hearing members. And how many are there who are not members? According to estimated data, 60,000 deaf people are affected in any way by sign language, sign language, and there are also interpreters, family members, and friends who use sign language in the same way in their daily lives. They are all covered by this bill, and on their behalf, I would like to thank you for the fact that if we will actually adopt this proposal, which I believe we have every chance. If an amending proposal is received, we will consider it. I would like to reflect on my colleague Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who is unfortunately no longer here. I understand his line of thought, but what he said should not be forgotten is that medical interpretation is financed or resolved at the expense of the individual watch frame. However, there is the Contact interpreter service, the video-based distance interpreter service, which in many cases triggers the interpreter's personal presence. I'd like to give you two figures. When the Kontakt service started in 2014, there were over 35,000 translated calls in the system, and there are no deaf-sketch calls between each other. In 2019 there were over 87,000 translated calls in this system. It also shows that deaf customers get used to this system, and they themselves realize that in many cases it is not worth 5 or 10 minutes to use the interpreter personally either for a medical care or for a administration, but it is much more effective to call the interpreter from home or from an office and take care of his various cases. The stakeholders themselves and the interpreters have seen the benefits of this over the years, and they have a much more efficient quality of life, schedules, travel times are decreasing, and I could tell you the benefits of this. There's an interesting theory about the criminal record. According to current legislation, depending on the crime, the person concerned will be exempted from the criminal record after a few years, but sooner or later the person concerned will be reintegrated into society. I hope that in our case, in the case of hearing impaired people and language educators, this will not be necessary, but, in any case, thank you for the suggestion, it is worth reconsidering. Thank you all again for your support. I hope that the vote will also have unanimous support for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-04-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in connection with the retirement of the 13th month's pension until closure. The government referral is T/10741. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák, who would like to make his presentation on the pulpitus. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-52	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I respectfully welcome the T/10741 on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the retirement of the 13th month's pension. in the general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the content of the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Since 2010, the civilian government has been working to express our appreciation for the elderly not only in words but also in decisions in their interests, and to do our utmost to ensure that our elderly compatriots feel our appreciation not only now, in times of emergency, but also before and after. Now, in the difficult situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, many have become uncertain about their future. Many of the elderly also feared that they would be the losers of this situation, that they might be the worst affected by the economic consequences of the coronal virus epidemic. That is why the government has now decided to return the 13th month pension that was taken back in 2009 gradually, in four steps. At the first stage 2021, i.e. early next year, pensioners will receive a week's pension in addition to the January pension. One more week in 2022, i.e. two weeks in total, three weeks in 2023, and in 2024 and every year thereafter, pensioners will receive a full 13th month pension in addition to their normal pension. The 13th month pension affects 2 million 560 thousand people directly, 2 million 560 thousand people will receive a 13th month pension. The budget for 2021 includes the necessary resources, which will amount to HUF 77 billion next year. [[15.00]] The 13th month pension is regulated at two levels: on the one hand, at the statutory level, as 13th month pension is granted to those who are entitled to it, or there will be a government decree in which the same benefit is granted to persons receiving other cash benefits, so that the 13th month pension and benefit are rebuilt in two parts. In the bill, the bill of which we are continuing to discuss, we are only organising benefits for those who are receiving pensions, this affects a total of 2 million 162 thousand people. These benefits are, for the sake of completeness, six different arrangements: the old-age pension, including those retired by the women with 40, this means a total of 2 million 45 thousand persons; widow's pensioners, which represents 59 thousand persons; 19 thousand parents' pensions; 57 thousand orphans; beneficiaries of accident benefits; and the old-age, incapacity, widow's allowance of the agricultural cooperative; and beneficiaries of the increased old-age, incapacity and widow's allowance of the members of the agricultural cooperative. The second is the group of government decrees issued under the original legislative powers, i.e. those who receive this allowance under a total of 21 different titles, the benefit referred to as the 13th month benefit, this means a total of 400 thousand persons, and for the sake of completeness I share these titles with you: such are pre-age benefits; service allowances; temporary mining annuities; invalidity benefits; rehabilitation benefits; accident benefits; health compensation for miners; disability allowance; personal benefits for the blind; invalidity benefits; benefits paid under the Government Decree on benefits paid by the Hungarian Creative Arts Public Foundation; public service benefits for mayors, benefits under the law on the legal status of civil servants and supplementary support for orphans under the law on the legal status of civil servants; supplementary invalidity allowance under the Law on the status of civil servants under the Act on the Status of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law Tny is subject to a decree of the Government in the context of measures restricting certain personal freedoms or in connection with convictions declared null and void. 62. the increase to be made in accordance with Article 4 of the Act; the allowance for the national post; the spouse's allowance; and the allowance for the spouse's income. Thus, 27 different items will receive the 13th month pension or 13th month's benefit in a total of 2 million 560 thousand pensions and the person receiving pension-like benefits. Even one clause included in the current bill: pensioners who receive this benefit for at least one day of the year preceding the year and for January of the year in question are entitled to this benefit. This is a practice well known to you, which is also stated in this law. The amount of the 13th month pension shall be equal to the sum of the pensions to be paid to the claimant for the month of January of the year in question or, in the case of beneficiaries of other benefits, the combined amount of these benefits or, during the three years of introduction, the proportional part thereof, provided that 13 months' pensions or benefits are paid after the benefit in question, but, as we have seen, this is in fact all items. For example, those who receive both old-age pensions and widow's pensions will receive the 13th month pension after both benefits, provided that they have already received both benefits in the previous year. If we also take into account the 3 percent inflation planned in the budget, in 2021 a person receiving an average pension, i.e. a pension of HUF 147 thousand, will receive a first instalment of the 13th monthly pension of nearly HUF 37 thousand, i.e. a week's pension on this item. In addition to his ordinary pension, this person with an average pension will receive a 3 percent increase in January, then receive the proportion of the 13th month pension, which is approximately HUF 37 thousand, and if economic performance allows, we will pay a pension premium next year, which we hope will be up to HUF 26 thousand based on an increase in GDP of 4.8 percent. What is more than the previous 13th month's pension is three different points: one is that it affects a wider circle, since it affects not only pension recipients, but also those who receive pension-like benefits, it has been on six different titles, and now it is on 21 additional items, so it affects a much wider circle, 400 thousand people more than the previous 13th month's pension. In addition to the 13th month pension, we have retained or are proposing to keep the pension premium, so these two are not a substitute, they are not an exclusion benefit, but, in addition to the 13th month pension, we also maintain the possibility of a pension premium. And it's also a difference, it's a surplus, it's a plus that there's no top ceiling for the 13th month pension, so everyone will benefit from this allowance to the extent that they're entitled to their pension. I trust that all of you will support the proposal to help pensioners and those who are receiving pension benefits again, which is why we have tabled this bill and I ask for your support in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-53	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Ms Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-04-54	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In its extraordinary announcement on 6 April 2020, the Prime Minister informed the country, the public that the 5th programme of the Economic Protection Action Plan is the family and pension protection programme, the main point of which is the retirement of the 13th month pension. This is what the bill before us, which we are discussing now, is about. From February 2021 we will gradually rebuild the 13th month pension, thus remedying the previous injustice. The measure concerns 2 million 560 000 beneficiaries of pensions and benefits to be raised in the same way as pensions. I have prepared a list of 27 support groups who receive the same increase, but after the Secretary of State has listed these, let me highlight one of these: by raising the old-age pension for the 13th month, we also include pensioners who are retired with a allowance of 40, pensioners who were not otherwise voted by the representatives of opposition parties, their fractions in 2010, when we created the possibility by law to retire women after 40 years of work, 40 years of service. The 13th monthly retirement plan will therefore be regulated at the statutory level, and will be resolved with the power of the law. In addition to the January pension, pensioners will receive an extra one week pension, as will the retirement of the elderly increase by an extra one week in the coming years. While the left took away a month's pension during a crisis, the civilian government returned this benefit during the crisis. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The corona virus epidemic has rejected the economies of nations worldwide, but the Hungarian government has nevertheless undertaken to rebuild this one-month pension. The return and restoration of this 13th month pension is also a great achievement in terms of the fact that this is not what we used to do before 2010 in socialist governments, and they were only able to take it away. But not only did they take away the 13th month pension, but they also reduced the purchasing value of pensions. Otherwise, despite the fact that some of our opposition fellow Members have come forward with proposals for amendments which have been tabled, even if they push in with them, they are not credible, all these amendments are not credible. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] My fellow Members, despite your smiles, have you taken away your 13th month's pension back in 2009? Yeah, when they could, they took it. [[Peter Ungár: Me? I didn't!]] [[15.10]] Did they reduce the purchasing value of pensions when they were on the government and could do so? Yes, they have reduced the purchasing value of pensions. I don't know, do you remember the deficit in 2010 that the socialist-liberal government handed over its pension fund? In fact, 3 billion HUF 357 million was lost in the cash register of which the state pays pensionforints for pensioners. So the amendment that we have seen here is not credible. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important that the Hungarian government at all times enjoy the trust of pensioners, especially for moral reasons, since the generation of pensioners, our parents and grandparents, they were the ones who brought the country back on its feet after the Second World War, and who did not let it be lost during the darkest communism. We must acknowledge, appreciate their efforts, not only in words, but also in actions. The chapter "Liberty and Responsibility" - Chapter XIX. The Fundamental Law of Hungary lays down that Hungary shall facilitate the provision of a living in old age by maintaining a single public pension system based on social solidarity and by allowing voluntary social institutions to operate. So it's the Fundamental Law that says it. Ladies and gentlemen, We reached an agreement with pensioners in 2010: as long as there is a national government in Hungary, the value of their pension remains a buyer. Over the past few years, we have proved that we have kept our word: we have not only maintained the value of the purchase of pensions, but also managed to increase it. Compared to 2010, pensions have increased by 38 percent and their real value has increased by about 10 percent. Pensions increased by 2.7 percent in 2019 and 2.8 percent in January 2020. Since November 16, pensioners have received more than HUF 273 billion in various other benefits. In the form of a pension premium, pensioners also benefit from economic success. They were first granted such benefits in November 2017 and then in 2018 for a total of HUF 23 billion and HUF 40 billion respectively. In November 2019 pensioners received an average of HUF 20,000 pension premium, worth HUF 52 billion. On Christmas 2016 and 2017 and on Easter 2018 the pensioners received the Elisabeth voucher. In September 2019, all pensioners received a refund of HUF 9,000. Within the framework of the Women's 40, which has already been mentioned, more than 270 thousand women could retire after 40 years of employment. Retirements can save a considerable amount of money through multiple reductions. Moreover, these measures were not supported by opposition parties. Since 2010, 260 thousand pensioners have been able to participate in the Erzsébet programme. Ladies and gentlemen, We ask you to support the bill before you, regardless of political affiliation, because by restoring the 13th month's pension, we can express our respect and appreciation to our elderly countrymen. We thank them for their decades of work as a basis for our current economy and society. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-04-55	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Balczó. Congressman, please.
u2020-06-04-56	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Let me begin by saying that I have been here as a representative of Jobbik since July, I have heard this debate constantly, that the representatives of the MSZP raise the question of the purchasing value of pensions, how much they have increased, how much support they need. I always hear the answer to that: you took away the 13th month pension in 2009, so don't say anything about that. The question they can no longer ask on the basis of the order is understandable, to ask whether they are honourable Fidesz-KDNP Members, if you condemn us so much for this, why they have not returned it so far. And now I hear from Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi that during the crisis, the MSZP took it, and in the time of the crisis, Fidesz-KDNP will return it. What has been returned during the crisis, honourable Member? Well, they didn't give anything back. Then let me tell you how I see the birth of this otherwise eligible proposal by Jobbik. The epidemic has had many tragic, sad and negative effects. First and foremost, human lives, in particular health damage, either directly due to the epidemic or because serious patients have been released from the hospital in such a way that adequate care was not available, unemployment and recovery of the economy will be a very big task. But weirdly, even in this evil, there was sometimes something positive, such as working at home. It turns out that teleworking is an existing, applicable option, and I think that, once the epidemic is over, the companies will apply it, and that is a very positive thing. Many have discovered that you can shop online, it's a practical thing. They weren't forced to do it until now, so they didn't live with it. Digital education has been solved quite well by teachers and teachers in some way, despite the fact that the government program for this has not been able to solve the task in a way that works in real life. And let me tell you one more thing, the language exam was released during this period. As far as I know, about 90,000 people were affected by the stuck language exam. We have to ask ourselves what this had to do with the epidemic. It was only appropriate to introduce a popular measure because, in itself, there may have been people who were taking language exams during this period, and these language examiners were not given the opportunity to do so because of the virus, I suppose, this is not 90,000 people who prepared for this at this exact time. And if we look at the economic defense action plan announced by the government, Viktor Orbán, it was a certain message for the various sections of society. It is true that it is not what many of us expected to see, the type of employment protection subsidies, the amounts we have seen in the surrounding countries, but in any case, if there is a tax waiver, if there is a change in credit repayment and another item of the Prime Minister's list of who gets what. And at the end of the day, he's like, "What's the pensioner gonna get?" The answer is nothing. We can't give anything to the pensioners this year, we can't give them in connection with the epidemic. Well, what do we do? Well, let's make it a 13th month pension. But, Congresswoman Selmeczi, you have not returned the 13th month's pension! You have made a promise, and we hope that it will be fulfilled. This year, in the critical year, they didn't even get the first week of this. Yes, a promise has been made. And the fact that you will eventually return it in 2024 is a perfectly understandable optimism on your part, but in politics, there is much that can happen, and it is possible that you will not be able to do so. I trust that any government will be able to achieve this in the end, but the claim that you have taken it, and we have now returned it, is not valid because it has not yet been returned. This year, pensioners can't enjoy any of this. I'm not the protector of the MSZP, God forbid, but if you see that there's such a contradiction, then I need the sense of justice to tell me that. And by the way, let us add that next year there will be about 2 percent rise, and of course this is more than nothing, and it is right. [[15.20]] So in short, I would like to say that I do not want to open this debate wide and talk about what the concept of pensions in general is, which I think should be followed, but I think that at a time of government that has been able to soar in the economy in recent years, and everyone envys us and how wages grow, perhaps in the interests of pensioners it could have gone beyond the preservation of pensions. I think that if there is a certain social cohesion and solidarity, then the significant increase, although unfortunately even between the four Visegráds, in the back of wages, in some way pensioners should also benefit from the increase. Personally, I would consider it a right line that preservation exists for all pensions, and if the economy allows for a greater increase in pensions, it should be differentiated so that small pensioners receive more and, in proportion to the pension that has a high pension, less. This is, of course, not entirely possible, because the pension is not a state favor, it is an achievement in a given life. So that's what I mean by the better concept. Yes, we agree that preservation is an important thing, and in the case of the proper performance of the economy, a differentiated pension increase is needed, which in some way brings together a common denominator and solidarity between working and already retired groups of society. Of course, we will support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-04-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that the Jobbik Group supports this proposal, and I am really happy for it. I regret that in part of Mr Balczó's speech he was an unwelcome or accepted proponent of DK and MSZP and defended them. [[Zoltán Balczó: There is justice! The voice of truth!]] And here I see from the yellings, when Mrs Selmeczi also spoke, that you, ladies and gentlemen, want to change the past and wipe out the past. I understand you're not proud of what you did before 2010, but don't try to deny that this happened. Don't try to erase it. People remember exactly what you did before 2010, and you always want to deny it. It happened. Let's see what happened. During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments the real value of pensions has been steadily reduced, while the purchasing power of pensions has decreased by 10 percent between 2005 and 2010, also in the period when Lajos Korózs was the State Secretary responsible for this area. [[Lajos Korózs: A year! Year of crisis!]] The purchasing power of pensions decreased by ten percent. One month's pension, my honourable fellow Member, has been reduced by that. Socialist-liberal governments only needed the votes of pensioners, but they didn't care about them, they didn't preserve the value of pensions, and they left our elderly countrymen to poverty. Then, in 2009, a month's pension was taken away and a debt of HUF 357 billion was accumulated in the Pension Insurance Fund by 2010. For 2010! Ladies and gentlemen, If you were to remain in government in 2010, we would not be talking about a 13th month pension here, we would not be talking about preserving the purchasing power of pensions here, but the state would not have been able to pay a pension by 2015. If your irresponsible economic policy and pension policy had been pursued in 2010, the pension fund would have been permanently empty in 2015 and you would not have been able to pay pensions and would have left our elderly countrymen on the side of the road, who, during communism, survived that miserable dictatorial period with hard work, and therefore deserve to receive this pension. You would have deprived them of that. On the other hand, the national civil government made an alliance with pensioners in 2010 and undertook, not only at word level, to preserve the value of pensions and to value Hungarian pensioners. Of course, we have respected this commitment, as we have maintained the purchasing power of pensions: pensions have increased by 38 percent compared to 2010 and the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10.3 percent. So not only have we managed to keep our commitment, but we have also managed to increase the value of pensions in substance. When the economic situation made it possible, the national government supported the elderly on several occasions with one-off benefits. [[Bence of Turdai: At Choice!]] In addition to their pensions, pensioners from November 2016 onwards were not elected in 2016, honourable Member, so listen. , from November 2016, they received a pension premium of HUF 273.5 billion and received several vouchers and vouchers of Elisabeth. In addition, the Government has announced a steady increase in pension during the Coronary Virus pandemic, as Prime Minister, within the framework of the programme of the economic protection action plan announced on 6 April 2020 - family and pension protection - announced that we will rebuild the 13th month pension in four instalments. Here I would like to respond to my fellow Member Balczó, who also mentioned language examination amnesty. I think we also said that this is a labour market step, and it also helps the economy, because those unfulfilled places can be filled in the future, it will be easier to fill with this step, with this step in the action plan, that the nearly 90,000 people he spoke about received language examination amnesty. But of course, let's not leave without saying that the same Jobbik, who says so, demanded the abolition of graduation not so long ago here in Parliament and in the press. At the first stage, i.e. in addition to the January pension in early 2021, pensioners will receive a one-week pension, two weeks in 2022, three weeks in 2023 and 2024 and every year thereafter, full monthly pensions will be paid to pensioners. The measure concerns all beneficiaries in the same way as some 2.6 million pensions and pensions, which are already covered by Secretary of State Katalin Novák. In addition to restoring the 13th month pension, pensioners will continue to receive an increase in inflation, and in the event of a good performance of the economy, which, I think, is in the common interest of all of us, will also receive a pension premium. It was possible to pay the pension premium for the first time in 2017, then in 18 and 19 for an increasing annual amount. The maximum amount of the pension premium and the one-off allowance increases year by year, in 2017 it was 12 thousand forints, in 2018 it was 18 thousand forints, and in 2019 it was 22 thousand forints. With average pensions in 2021, a pensioner is worth about HUF 110-120 thousand better than this year, if the performance of the economy allows. This additional amount will increase from year to year in the years after 2021 at least until 2024. So pensioners can expect a significant increase during national governance even during a global crisis. We have seen two forms of crisis management in recent years: you have taken me away, squeezed me in times of crisis; and we, as we have made an alliance with pensioners, are raising pensions. There is also a difference that when you first introduced and then terminated this care, because it did not last that long in your system, the pensioners received it in two installments each year. We undertake that once a year, in one detail, in January, this will arrive for the pensioners. It is also important, and she also mentioned that there is no upper limit to this, and I think that this is also following the policy that we have always said: all Hungarian citizens are equal, and we do not want to discriminate against anyone. Of course, the KDNP fraction supports the bill on the recovery of the 13th month pension. I hope that you will support it. I think that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament and the government have just given you an opportunity to repair: what you have taken, you can now give back with your votes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-04-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-60	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, How's the good 13th month's pension? Well, first of all it's fair, second of all it's fair, third of all it's the same amount for all pensioners. I could finish my speech here, but I still have to add a few unscrupulous sentences. It's fair, if it's the same amount for everyone, according to my standards. It's fair, because every pensioner and pensioner gets it, and they get it. And if possible now. 'Cause now the pensioner's in trouble. [[15.30]] I think there is no need to describe how food prices have flown in recent months, not only during the crisis, but even before the outbreak of the Crown Virus. Let's go over my motion. I begin by saying that if it is fair, fair and everyone is entitled to the same amount, then there is no need to be a head counter, and now the average amount of pension and pension benefits is about 140 thousand forints. It is true that the secretary of state said another amount along with the planned increase next year; it is noted that the amount of old-age pensions is usually higher than the average amount of all pension beneficiaries. If this 140 thousand forints were accepted, it would be practical that if it was introduced in four years, the first week's allowance would be 35 thousand forints for everyone. I stress: everyone. It has been mentioned that there is no upper ceiling for the bill you have tabled. I understand that, and I even understand that it fits into your values; it doesn't fit into mine. Why do I say that? Firstly, because the proposal that I make to give all pensioners a lump sum strengthens not only the principle of justice, but also the principles of equality and solidarity, which are typically left-wing values. The other is that two thirds of pensioners are better off than your offer. I stress that two thirds of pensioners are better off with the offer I'm making than the one they brought to the National Assembly. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But we are talking about our proposal!]] Yeah, it's your proposal, so it's about almost two thirds of pensioners not getting the average. Here, on several occasions, although such a bill was not before the National Assembly, I drew attention to the fact that it is with this average, I am not saying that it is manipulation, but the reference to it has been bitten off in recent years. But why is that? In the context of the 2012 restructuring, I considered the abolition of the contribution ceiling among the measures to be one of the main crimes in the context of the reform of the pension law. The abolition of the contribution ceiling has made it possible that there are now millions and even millions of HUF pensions in Hungary. I know that's what they always refer to: there are so few of them that you can't even see it on the street. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not true.]] But it is not so, but it is so, and there are some in Parliament who are in good friendship with numbers, I say to those who, in relation to the abolition of the contribution ceiling, have increased the high pensions, this draws up the mathematical centre, while if we look at the fact that we do not take into account the average, but, for example, the median pension, and if we look at the fact that there are nearly 2 million 40 thousand old-age pensioners because it is easier to count, we will put the 2 million old-age pensioners in a row, and we will look at the middle, not the average, but the middle because of the lineup, so there are as many people below it is, this median figure, we will get a significantly smaller number there. According to last year's statistics, where the average old-age pension was roughly one hundred and thirty thousand forints, my dear friends, there was a median pension of 107 thousand. From now on, I think that the argument that I have just told this House is in place to give everyone a lump sum; if they already love this average, then the average pension should be paid to everyone in one amount, because it is better for almost two thirds of pensioners. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: More help.]] And more help. Our other suggestion was, if possible, now. We will also submit an amendment to this, which may already have been received by Parliament's administration, so that, if possible, the first week can be paid on 1 July of this year. I don't think there's any IT barrier to that. I will not comment on the other amendments, but I must note a few things. I have just mentioned to you that if you look at what the proposed bill means and what the proposal I made means in its proportions, you should take a pension with a pension of HUF 50,000, buy a pension with a pension of HUF 140,000 if you like, an average pensioner, and buy a pension with a monthly pension of HUF 2 million. For the record, there are people in Hungary who have a monthly pension of more than HUF 2 million. Please, from the start, anyone who has a pension of HUF 50,000 will receive HUF 12,500 in the first week, week 53; who has an average pension of HUF 140,000 will receive HUF 35,000, I have just suggested that everyone should receive this; and he will receive HUF 500,000 with a pension of HUF 2 million. You know, this rate distortion, right? With a pension of HUF 50,000 and a pension of HUF 2 million, the difference is 40 times the difference! And it's not a proposal that prefers someone who lives in a tougher line, who's in trouble or who's in bigger trouble, but who gives more, much more, who has something to chop into milk anyway. But if you compare the average pension of 140 thousand forints with the pension of 2 million forints, the difference is nearly 15 times the difference. And that's why I said that my values don't fit in, because I'm pro-equality, I'm a solidarityist! It is very difficult to stop what Congressman Nacsa has said, but let us make something clear when I have a few more minutes. I myself was once one of the initiators of the 13th month pension. Then there were no mountains of money like they are now. [[Nacsa Lawrence Laughing: Like now!]] They weren't... It wasn't your merit, I just note to you that at the time, in the first seven-year term, I know that there was a European Union resource worth 2600 billion forints in Hungary, in the next seven years, which was already under your control, 16 000 billion. There's a significant difference between the two. Don't forget that after 12:00 you took 3 million young people's $3,000 billion savings! [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] This is available to you from private pension savings. Don't forget that every pension below the age limit, every pension below the age limit, has been abolished. We are now seeing what a problem it is that there is no flexible retirement in the middle of the crisis. There are more than 400 thousand unemployed now, but there are many people who have 40-45 years of working time, but they will not be able to retire, because today they can only retire at the age limit. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Don't forget that you abolished disability and accident disability pensions during your two eight-year-old government, I calculated that you saved 480 billion forints on the disabled! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: No, it's not true!]] I said 480 billion forints only on the disabled! When the service allowance was changed and the service pension was abolished, it was true, Mr Pósán, that the service allowance was taxed. Let us fix it again, that the law states that the pension increase, but with personal income tax, raised at the same time, became the payment for the service. I didn't have a dog, I didn't have a cat, but they were the ones who raised their voices, even Sándor Pintér was shaking. There were 43,000 service personnel here at Kossuth Square. And then I'll move on. The inflation-following pension raising technique, which they are so proud of, is a scam of the century. You know that, don't you? It's a con of the century! The technique of the inflation-following pension increase means that everyone who is forced to live on 70-80-90 thousand forints or less, from some kind of pension-like care, your government guarantees that last year or this year you have lived miserablely with little money and guarantees that you will live miserablely with little money again next year, because it will only increase your pension by as much as the rate of inflation. [[15.40]] Now you can see that when food prices have gone so far, there are products that have increased by 30-40 percent over a year, I am talking about basic food, and I am asking you nicely, it is obvious that this inflation-following attitude is making hundreds of thousands of pensioners miserable. In addition, because it is increased by as much as I said, the extent of the deterioration, but not by the rate of the pensioner's inflation basket, but by society as a whole, and we also know from the sociological methodology that the lower the income of a person, the more the daily subsistence should be spent on his income. From now on, these people will suffer twice the policy you represent. And as I said, that's the main sin, the abolition of the ceiling. If there is another government in Hungary, and there will be, because there is no power anywhere in history that lasts forever, and there is a new pension law to be done, the very first measure should be to restore the ceiling. It is unacceptable that there are such differences between pensioners and pensioners, because when someone retired, it is his status, and the other, and the third, the same thing: he is retired, and in the shop he has to pay for everything in the same way. The person who has a widow's pension of HUF 50,000 and the person who has a pension of over HUF 2 million. That's not the question from now on. It's a matter of principle. The question is not how many people have more than 2 million forints. Today, it is unfair in Hungary that two thirds of pensioners do not have an average pension, and others have a million-dollar pension, and it is unfair that these people will double their pension by introducing a 13-month pension. I consider this unacceptable, and I will support the proposal with my vote. Make it a 13th month pension. It's not over yet, Mr. President, with respect. So let me get this straight. We introduced it, I think we paid it for six or seven years, even in the middle of the crisis we were able to pay for the first two weeks, which was swept away by the crisis after 2010 by the Fidesz government. It's the truth. Once there is another proposal, I will also show how much pensions have grown in real terms during the previous social-liberal government, and now I do not have time for that. About 27 percent increase in real-life pensions [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Minus 10!]] I'm telling you, around 27. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Minus 10!]] That's not true. It was the only year when the 13th month pension was discharged. Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-04-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that the unsuspecting readers of the bill before us, or even those who are pro-government representatives, might think that the government's conscience has finally spoken, or that we may have managed to find the way to the door of Schmitt Paul, since his flyer is still being kept by my mother, who in 2010 promised that you would not only give back the 13th month's pension if you came to government, but also the 14th month. However, that is not what this is really about. We see that what lies before us is nothing more than the usual propaganda with some reality content on its neck, which basically doesn't involve a 13th month pension. Now, this measure should put your hands on your hearts, it's a hoax, because with this step, the government will not remedy the current problems, and even with the schedule of the 13th month pension bill and the sums, it's like telling a drowning man in the middle of a rolling river to swim out, and if you come out, we'll give you a quarter of the lifeline, and in four years you'll get the whole thing, if you don't make it, then you'll end up like this. We know very well that, compared to the magic of the government before us, submitted verbally or whatever it may be called, pensioners would need immediate help, but this has already been said from the speakers before me. The tangible result would be that pensioners would already receive at least the first half of the 13th month pension promised, these days, these weeks or months. What was it that my fellow members of the government were talking about? In principle, wages have increased in real terms since 2016 at around 10-15 percent. On the other hand, pensions, as you say, show a total increase of 2-3 percent, which therefore does not follow inflation, even on the basis of actual and not government-based cosmetics or, let us say, lied data. The effects of the economic downturn and price increase due to the epidemic are added, so we can safely say that the purchasing power of pensions has decreased significantly in recent years. That's why a lot of pensioners are forced to go back to work after a life they've been working on, which you've been talking about so nicely, risking their health to save their families who just lost their jobs. We can safely say that with a real and fair pension increase, all these problems could be solved and solved. That's not what you chose, that's not what you're doing. And look at the numbers. In January 2019 there were more than 2 million 150,000 pensioners in our country, and of course this has been said, we know a lot of pensioners, even around us, and it is obviously a coincidence, who are largely linked to the government, Fidesz or directly to the Prime Minister, who have a pension of millions or even millions. As you may know, a pensioner who regularly receives billions of dividends from his state-funded income in the stone mine, and I personally know a retired educator who, at the age of 80 or a few years, apparently buys 300 million pig farms, billion-dollar agricultural companies, and spends on luxury BMWs and engines from the pension of the crammed kindergarten teacher. Of course, this is the rarer case among pensioners. The average is that these 2 million 150,000 pensioners, whom we knew in January 2019, represent only a HUF 130,000 average based on their salary. Well, in addition to the few thousand NER pledges with a million-dollar paternity, they are real and misguided losers of the current system. While you, the governing parties, like to talk about the fact that the 13th month pension was taken by the Gyurcsány government, we have heard this now, although in this short sentence you, my fellow members of the government, have told at least two lies. Because of the global economic crisis at the time, it was the Bajnai government, and this is very important now, please listen, try to understand, who temporarily suspended the payment, temporarily. Somehow, the politicians of the current government forget that Fidesz in the 2010 elections, as I have just said, flooded the country with millions of leaflets, with the picture of Paul Schmitt, who promised not only the 13th month pension, but also the 14th month pension, but now we know that this is exactly the same as the government's promises that have been made, and that is nothing more than an orbital lie. What increases even more the criminal record of the ruling parties for war and peace is that they are deeply silent about the elimination of the so-called mixed indexation in 2010 in silence after the elections. Somehow, it's not mentioned. And, then, allow me, because I still have time to talk about the mixed indexation, because that was to throw out the principle of pension calculation that provided an opportunity to ensure that the financial opportunities and quality of life of people of active age and those who are already retired do not become disastrously separated. [[15.50]] Instead of the mixed indexation, you promised to preserve the purchasing value of pensions, which, in view of the passwords, could only mean what my colleague, Mr Korózs, has already said that if that had been the case, pensioners who did not live well in 2010 would have achieved a maximum standard of living in 2010. But we know very well that it didn't actually become true. And in addition to all this much-spoken preservation of consumer value, calculated on the basis of the KSH inflation index, in fact, there is no thank-you relationship with the retired consumer basket, and in addition, there are many times afterwards we can marvel at it even from where I came from, whether the numbers of KSH are wrong at the end of the year, or the government is tricky at changing the index regularly. The difference between the KSH and the real pension index is striking, since the average pensioner, in which neither the father of Mihály Orbán nor Lajos Kósa's mother fit nor should be included, buys durable consumer goods, BMWs or other luxury vehicles in the rarest case, but spends much more on housing, energy, basic food, medicine and medical care. While, according to KSH, consumer prices increased by 2.4 percent at the beginning of 2020, I do not know how much they market, potatoes increased by approximately 83 percent, vegetables by 40 percent, onions by 78 percent and bread prices by almost 7 percent. This line could be continued otherwise, but let's also talk about a few sentences about health benefits, because we know very well that there are a lot of diagnostic screening tests that are essential for pensioners, which are now unavailable in the state care system, must be paid for, and our pensioners will pay this amount in agonizing way, if they know. And it's enough to go into stores or the market, not even to be retired, to notice that the distance between KSH's cosmeticsd inflation figures and real inflation figures is a light-years away, but as a pensioner, this difference is even more yelling. I still have a little bit of time, let me quote a very short paragraph from the text of the HCSO in 2019:. As it is known, the poorer a household is, the greater its consumption in its structure is spent on food and housing, and the less freely available income is available after they are settled. Poor households are subject to a stronger price change effect. In Hungary, price developments behind inflation put poorer social groups in a worse position. You are very well aware that the average pensioner falls into this category. I have already talked about how you tricked Viktor Orbán's government into deceiving the pensioners since 2010, but let's see how much we have now. Between 2014 and 2019, according to government figures, wages have increased by 55 percent on average, but the nominal value of pensions has increased by 12.05 percent in total; this, of course, means that the value of purchases has been steadily reduced. If the mixed indexation method abolished by the Orbán course was maintained, so if it had survived, the pension increase would have been 33.5 per cent. 33.5 percent! This is 21.5 percent higher than the currently known 12.05 percent, i.e. the average pension rate in 2019 should be around 155 thousand forints per month instead of the 130 thousand forints average. This represents an annual difference of HUF 300,000 compared to the current average, with pro-government representatives. This is the real difference between the mixed indexation and the present situation. But let's keep going. If we take Fidesz's promise seriously and why not take it, because you are always telling the truth, the 13th and 14th monthly pension promised in 2010 by the nation's best president, Pál Schmitt, could amount to HUF 155 thousand twice, a total of HUF 310 thousand, this could mean an extra HUF 600 thousand a year for an average pensioner, but it doesn't mean that the government, the governing parties, Pál Schmitt and Mihály Orbán cheated pensioners. If someone took me away from the pensioners, it was you. Now, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have lost their jobs and lost their jobs in the last two months, when these people are not only able to help their retired parents, but also themselves, when they need every penny, because of increasing inflation and avoiding the fear of unemployment, Hungarian pensioners receive empty promises from you again instead of real help: instead of the 13th month pension, perhaps in January 2021 a 53rd week pension. Allow me to quote you at the end of my speech, although I know you will not be happy with this, because you have also done so, from the Democratic Coalition's programme, namely the two-pillar pension system, an appreciation for pensioners:. A significant part of the additional income, some HUF 150-180 billion a year, is used to implement our pension scheme, to introduce the basic pension and pension extra. The safe functioning and long-term financing of the old-age pension system are of fundamental social interest. I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this programme, from which I have just quoted, will be implemented after the fall of the Orbán government, but at the latest in 2022. And yes, you have talked about the opposition's submission of amendments. The Democratic Coalition has done this, and there comes a moment of truth when you have to stand in front of the pensioners and tell them that you really want to help them or not. The point of our amendment is that it is a very short amendment that, not in four years, not in weekly breakdown, but in January 2021, the entire monthly pension should be given to our pensioners, the people who built this country, this country that they are now carrying home from brick to brick. I would like to ask you to support this amendment. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-04-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, there is a significant positive in this bill. This significant positive is that we will spend 77 billion in public money to give this to pensioners, this is a good thing, and it ended about here, which we regard as positive, but because it is the budgetary basis of this law, it is a good thing in itself. Before I get to the specifics that many people here have already told me, I would like to recall one thing. It is true that the 13th month pension has been such a political saying contest in recent years. The first campaign I followed from my age was the 2006 campaign, I remember the promise of the 14th month pension and... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] In 2006, I said 2006. So I remember this, and I remember just to tell you, for the sake of historical loyalty, that there were some parties that were throwing out cheques in a singles constituency campaign for pensioners between the two rounds. I think it is unworthy that such an important thing as the pension system, and such an important thing as the generation that my fellow Member has said, which has worked in the most difficult period in Hungarian history, has raised children, how much and what he receives, such an important question has become such an incomprehensible party political battle over the past period. At the same time, and it is also important to say that those who consider the 13th month pension and political promises to be populism are wrong, because if the money is in the right place, those Hungarian pensioners, because these people worked 40-50 years, paid social security, paid taxes, and contributed to the fact that we could all be here. The fact is that the 77 billion forints that the government is about to spend could be found in other places, and in the case of pensioners and elderly Hungarians, there are many things that could be spent on which, although it would be harder to communicate, it would be more difficult for my fellow Member to read a Fidesz communication in this regard as a speaker's speech, but it would still be an important place. [[16.00]] Let's take a few facts. The first fact is that there are currently 600,000 Hungarians with fewer pensions than 100 thousand forints. This tells us everything about what you've been talking about before, about the inequality between pensioners. There are, of course, very many nuances between the fully equals and the current dissipating scissors, and in these very many nuances, we have to move towards a more equal pension. It is also a fact that the minimum pension for 10 years is 28 500 forints. They always say it's just a calculation basis, and we shouldn't say it separately, because it's just a calculation basis, but the nature of the calculation basis is that a number comes out of it at the end. If they increased the 28 500, the number that comes out at the end of the calculation would increase significantly to those who earn the least. The fact is, and I will come back to this, that one third of Hungarian citizens over 65 years of age, this is 600,000 people, who need constant help for various health or other reasons, are constantly in need of care, and they have not been dealt with by the government for almost ten years. It is also very important, what many here have said, that this 13th month pension, as it is judged, is tailored to everyone's own pension, not to the average pension, is a serious problem. This is why we will support the MSZP's amendment proposal, because it is really not fair for a pension of HUF 500,000 to pay 125 thousand forints, while for a pension of 100,000 it is 25 thousand forints. If this were to be established in a single amount, it would be much better than the current system. I ask you to consider this, but we are in the debate of a law, so now, in my optimism from my youth, I pretend to consider amendments sometimes. The fact is that the increase in the minimum pension, although it would require significant budgetary resources in the first years, would not actually be a great burden for public finances, since it would be given to people who would then invest it back in public finances, since they would buy more food, because they would buy something else for their granddaughter, so I would spend it on things that would leave it in Hungary. I very much doubt that a person who would be positively affected by double the minimum pension base would be able to withdraw this money into Cypriot offshore accounts. So this would remain in the Hungarian economy, so it could continue to spin the Hungarian economy. The fact is, there is also a need for a pension increase, which is also said by the government. Here there are various production reporting problems after what they say here, but we believe that this pension increase should be done in a band. I mean, and there have been a lot of words about this, we really need to make the pension a follower of inflation, so that it applies to the basket that pensions use, not to the general one, but my fellow Member has explained this. I would now like to address another topic concerning the elderly in Hungary. The fact is that the elderly in Hungary, due to the peculiarities of man's age and the characteristics of an ageing society, spend more and more years in need of help, because although it is increasingly fortunate that this is the case for life expectancy, the number of years that needs care is increasing for all of us. That's how it is now under the Fidesz government, and whatever happens in the next 30 elections, that's how it stays. I don't see government policy doing this. If government policy were to deal with this and that this would affect more and more people in Hungary, it would not be 38 and 58 thousand forints for those who care for our elderly countrymen at home for 0-24 hours. We all know, or can imagine, if we do not say what a stressful and beautiful job it is to care for someone's elderly relatives living with dementia at home, for example, this would not be worth HUF 38 or HUF 58 thousand, but a minimum minimum wage. It is also true that you have not actually invested money in elderly care in recent years. In fact, the waiting list has remained unchanged over the last seven years, 2.2 years on average, that is what the EMMI has said to a written question, because I do not know how much she knows, but I am very much interested in their parliamentary department, so they have said this to a written question, and it is simply a huge problem in most families, how it can properly place an older relative when these elderly people are already in need of professional care. This is a huge problem in most of Hungary. The fact is that people who work in elderly care, social workers, and their wages are humiliatingly low, are almost the worst paid employees in the state. They are also the ones who have been under a particular strain in the fight against the Crown Virus, and they are the ones who have not even received the one-time wage supplement of HUF 500 000, which the government has rightly awarded to healthcare workers. Congressman Nacsa, don't make faces. We've tried this a few times, and they can't make a sane argument that, after a party policy campaign was conducted for three months about what is happening in a nursing home in Budapest, why not give the elderly workers a one-off HUF 500,000 supplement in the same way as health care workers. [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] Don't yell at my fellow Congressman Pósan. These people have done extra work, and they're at risk for the epidemic. So, obviously, they deserve this. In the context of elderly care, it is also very important to support this in a temporary way, which means, for example, home assistance. Many of our elderly countrymen also require this, and more and more will. And the people who are currently working in domestic assistance are also very underpaid. And if they take the resources away from the municipalities and don't give them away, it means that even less resources will be added to extra services that are very important, such as medicine or shopping for the elderly and so on. All in all, I can say that although this was not necessarily primarily related to the law, it is very important to see from two sides what Parliament can do for people who worked 40-50 years, raised children, but paid taxes and social security. One is, as appropriate, to give them the maximum possible pension or pension-like contribution compared to economic performance, and the other: if they wish to use public services by their age, then these services should be provided to them at the highest possible level, this should be done by the state in the home of one of their relatives, in this case, in a state institution. An ideological difference between the government and me, or I think it's between us, I'd like to draw attention in the end. They always say that when I tried to understand why they were doing the right thing to raise the care fee for children, and they didn't raise this for the elderly in nursing homes, that the family had worked out the care of older people in the past, and it was a family task. We can simply and continue to argue that this is a good thing or that the structure of family and work has not changed since that time. There are many mosaic families, there are many people, and there is no will or decision in this, who are physically unable to take care of their children or their siblings or their spouses at home, and these people, again, have paid 40 to 50 years into the state register. So they are entitled to public service, and this should be part of the social network that a government that thinks of itself as a Christian Democrat supports. So overall, in addition to saying once again that it is positive that this 77 billion is intended to be spent on pensioners, I would like to ask you so much that, in addition to spending this 77 billion, if possible, even more equally, to address the state service that Hungarian pensioners receive outside the specific pension. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue is Congressman Bence Tordai, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-04-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Here we are discussing the bill named after the 13th month pension, which would indeed be more accurate to refer to as the 53rd week pension proposal. But more importantly, all of this has now been brought to the House with the justification that it would help the elderly in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. [[16.10]] So, pensioners who are now facing serious difficulties, either because of running prices or additional costs due to quarantine or curfew, will receive a few thousand forints higher pension next year. That's what the Fidesz proposal is about. It is right, of course, to give more money to pensioners and to ensure a higher pension increase, but let us see where this proposal comes from. Fidesz presented this proposal, which was the first important step in its governance for pensioners, by rewriting the rules for raising pensions, which took away a month's pension from older people in ten years. So, technically, it should be not about the 13th month's pension, but about the 12th month's pension being reinstated. Today, the elderly get 11 months' pensions. If the pension system had continued as it was in 2010, everyone would have been a full month ahead of our elderly fellow citizens. The Fidesz has now submitted this proposal that has taken or at least tightened the early retirement, early retirement, service and disability pensions from the most vulnerable people and those who have sacrificed most of their health, their lives, and have taken tens and hundreds of billions each year, as my colleague Lajos Korózs said, only the Fidesz government has saved 480,000 million forints on disabled pensioners. The Fidesz is now presenting this proposal, which has not increased the retirement pension minimum for ten years, which remains at a shameful level of HUF 28,500, and the Fidesz government is presenting the proposal, which plans to increase the equity pension to a total of HUF 800 million in the budget, which allows for an average of HUF 3-4 thousand pension raising equity decisions, which is again shameful and humiliating. The Fidesz government is now presenting this proposal, which leaves our 600,000 elderly countrymen undeservingly low pensions, so there are those who receive less than 100 thousand forints per month, which, as we know, is just scratching the minimum cost of living. Half a million pensioners are practically receiving an income below the minimum living level from the state, which is also the glory of the Fidesz government. At the same time, they managed to achieve that in the 2010s millions of pension payments started to come in, and now there are dozens of people, obviously not those elderly people who are otherwise deprived or unable to raise a financial reserve, who can take several million forints a month from the common register, tens of millions forints a year. An infinitely unfair system, never before in Hungary! And what they have achieved is that in the elderly society, social differences are more severe than those of active age. There is more than a hundred-fold difference between the lowest and the highest pensions. How is it possible for the Hungarian state that one elderly person is worth more than a hundred times as much forints as the other? That's pretty amazing. This must be stopped immediately, and this is demanded by pensioners' organisations first and loudest. But the big numbers also expose themselves. If you go to Eurostat, you see that the Hungarian state spends 6.7 percent of GDP per year on elderly care and the EU's 27 average is 10.4 percent. More than 55 percent higher, more than 1.5 times the EU average in proportion to GDP, which is spent on the financial benefits of senior citizens than the Fidesz government intended for this purpose. This is an annual difference of HUF 1800 billion. So Hungarian pensions could be 1.5 times the size of the total national product for the elderly as the other EU countries. And then you'll be proud of yourselves. And then they think that the pensioners will applaud when they receive that few thousand forints extra raise. You think pensioners are stupid, you think you can buy your 2022 vote with a 10,000-forint Erzsébet voucher and this one-week extra pension. I have bad news: Hungarian pensioners are much smarter than that, they follow what is happening in this country, and they see what is in their wallets, and this is not in the context of Fidesz propaganda. The Hungarian pension system should be put on a completely different path. The insensitive and inhumanistic system that Fidesz has built is for trash. What opposition parties are proposing is to establish a more equitable, fairer pension system and provide security to all elderly people. There are obviously differences within this. The Dialogue's proposal is to transform the pension system and to have a basic pension that covers everyone's basic livelihood in old age. This would obviously be an equal amount to the basic income, and this amount should cover the minimum amount of living. This is nearly HUF 100,000 for a one-man household in Hungary, and if you say that this is not possible, then I have bad news: we have been submitting to the budget for years the amendments that show that we have the funds for this, but Eurostat figures show that we have plenty of funding for this. It is a matter of political decision, political will, of what we spend it on, that under the heading of economic operation and economic development, Lőrinc Mészáros himself will put the money in his pocket, or, say, give it to our elderly fellow citizens who work their whole lives, as they deserve. Just to show that we are not talking in the air, when we said that during the crisis, we needed a basic income for crisis management, which will guarantee everyone, pensioners and active age, that there should not be less than HUF 100,000 per month in their account, of course, but a dialogue mayor in District I, Márta V. Naszályi has accomplished this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: No, he didn't.]] And there, hundreds of older people will receive a supplement every month, so that their shamefully low pension can reach 100 thousand forints. Elderly citizens who are so lucky to have chosen a dialogue mayor and would otherwise receive a pension of 60-70-80 thousand forints will now be able to manage 100 thousand forints of income in these months. It doesn't matter. [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] This is real, you don't have to wake up from this. So that's what you see in your account. You can laugh at my fellow Members, you may be the misery of others, the fact that you have to come out of 60,000 forints by the end of the month may be ridiculous... [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] Exactly, I tell you the truth: there are 600,000 people in Hungary today, who will receive a pension of less than HUF 100,000 for their old age. [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I am telling you exactly the truth about Márta V. Naszályi: the income of all those in District I who do not receive this level of income is added up to HUF 100,000. This would be the minimum that not only the lucky municipalities and not only the progressive leaders, but also the Hungarian state should ensure to all old people. This is where the negotiating fund begins, and I think that we will be able to convince each other of the opposition parties with the members of the new government, which will stand up after 2022, and with civil society organisations, especially the Retired Parliament, who have been conducting the discussions on the elderly with very serious work, for years, who have delivered opinions, wills and needs to hundreds of thousands of elderly people through county organisations, and bring them to political decision-makers, but it seems to be in vain in the case of government parties. However, each opposition party has openness and goodwill to listen to, discuss, and bring to Parliament the best possible common solutions when this will make sense, when the majority of this policy will be not only in society, but also here in the parliamentary horseshoe. So in this hope, I can promise our senior countrymen, Hungarian pensioners, that there will be an even better world, and that there will be no need to suck up to the Fidesz's ludicrous communication trick. Take a look at what has happened to them in the last ten years and act accordingly and vote in the 2022 election. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible for the first independent Member to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[16.20]]
u2020-06-04-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is T/10741. The proposal concerns the Fidesz government's attempt to move our retired countrymen to vote on them by 2022, until the elections, in whom they are currently unsure. I find it difficult to imagine, by the way, that retirement society would be moved by this, especially because it is the smallest or the smallest proportion pensioners may sound very strange to you now, a total of 1.5 million pensioners; one and a half million pensioners' pensions are less than 200 thousand forints. The number of pensioners now ranges from around 2.3 to 2.4 million, but the fact is that this is a large part of the pensioners whom I will present with figures, whose standard of living will unfortunately not increase to such a large extent, especially in the light of the fact that inflation is not the point, but the consumer price index that pensioners feel when they go shopping and buying basic food, all kinds of goods and services that are necessary for the household. I have spoken more than once in this Parliament about the fact that if we look at who is the biggest taxpayer compared to their own performance, then we have to say that the pensioner society, given that they have to pay the world's largest VAT for each purchase, and then they have no way of reclaiming the VAT. [[Bence of Turdai takes his place in the notary seat.]] I would have expected the government now, if it had been said that the performance of the economy allowed the pensioners to receive a pension not 13 months, but 53 weeks from next year, and then four years later it would have become a full-month pension, I suppose, on the last day of the year, since we do not see it yet; but the point is that the government says that it will bring back a 13th month pension in 2009 with a four-year introduction in 2020. I'm much more modest than that. Besides, I don't like it when someone praises himself, but I hear it every day here, but the fact that someone claims that after ten years of successful government, the performance of the economy has increased steadily, and that the government has been able to pay pensions, says that with this proposal, they are going to return the 13th month's pension so that after four years there will be an entire month's pension for the first time; I'm sorry, I'm asking you, it's unnecessary to follow this rhetoric. It is much easier just to say because it is a positive thing, it is also a forward-looking thing, that now the performance of the economy, epidemic here, epidemic there, will allow us to give one week from January next year for the first time, and then we will always give one week more pensions every year, and we will present this to Hungarian society. You don't have to say any more than that. Why should a government say more than that? Well, that's a positive thing. Do you think that if you don't say so much that we want to give a week's pension more next year, it's not enough for a society to welcome you? Why do you always have to raise, raise, increase the degree of self-image and self-image? There's no need! Besides, it's always suspicious. So I say that we are glad that the government has decided to give pensioners an extra pension from 1 January, with a week more pension, thank you, we are glad, but we do not need to put it in such a high and never seen and never dressed, especially with your prominent representative really, I don't know how many elections before he wanted to go beyond the socialists by promising the 14th month's pension. It's a small problem that you've been ruling for ten years, and you're just starting a part of the 13th, so you shouldn't think of it as your own. But I am sure that my fellow Members have experienced, and I always stick to the numbers and the facts, because it does not usually deceive and say great things with it. In 2010, pensions were paid at 11 per cent in proportion to GDP, i.e. 11 per cent in 2010. Do you know what the total amount of pensions to be paid in 2020 is according to the GDP ratio? 8.9 percent. So in ten years, the Fidesz government reduced all pensions to 8.9 per cent of pensioners from 11 per cent of GDP. So it could be 13 months later, he took me away, and I don't know what kind of pension to talk about 11 years ago, but one thing is for sure, the Hungarian government spends so much less on pensions depending on the performance of the economy. Then let's look at the next data. In 2010, the average pension was 86 thousand forints, and this was 65 per cent of the average salary at that time, so the average pension was this level compared to an average income. Do you know what this number is by 2020? By 2020, the average pension is 50% of the average wage. So we can conclude that in ten years, the income of pensioners has deteriorated by 15 percent compared to those of the active population. And then I'll tell you something else, and that's because while you're discussing this proposal here, I'd like to address a question. Here, the secretary of state and the fellow members of the government are quite rightly saying that they want to support the retirement society, it is important for the government to help to overcome the difficulties of the pensioner society, pensioner society is a sacred group, a social community for the government. Meanwhile, pro-government economic journalists write weekly either on Portfolio or on the daily.hu or in the Gazdaság newspaper that the government has to transform the pension system because this pension system cannot be managed by the budget. So there's always stroking on politics, and that we really love this society, and in the background, it's like these economic analysts feel predestined to make life difficult for the next retirement generation by not having a pension or going to retire or raising the retirement age well. And just because there hasn't been a suggestion to tell you this, I'm going to tell you how deceitful and lying this is, and I'm asking both the representative of the government and the representatives of the government not to touch the pension system until 22:00 in such a way that in any way it would be difficult for the future pensioners or any of the existing pensioners. Why do I dare say they have no basis for this? In 1990 there were 4 million 880,000 workers and 2 million 921,000 pensioners. This means that in 90, there were 52 pensioners for 100 employees. Then in 2010, there were 3 million 781 thousand employees and 2 million 980 thousand pensioners fell on him. Indeed, by 2010 there were 79 pensioners for 100 workers. But we made it to 2020 and what matters is what we have today. Today, please, for 100 employees there are 57 pensioners, because there are now 4.5 million people working, and there are only 2 million 400 thousand pensioners. So the number of employees has increased to such an extent that the number of pensioners has decreased to such an extent that no politician would dare to believe it, that the reason why the pension system should be transformed is because the budget cannot bear it. What's the point? How many employees are in retirement. In 30 years, the favourable situation is favourable in quotes today, and I have not yet talked about it because there are two speeches that, by the way, pension contributions, the increase in nominal value of contributions due to salary increases, the absence of an increase in pensions compared to the increase in contributions, could actually be discussed for an extra 30 minutes. But the point is, don't you dare start this in any way, because I swear to you that I will organize a serious social resistance, so there will really be five hundred thousand people around Parliament, because this is a deceitful, lying process, such a whispering process that they want society to believe that they really, of course, transform the pension system, they can't afford it, my God. I'll tell you why they can afford it, by the way. The reason why macro-numbers are now coming to finance it is because until 2010, the main revenue of the budget was 12,662 billion, by 2020 already 21 425 billion. [[16.30]] This means that the planned budget total was HUF 5000 billion more, but the revenue realised was higher each year. This means, please, that the source of the budget was much higher, even to provide welfare benefits, because the additional cost of investment or other social and sociological needs did not arise higher than inflation, so there has been resources available every time in the last ten years to pay pensions. The system should not be adapted by raising age or starting to pay minimum pensions; its structure should be adapted, but it could be discussed again for 15 minutes. But the point is, over the ten years, there was an increase in the consumer price index of 24.6 percent, which means that pensions should have been increased at least to this extent already in those ten years, and, as my colleagues said earlier, they were significantly behind this. Then. What is the purpose of the pension? The purpose of the pension is that if a person loses his or her ability to work because of his or her age, the pension serves to sustain his or her life. That's the groundwork. But tell me, how can a pension below 100,000 forints provide life support? You know, I've just been told, colleagues, I've looked at the exact fact that 580,000 of our countrymen, a quarter of pensioners, have less pensions than 100 thousand forints. So, since according to Eurostat data, less than HUF 100,000 cannot be lived in Hungary, so it is not possible to live well, but cannot live well, so the reproduction of the biological being cannot be ensured every day, so we are talking about the 580,000 people exposed to severe deprivation. Then the problem is that if you say that this type of 13th-month pension is correct so that everyone gets it in proportion to their own pension, then it is a serious injustice, because I find it difficult to imagine that a pensioner of 400-500 thousand HUF And the higher he'd tell the government that to survive this epidemic or to overcome its difficulties, I'd still like to give you one week, two weeks, three weeks, whatever weeks it is. I can't imagine there being only one pensioner in Hungary. But what I can imagine is that people with such a pension, who are more fortunate, would say to the government, "No, no, first, raise every pension to 100 thousand forints," because this fund, from this source, which you intend to do, is exactly what you can do. And I'd like to tell you, do you know how much these pensioners under 100,000 forints will be worth for an extra week's money? Do you know what it's gonna be? 9,000 forints. In January 2021, the pensioners below HUF 100,000 will be able to give more by HUF 9000 on average. Think about it, if you say that this proposal is justified by the performance of the economy, then why not say that we are helping people with the most difficult fate now, and then next year, if there is an extra HUF 70-80 billion, then we will begin to differentiate the low pensioners, because it is really unfair that we will not raise the 102,000 forints pensioner now, but next year will come when we can correct it in the range between 100,000 and 250 thousand. But don't tell me that the aim of Hungarian society must be to tell a pensioner of HUF 50,000 that you will now receive HUF 6000 in extra money in the first week of the following year, even in the following year, and I have no idea how to correct your pension for ever, while you're retired, while you're alive, at least a month's worth of reasonable expenses will be financed by the pension. Because today, you say to 580,000 people every month, I don't want to fund your life support. This may be said to be a big word, but today, my fellow Members, this is the case. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-06-04-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor first to Mr László Varju of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-04-70	Thank you very much. I'd like to take this short time to express to you all my very strong opinions about the fact that I'm suggesting to you, this pathetic struggle you're doing here, stop. You don't have anything to do with it, and you don't have the right to talk about this serious brand we call a 13th month pension, its use. You put your hairy paws on a case that would otherwise try to get purely political votes. [[Zoltán Balczó: You have a pretty good hand for Secretary of State.]] I'll tell you three things. 1. In the crisis, you don't help pensioners, you don't say a word to them, and you don't help the smallest to survive. Compared to this, we had a proposal, from 10 to 50,000 forints, they should have given immediate help. 2. Fortunately, based on research, people can see through your false approach, and more than half of the pensioners say to you that this is nothing more than a simple attempt to buy a vote. But I'm telling you, this is not gonna work, because what you're doing is unacceptable, and as I said, pathetic squawking. Finally, I have to say to you that we should think very hard about what hundreds of thousands of people who are not worth it would not be worth it if they could benefit from this by the end of the fourth year, then I have to say that Fidesz will help you, and then you will be able to see what kind of help you are providing. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-06-04-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would also like to address Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-72	Thank you very much. Mr President, I didn't get up early because I thought it was my turn, but because the date of signing the Trianon peace dictatorship was 5:30. [[Zoltán Balczó: Should have kept quiet!]] and I hoped that I could at least reduce the guilt of my colleagues in DK because of the absence in the morning, so that I could remind them of this. [[Zoltán Balczó: 36 o'clock!]] 32:00. [[Intercoms from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-06-04-73	With all due respect, I think there was a commemorative meeting today, we talked about it, and now there is another kind of political debate going on. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! Zoltán Balczó: Excuse me, Mr President.]] I have great respect for everyone's personal feelings, but everyone please pay attention to why we're sitting here at this moment in this hour. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-74	That's right, thank you. [[Zoltán Balczó: Thank you, Mr President, and I apologize.]] Thank you. Excuse me. I'd like to fix DK lies quickly in these two minutes, and then I'll talk about something else. The congressman claimed that Ferenc Gyurcsány did not terminate the 13th month pension. Yeah, that's the thing. On 13 March 2009, the T/9810 proposal was submitted by the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, in which there was an extension of the retirement age and the termination of the 13th month pension. You said it wasn't terminated, it was suspended. It's an old commie trick you used, that it's not a austerity, it's a reform, that it's not an end, it's a suspension. Yes, you can. It was said that the 13th month's pension should be granted. That's what you said then. On 13 March 2009, Ferenc Gyurcsány was Prime Minister. In fact, by the time Parliament, the majority organised by it, voted for this, it had failed as Prime Minister. He had already failed before, but by then he had already been legally overthrown as Prime Minister, but the government which led him into the law, he was approved by the government meeting led by him, and the government that led him brought him into Parliament and carried through the general debate. So Ferenc Gyurcsány led it out. I'm asking you. I am very pleased that DK finally recognises the rise in wages, which has not been mentioned before, but finally, Mr Varga acknowledged that there has been a very significant increase in wages in recent years. I'm very happy for you. You may be reprimanded for this. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]]
u2020-06-04-75	Mr Zoltán Varga is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-04-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The thing is, I always listen to Congressman Nacsa stunnedly, and I really don't know if he works with a nickel or if he has to throw in a bigger coin, but he'll always give up the mantra that the Habonys write for you perfectly. In fact, the question here is not what was in the past. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Oh, no!]] But the question now is, what do you do in the present? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Destroy it for good. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[16.40]] Because you can talk about anything here, but the fact remains, you're taking advantage of our poor pensioners in an indecent way, lying to them, making promises to them just to keep their power. You're gonna fall for this. They're gonna fall for it! Your name will be drawn on the basis of history, because what you do is unworthy. They're doing this to people who are down for 50,000 forints. I don't know, have you been to the market lately? In the retirement time band that you leave to the pensioners, it's a kong of emptiness. Our pensioners don't have anything to buy, man! What are you talking about? ! What ten years and eight years are you talking about when these people need to be saved now? Aren't you ashamed? ! Your parents are probably not in this situation, maybe not even mine. But in Debrecen, a lot of pensioners line up for a chicken farm and ask for another one because it says there's not enough chicken tits. And now you promise him that in January he may receive a HUF 9,000 if it is worth it? Well, shame on you. They're spreading the country these people created for themselves. Shame on you, again.
u2020-06-04-77	Honourable Congressman, I'm asking everyone, considering today, to try to stop insulting each other personally. We are trying to debate this debate in line with the parliamentary climate, of course, sometimes taking into account anger, but with each other's respect for humanity. Mr László Pósán is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-04-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to note that Zoltán Varga was probably a long time ago in Debrecen, because the market's visitation shows a completely different picture. I would also like to note that you are right about Bence Tordai, that pensioners will remember that the left has always said no to family support, that he has refused to reduce the rent, that has been a major help for pensioners, that he has said no to the pension premium, that he has said no to the reduction of the rent, that he has also said no to the reduction of the drug prices. These were all important measures for the livelihood of pensioners. In addition, of course, the financial retention of the value of the pension is likewise the same. So when we talk about facts, it's good to take them into account. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the DK Group, Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-04-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that many Members who have worked on the left have the right and the obligation to comment on this agenda. I say this because, as you have done before, you raise this issue with some anger and some anger in the form that you have just presented, that you are also exposed to billboards of giants, that maybe someday you will get something, that is unfair, and that does not have anything to do with crisis management. Now that you need it, you will not help pensioners with a single forint, you will not help the number and members of a million-dollar camp who are in a very difficult situation, who are knocking on the doors of many municipalities and trying to get help. Although it should be said that most of them, or many of them, are trying to get through this by themselves, to get through the policy that put them in a hopeless position from one side. You have been unable to provide meaningful assistance for ten years. For ten years, they designed and built that system to make people think they're in a better position. As a result of the wage increases in the last year, it has been revealed that your communication text, the preservation of real value from their point of view, is the process of breaking down. Many did not understand the reason why they could buy less from month to month. They didn't understand that as you promised, that's what comes out of it. That is why I believe that if I tell you fellow Members that they must feel guilty in this regard, then they must really do so. They have every reason to begin the catching up in which they try to put pensioners in a better position. The fact that they are doing this in this way, and essentially in such a primitive way, rather than giving them this opportunity right now, I think it is unacceptable. A few months ago, banging their boobs, they announced the strong pace of the Hungarian economy's development, but when they had the chance, this 13th month's payment of 3580 billion HUF's pension would cost HUF 70 billion a year. You see, instead of two stadiums, you could have saved them by putting millions in a better position. But they didn't. You didn't do that, you did something else. They made it into a system that I could compare to their favorite entertainment when they encourage as many people as possible to cook cherry brandy, but this process did not even succeed 40 percent, at present they promise 25 percent to people. This is as worthless as the other would be. I think that when you have taken this step, for example, you are contradicting what we hear most from the President of the State Audit Office when he has reports on how much good governance as a standard measure is being listened to and what will happen. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when you are planning a budget, you just forget about the people you should be paying the most attention to; the elderly people who have made it possible for us all to be here. Those who should be able to think not only in economic accounts, but not only in terms of 3 percent, of course, have reason to do so, but also in order to achieve their human appreciation. We can reach it, but it doesn't seem to happen with your help, because you, as the masters of Hungary, are following an immoral philosophy in which you basically want everything for yourself, and therefore take advantage of every opportunity that comes. There are now a number of legislative proposals in which they are about to do so, and they will try to legitimise everything that follows, instead of paying attention to those people with the smallest pensions who need immediate help. I'm pretty sure you didn't do any studies to assess this, because then, on the one hand, you might be here bragging, and on the other hand, you would know exactly what people need. Not to be promised that someday they will help in the difficult situation, in the crisis. That is why I recommend to you the research that supports the fact that this pension increase and, in this sense, the restructuring of the pension system will surely be necessary, because you have unfortunately left pensioners in this case. [[16.50]] Ma'am and gentlemen. With this step, they could not help these people enough. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-04-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa has also applied for a normal but repeated speech from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-82	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As I understand it, Congressman Varga, after speaking after me, did not deny that I was right, and that Ferenc Gyurcsány closed the 13th month pension, and he submitted the bill on this matter only to be clarified, because it is important for the sake of the record that we have already known, only you tried to deny it here an hour ago; but it is okay, we also clarified that. [[László Varju intervenes.]] [[László Varju intervenes.]] We also learned that DK and Varju László are just a brand for pensioners, he called it that this brand is being taken away from them by someone. You think it's a marketing stunt to help the elderly; we don't think it is, which is why we made an alliance with the pensioners in 2010. We have provided real help, we have also provided real help in recent years (László Varju intervenes.) And that's our goal for the next period, but you consider it a brand, which you think we've put our hands on. Well, you guys took your sticky hands off this 13th-month pension you call a brand, took it off in 2009, and spent the money on PPP contracts that you could've given to the pensioners. That is the truth, honourable Member. You are here speaking with a loud voice about the 13th month pension, the justice, the pensioners, the elderly, but in 2009 there were no such brave ones, when you and Congressman Korózs should have stood up for the 13th month pension, then we did not hear from you and Congressman Korózs such loud speeches to save this 13th month pension after all, yet Hungarian elderly people, Hungarian pensioners, should have deserved that what they have already introduced, should not be taken away from them, not with their austerity policy, which the entire Hungarian society has faced during your administration. Then we couldn't have heard that kind of incendiary speech from you. You are right, Congressman Varga, as a law-abiding citizen, I have not been to the market between 9:00 and 12:00, because I have not yet reached the age of 65, so I really could not see how many people were there; I could not look at this, because I could not do it as a law-abiding citizen. Who keeps promises and who doesn't keep promises because that's what you say, we kept what we promised, we kept what we did to the pensioners in 2010. In contrast, Ferenc Gyurcsány promised to reduce energy prices, but only his own company managed to do so. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Klára Dobrev, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, promised European wages, she managed to do this on her own, she certainly has a European salary, and no one else has. That's how your promises work, that you do it for yourself, not for others. Mr Lajos Korózs, lead speaker in MSZP, began to talk about left-wing values, but what did he say about left-wing values? I hope the left-wing representatives have read it. The Encyclical of Pope Leo's Rerum novarum, from which the ideas were stolen, debuted and then squeezed by your then socialist trade union comrades, is now called left-wing values, which have been highlighted from there by the church's social teaching, demented, squeezed out, and have become some sort of left-wing values. But once again, where was he when you could have fought? All of you, from Jobbik to DK, through MSZP, LMP and Dialogue, are trying to continue the class-fighter logic here in Parliament to try to confront those with a higher pension and those with a smaller pension, always this class-fighter logic comes up here from month to month when we listen to you here to try to confront people. We don't want that. If you are the advocates and leaders of pensioners, where were you when you should have voted for the Women's 40s programme? Why didn't they say yes then? Jobbik didn't vote for it either, and left-wing Balliberal parties didn't vote for it, and they didn't vote for the. Women's 40, with which more than 250 thousand mothers and grandmothers were able to live. They did not vote for the program that we promised, which we also agreed with the pensioners, and we did. I specifically ask that Bence Tordai insults and disdains, for example, the Elderly Council and the elderly organisations there, because we consult regularly with them, and pensioners' organisations are present there, and that the Prime Minister, Secretary of State Katalin Novák, regularly attends their meetings, where they tell their needs, where they tell their opinions, what the government listens to, and decide with them, at their request, in agreement with them, decides to bring these proposals to Parliament, and you look down on these organisations because you say that there has been no consultation with anyone that happened, it is... I do not know what sign you used, you look down on these pensioners' organisations. I'm asking you, if you're so proud of your left-wing pension policy, how many times have you paid for a pension premium? Answer me this, how many times you've paid a pension premium. They can't answer that because they didn't pay a pension premium. Congressman Bence Tordai mentioned that Parliament has tabled proposals for amendments to the budget debate on a number of occasions. I looked at these amendments, the last time we had a debate on this year's budget, and then they wanted to have different transfers against the National Security Fund, which, if we had accepted it, would have resulted in us starting the epidemiological defense without a penny. So, if it had been up to you, there wouldn't have been a penny to solve the health defense, to launch economic protection, to get respirators and masks, to pay health workers the extra 500 thousand forints as a token of our gratitude and respect; for that, there wouldn't have been any money if we had taken in your modifications, because you had already spent eight or ten times in your head what the government had safely planned for the reserve. Exactly when this crisis hit us in March, the National Defence Fund was intact, no one spent any of it, it was there, almost HUF 400 billion was available to make the fastest decisions in the fight against the epidemic. Congressman Korózs also said that the burden of various benefits, he only forgets that when they, the left, burdened the various benefits, it was 29 percent now and 15 percent. It's a different number, isn't it? That they're pulling 29 percent off a board or a salary or 15 percent off, it's totally different. You're the ones who tortured people with 29 percent sja. [[László Varju intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Twenty-nine percent personal income tax, that's right. I also think that we should clarify the 14th month pension once and for all what happened here, because you are deliberately misleading public opinion and the Hungarian Parliament. In 2006, in the 2006 campaign, the promise was made that in 2006 we would like to create the possibility that if the electorate honored us with the confidence to set as a goal that there should be an extra one-month pension, then there was a 13-month pension, and there should be an extra one-month pension, this was the goal. Then we didn't get the voter's trust. We did, however, in 2010, and what has happened since 2010? Pensions have increased by 38 percent and in real terms by 10.3 percent since 2010. If we add to the 10,3 percent reduction in premiums, pension premium, pension supplement, Elisabeth vouchers and pension vouchers [[László Varju intervenes.]] then we've been over that one month. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] So we could call it a 14th month pension, we could call it that. Obviously, the pension policy that we have been pursuing has led to results precisely because this happened in an alliance with pensioners. We do not regard pensioners as brands, honourable Member. Our pension policy may have resulted in results, and it could have been a 10.5 percent increase in purchasing value, plus a pension premium, plus vouchers, because we, together with the pensioners, have implemented pension policy, not thinking of them as brands. I ask you to support this bill, get off the high horse, and not try to wipe out the past, because Zoltán Varga begins his speech by saying that it doesn't matter what happened in the past. Well, I understand that you're uncomfortable, and I understand that on your boss's birthday, you have to be very comfortable with a little gift bouquet. [[László Varju intervenes.]] And I suppose that is why cherry brandy came here to speak with the Member, but this can be discussed after the agenda. I'm asking you to support this bill, not attack the government, if you want to return the 13th month pension, and not attack because you have abolished it. Here's your second exam, take an "A" test. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I urge you all to take my warning seriously now that from the point of view of personal attacks, you will be able to go to the level of professionalism and politics. [[17.00]] There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Mr Zoltán Balczó, a former vice-president. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-84	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I do not take the multiple and repeated accusations of Lőrinc Nacsa Jobbik as personal; I wonder why I am answering this perhaps more solid, but this is a professional question. It is not clear to me that you said that according to pensions of different sizes, the confrontation of pensioners is a class warrior logic represented by Jobbik. If you had listened, I said in my speech that when I spoke about how to increase the economic growth in a differentiated manner later on, I stressed that, at the same time, it was not possible to nevoke, because it is not about the fact that these pension differences are not real, that there is a different performance in the work of the whole life. So I just stressed that moving towards nevelling does not, to a greater extent, correspond to what really comes from pension payments and social performance. By the way, the fact that independent Congressman Andrea Varga-Damm suggested that the use of 280 billion in the first year would perhaps have been appropriate: 70 billion for the under 100 thousand, and then another 70 billion for a higher income in a certain band, I alone, although I did not say so, would not have felt as a class-fighting logic if I assumed that there was some solidarity within the pensioner society, too. But again, I didn't bring that up either. Thank you.
u2020-06-04-85	Mr Zoltán Varga is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that I am honoured that Congressman Nacsa so lovingly records it, keeping an account of when Ferenc Gyurcsány's birthday is, and I will be watching that he will be at the birthday party, he will probably receive an invitation. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't get it, unfortunately.]] Thank you very much for warning us, and I'll call Feri and thank you; I suppose you did, too. Otherwise, the debate that is going on here is going to be about the fate of hundreds of thousands of people, and certainly not in a direction favourable to these people, who have actually worked out a life, who, in many cases, do not get the opportunity to enjoy their retirement years in a healthy way, and who, for example, cannot receive home care benefits because of your choices. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It's very unworthy of what you're talking about here, because it's well known that the one who gives quickly gives twice. You don't give fast, you probably don't. I've been reading a long time about the work of your Grand Master, Professor Finkelstein, who has died since then, and I see that since he's been gone, you've been struggling. Actually, there's no normal tops, no tops, no communication, old records, old stacks, but that's not gonna be enough. There will be little for pensioners who would expect that at least now, when there really is a problem, when the family cannot help them, because they have no work left, the state will help them. I ask that you once rise above this everyday mud throwing, and do it so that you do not really serve your own interests, your desire for power, but help people who are in incredible need of this right now. Do what you can to give these people the minimum help they might need to help them survive. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-87	Thank you very much. Welcome. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Secretary of State Novák, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for your comments. I am pleased that there have been leading speakers or some factions that have already explained that they will support this 13th month pension. Thank you to everyone who can support and support you, and with your vote, you will allow us to gradually return the 13th month pension to Hungarian pensioners. I also thank you for all the civilised comments and suggestions, because they help us to think together, and those who are not civilized will be judged once again by the voters when they have the opportunity, and this will obviously affect their decision. I don't think there's any need for this heightened, personal tone that we've seen here at times. Especially when someone tells us that we think this is an important step, and they think that we're giving this a pathetic presentation, and why we're doing it, I'm saying that I think it's okay to ignore the outburst that I think it's unnecessary for us to be able to talk about facts right now, but everyone obviously has their own style, so I think that's it. The specific points can be divided into a few groups, which I tried to collect and not respond individually, as there were several recurring points, but I try to reflect on all the substantive points in my answer. One of the suggestions was why we would return the 13th month pension in four instalments, not in one step. Interestingly, it was not said at all in the debate that, at the time when the 13th month pension was first introduced, it was the same. So in four steps, in four years, it was returned as a week, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks pension, so we can say that we are doing the same thing now. Strangely enough, it didn't poke anyone's eye at the time, and there are some of you who had the opportunity to present and represent it at the time, and now the same decision is critical to me. There have been a lot of physical errors, a lot of incorrect data that has been said here, and I think everyone who is listening to us can verify that, so I don't want to go through this. But for example, I would like to highlight one thing that was also said here, which was not mentioned even after a full 13th month's pension was paid for 6-7 years. This is also something of a bad memory for those who remember it, for there were three years in total when the total amount was paid. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] They still split it into two parts and gave it to the pensioners. So that doesn't add up. Then the criticism was raised that we are deciding on this right now, but we are not introducing it now, but only from January. The interesting thing is, as I listened to you and listened to your argument that I thought there was a significant contradiction between the fact that you once defended the earlier decision to end the 13th month pension because it was a crisis at the time, because the economic situation was difficult at the time, so how understandable it is that you have taken away the 13th month pension from pensioners, that you are legitimizing your own decision at the time, and now, when there is a difficult economic situation because of the coronal virus epidemic, and on the contrary, we are proposing to make a decision. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And we say we give back a 13th month pension, we do that, and then they approach it with the same logic translated on the other side. So it's quite interesting that on one side, this difficult economic situation has led to the decision to take away the 13th month pension, and now, when we want to give it to pensioners in a difficult economic situation, they say, but why don't we give it six months earlier. So weird, anyway, is the logic. What is about the nature of the campaign has also come up - the point is to provide long-term, reliable help so that if we give back the 13th month pension, Hungarian pensioners can count on it in the long term. I trust that it will be so, and no one will ever think of taking it again, ending it. A recurring element has been raised by many, and I think it is extremely exciting, interesting, I can also say that philosophical debate, what is better: if everyone always gets the same amount of money, or if the amount of money one receives as a salary or as a pension, there is some connection to how much he has worked before, so there is a connection between performance and benefits. [[17.10]] I understand that there is a communist logic that follows that everyone must always give the same amount, regardless of performance, but you may also understand that we cannot share it. So this is not the same as our logic, our approach. It's a good thing there's a connection between performance and benefits. So I guess it wouldn't be good for everyone to get the same amount, no matter how much they worked, regardless of what kind of performance they had behind it, regardless of what kind of contributions they paid. And here we have come to the question of abolishing the contribution ceiling, which has also come to the conclusion that it is good or not good that there is a contribution ceiling, and this is linked to higher pensions. It is also interesting that we are talking about one part of it, not the other part, because this picture is such that, after paying significantly more contributions since the abolition of the contribution ceiling, those who then receive more pensions are not involved in the payment of more of them, only why they receive a higher pension. There is also a proportionality here, so I think we should see both sides of this coin. [[Towards Gergely Harvesto:]] I am very pleased that the Member has now arrived and wishes to join the debate here at the closing, but I think it is another more civilized thing if he is to participate in the debate and then try to comment, which is what I propose for the future. [[Gergely Harvesto: Thank you. I don't remember him being my family.]] We would be very happy to listen to you, too, if you wish to participate in the debate, I think we would be very happy to hear it. I don't think that's... [[Gergely Arató: It is not your job to give me life coaching advice! The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not life management, I'm talking to him in the debate...
u2020-06-04-89	Strange as it may be, the secretary of state is speaking... [[Katalin Novak: What?]] I'm telling you, as strange as it is, you have the floor, so you're the only one talking.
u2020-06-04-90	Thank you very much, I thought so, and thank you for confirming this. So I agree with the approach to how good it would be if there were no people with a pension below a certain level. I also think that this is an important point and an important point, and we are also trying to help. This is precisely the case, for example, when economic performance allows us to provide a pension premium. That is what it was all about, that we have now given the pensioners a voucher for Elizabeth several years, trying to help their situation. Obviously, it would be best if we could give the pensioners as much help as possible. So the amendment that concerns the same amount for everyone is not eligible for us because of what I have just said, so we cannot follow this logic. Nor the suggestion that we have here, why we do not give the first year to those who, let's say, have a lower pension, we give it fully to those who are in the next lane the following year. I'd say in this case, let's say two million people wouldn't get their first year. That's why I don't know what those two million people would say... So I would end my thoughts by leaving this to the voters, how they will judge the decision to return the 13th month's pension and return it. I think it's in everyone's best interest, as a politician, as a government. I believe that we can leave this to the voters, and I trust that, as has been done so far, they will make a wise decision. And I would ask you once again to support the return of the 13th month's pension. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-04-91	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control until its closure is reached. Government referral T/10733. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Lőrinczi, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. [[It's a short break.]] We'll wait for the Secretary of State to switch seats in a few seconds. Please be prepared. You have the floor, please.
u2020-06-04-92	Thank you very much. Dear House, The Government of Hungary is committed to the fight against smoking. The accession of our country to the Protocol to the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control on the Elimination of Illegal Trade in Tobacco Products is another step in our consistent action. Hungary was among the first to accede to the World Health Organisation Framework Convention in 2004, which forms the basis of this Protocol. Although the number of deaths caused by smoking in Hungary continues to decline, smoking remains a serious public health and national economy problem. It is estimated that 90 percent of deaths due to lung cancer and one quarter of deaths due to cardiovascular disease can be attributed to smoking. Our country has also made outstanding efforts within the European Union to reduce smoking. This includes, in particular, the limitation of smoking places, the reorganization of tobacco retail trade, the introduction of uniform packaging for tobacco products, and, most recently, the ban on aromatized versions of electric cigarettes. It is important to maintain, strengthen and continue to combat the consumption of illegally purchased and sold tobacco products and the strengthening of the tobacco-black market. Accession to the Protocol will facilitate this, as we will be part of an international cooperation which is currently part of 53 states, as well as the European Union and its 15 Member States and the United Kingdom. The main provisions of the Protocol concern the monitoring of the supply chain of tobacco products. In order to reduce illegal trade, the Protocol includes provisions for the introduction of an authorisation and control system for the production and trade of tobacco products and for the identification of tobacco products and equipment used in their manufacture. International regulation is also at the heart of the requirements for the development of a global monitoring IT system. This system shall be operational from 2023 onwards. Although the technical details are still being developed, the protocol's purpose system will also take into account the technical solutions of the EU monitoring system, as there is currently only a system for monitoring in the European Union. As the application of the EU system has already started in Hungary, accession to the protocol's monitoring system will therefore not entail serious difficulties. At the same time, the Protocol also sets out the illegal practices relating to trade in tobacco products against which States Parties are obliged to take action. It also regulates criminal and investigative cooperation between States Parties, information sharing on abuse of tobacco products and equipment used for their production. This will make the joint work of the determining authorities easier in cases beyond the European Union. Based on the Hungarian legislation in force, it can be concluded that our country can accede to an international convention that allows for more effective control mechanisms in the area of illegal tobacco trafficking without significant budgetary expenditure and without a legislative task. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-04-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go. [[17.20]]
u2020-06-04-94	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2003, Member States adopted the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the organisation's first Global Health Convention. This Convention has been in force since 2005 and is currently a member of 181 countries. The Protocol adopted in 2012 which is the subject of the current bill builds on Article 15 of this Convention and is the first such Protocol within the framework of the Convention. We can therefore say that we are enriched by a very special and important legal instrument in the fight against illegal trade in tobacco products. Even the first Orbán government has addressed smoking control as a priority objective. Smoking is a serious public health problem, one of the greatest risk factors for the development of pulmonary and vascular diseases, and more than 20 different types of cancer. According to WHO data, 8 million people die worldwide every year, and 1.2 million more, including 65,000 children, die from the complications of passive smoking. Smoking significantly weakens the immune system and is therefore considered a risk factor for the coronal virus. Smoking is also a serious national economy problem. Economic damage is worth hundreds of billions of dollars a year globally. The treatment of tobacco-related diseases also consumes significant resources in healthcare systems. In addition, 80% of 1.3 billion consumers come from poorer countries. The majority of smoking-related deaths also occur in lower income countries, so it is clear that there is also a social dimension to the problem. Strict regulation of tobacco trade and taxes imposed are designed to reduce these problems in a cost-effective and reasonable way. By bypassing this, however, illegal trade makes tobacco products more accessible and accessible to anyone, thus undermining the strained work we are doing to reduce smoking. The practice also causes a serious loss of income in public finances, while at the same time providing an important source of revenue for international crime. According to OLAF's estimate last year, the activity causes a loss of around EUR 10 billion per year within the European Union. Illegal tobacco trafficking has the most damaging impact on young people, as easier access and lower prices can be seen as a major incentive for them. Dear fellow Members, Illegal trade in tobacco products would not be invincible. Even if the actors in the illegal tobacco market are vigilantly looking for loopholes and sometimes trying to find a unique solution. Just to give you an example, they were trying to smuggle goods across the border when they were swimming on the Tisza or flying a drone. Fortunately, the Hungarian authorities keep pace with smugglers and the government is effective in preventing them. At the same time, due to the transnational nature of illegal trade, successful public defence can only be truly effective in combination with international cooperation. A global monitoring system for supply chains, information exchange, mutual assistance and other forms of cooperation-based action are essential. Moreover, setting up a global monitoring system, which is an important part of the protocol, would not entail serious additional costs for us, as this global system will be compatible with the existing EU monitoring system. The 2014 EU Tobacco Product Directive has properly harmonised the relevant legislation of the Member States, so we do not have to count on additional expenditure in this area. Finally, I would like to mention that the announcement of the Protocol is particularly topical, because we celebrated the World Smoking-Free Day just last Sunday. This year, the focus of World Day was on protecting young people and preventing early addiction. Prevention is a multi-frontal struggle and the reduction of illegal trade is an important battlefield where we can gain a significant advantage through the publication of the protocol. The Fidesz fraction is committed to reducing smoking, so we will support the bill, and I would like to ask all my fellow Members to do so with respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-04-95	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Balczó that he is the lead speaker of Jobbik in this bill, because it is written for me by Zoltán Magyar, but I would be happy to give you the floor if you are in charge of the faction. [[Zoltán Balczó: Thank you. Thank you, I'm the replacement.]] I see. What I cannot understand is what it means, as I understand the Hungarian word "exchange player," so let us keep in mind that the lead speaker of Jobbik, Mr Zoltán Balczó, is next. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-96	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I didn't give you the proper answer. To be honest, I often do not like to call myself a lead speaker, because in the past there was a leading speech system in large-weight legislative proposals, and I anticipate that I have tried to prepare myself with the head of the topic, so my speech will be brief, if you will allow me. I should repeat in many things what Mrs Selmeczi said, who highlighted from the minutes how important goals and tasks she has been setting, and we need to publish it in law. Obviously, one of the most important aspects of the elimination of illegal trade is that it is able to make tobacco products more accessible and affordable in this sense, not to mention more favourable, because it is cheaper, more accessible, and this is particularly dangerous for young people from a public health point of view. And indeed, when it comes to illegal income, it not only reduces the revenue of a given national economy, but this revenue is reflected in the financing of crime, so it also has a national security role in this respect. In Hungary, where particularly dangerous forms of disease include lung cancer and cardiovascular diseases, we have to face up to this illegal trade in order to achieve our health goals. Undersecretary of State, among the measures taken by the government in this direction, he also mentioned the establishment of a national tobacco shop network. Let me make a comment on the sign that it's national. I understand that a government that declares itself a national is trying to use this term in many cases in institutions, so it does not say that it is a national public health institution, because public health is important for the nation, so we have a National Institute of Public Health. I agree with that. At the time when this national network was established for the proper state-controlled sale and trade of tobacco products, I was a little shocked that there was not a national tobacco shop network, but a national tobacco shop network in red and white green, as we know to what extent smoking is harmful. We must acknowledge it, it cannot be forbidden, but it was a bit dissonant for me, because it means the devout of the national marker; now, on June 4th, I thought it might be worth mentioning. What else are these stores selling anyway? Alcohol, right? So these are the two products that are classified as national networks a little dissonant. By the way, this national tobacco shop network has entered the public address differently. I quote from Wikipedia that I should not use a highly negative term and definition, which I have formulated myself. The system has been criticised since its introduction, mainly because of the maladministration of tenders, the excessive profits of the tobacco wholesaler and certain controversial elements of the regulation. [[17 .30]] That's what the people call a tramp dog. I do not believe that this was part of the fight against illegal tobacco products, or the fight against smoking in itself as a harmful habit, passion, the nationalization. Otherwise, it would be very good, to be honest, I do not see what new instruments in this agreement can be opened to effective action against black trade, because I think there is still room for improvement, so the question is to what extent certain instruments will become more effective for Hungary, when the Hungarian authorities announce this protocol, so that this liquidation takes place. Let me make one more comment, because we really, primarily consider it important to address this whole issue from a public health point of view. Let me ask you a question. I have not seen in recent years a major government campaign that draws attention to the harmful nature of smoking. So I think that if the billboards are about, and there is sufficient funding for, new information that can be used, they do not communicate to Hungarian people, but they want to confirm in them what great results the government has achieved, because if they do not feel this in their own lives, then the billboard should read how many great results are involved. What I would like from this fund is for us to start a campaign on the harmful effects of smoking, even on billboards, with information that, in the face of thinking, might help to reduce this harm to smoking. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-04-97	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is not too late to quit and protect young people from this harmful passion. Perhaps these passwords could be used to describe the fight against smoking. In response to Mr Balczó, I would say that there have often been semantic debate on other topics in national, national, how, this is a sensible debate that can be held here. We have already discussed this with the President-in-Office: National Archives, National Archives, how and how, European examples. I could even agree with what you say about tobacco shops, I think that the original intention is to indicate that it is not a sign that foreign multi-businesses are pouring into large multi-market chains that we know hypermarket and supermarket chains about tobacco products, but that Hungarian small businesses have these shops in their hands. Maybe that's what it means, not that smoking or even selling alcohol is a national matter. The aim of the current bill is for Hungary to accede to the Protocol to the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control on the Elimination of Illegal Trade in Tobacco Products. Accession to the Protocol is, in our view, a common social interest, as it can be an additional incentive to combat illegal trade in tobacco products and to combat smoking in general. Smoking is also a serious public health problem in Hungary, which obviously has an impact on the national economy. Smoking is considered responsible for 90% of lung cancer, which is one of the leading deaths in Hungary. A quarter of deaths due to cardiovascular disease can also be seen as a consequence of smoking. Since 2010, the national government has been committed to reducing smoking. To this end, we have taken measures to protect non-smokers, we have placed great emphasis on the importance of prevention, and we also support smoking cessation with budgetary resources. While until 2010, it was completely natural that virtually anyone could smoke anywhere, at any time, with smaller exceptions, with other exceptions, in schools were designated places for smoking; now they are no longer fortunate, it is now unthinkable to smoke in public institutions, in designated places, in designated places, in stops, pubs, restaurants, in other community enclosed spaces. I consider it particularly important to protect young people from smoking. Therefore, the ban on smoking, the ban on any advertising of smoking, is a significant achievement around educational institutions. Here, I would like to refer back to Mr Balczó that we have achieved much greater results with the complete ban on advertising, of course, we always need preventative films, especially in education, in the framework of classrooms, in the framework of health training, but he also knows that negative advertising is also advertising, which Jobbik does not need to explain. Negative advertising is also advertising, so often prevention, complete banning advertising and appearance in all kinds of films and advertisements are considered to be much more effective. National tobacco shops also have stricter tobacco sales rules, programmes and calls for young people to face the dangers of smoking. I think it is very important here that last year's tightening of the rules on the sale of tobacco products to minors is very important that the right to concession should be revoked immediately, without any consideration, if the seller falls back and gets this. This was last year's amendment, which also enjoyed a consensus that went beyond the governing parties, essentially here in Parliament. This is the tightening we called for earlier. In addition to prevention and support for cessation, it is also in the national interest to reduce illegal trade in tobacco products, to which we add our accession to the Protocol. The European Union has been a member of the Protocol since 2016 and is constantly calling for the accession of individual Member States. Our accession to the Protocol is not expected to create significant legislative obligations or budgetary expenditure. Also in response to my fellow Member Balczó, this protocol helps to prevent the introduction of a global tracking system that is linked to the national tracking system. Thus, either in the production of products in individual locations or in transport, we will not only see to the border where and where these products are going, but you also know the expression that it has fallen off the truck, and therefore the global tracking system will have a wider view of them. This is how the current protocol helps to introduce this annex on the establishment of a traceability and monitoring system. The global tracking and monitoring system to be established shall cover all tobacco products manufactured or imported in the territory of the Parties and shall consist of the interconnection of the Parties' national tracking and monitoring systems. This is therefore compatible with the Hungarian and EU legal systems, as well as with the Hungarian national interests, contributes to strengthening the steps to reduce smoking, so the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-04-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. He's next. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-100	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Reducing smoking is a very important part of the fight for people's health and longer lives. At the meeting of the World Health Organisation, WHO, already held in May 2003, the Member States adopted a Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. The aim was to reduce smoking to a minimum by preventing the epidemic of smoking. The aim was also to reduce social costs due to the adverse health effects of smoking. It may not be necessary to say that it is not only about the price of treatment of tobacco diseases, but also about the damage to the national economy caused by the loss of labour due to smoking. [[17.40]] The Framework Convention and its Protocol were adopted in November 2012. An essential element of this is the reduction of illegal tobacco trade, which can be achieved through international cooperation and the development of an effective legal set of rules. We know that cigarette trading is a significant part of illegal tobacco trade, although it also affects other products, such as towable tobacco. In the past, illegal trade was primarily about smuggling large quantities of well-known cigarette brands in containers. However, in the last ten years, counterfeiting and related illegal production have increasingly gained ground. The European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, estimates that illegal trade in cigarettes causes a loss of more than EUR 10 million per year to the budgets of the EU Member States. These losses arise from unpaid duties, taxes and excise duties. However, illegal tobacco trafficking is not just an economic issue, but also a criminal issue, because illegal trade also encourages the shadow economy and maintains cross-border criminal organisations. In addition, illegal trade threatens our future, as one of its main targets is young people, this is what my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, spoke about, whose quality of life and prospects for life are clearly negatively affected by smoking habit. Despite the measures taken so far, illegal tobacco trade is targeted at the EU's eastern border, particularly the Baltic region. The main countries of origin of tobacco products illegally traded in the European Union are Russia, Ukraine and increasingly Belarus. An EU-funded study estimated that consumption of illegal cigarettes in the EU was 8.5 percent in 2007, while in 2012 it increased to 11.1 percent. This corresponds to a 30% increase. The illegal circulation of tobacco products in Hungary is also on the rise. For example, according to the National Tax and Customs Office, in 2017 the authorities found 37 million more smuggled cigarettes. This figure has already increased to 41 million in 2018 and 50 million in 2019. According to the European Commission, illegal cigarettes trade has four main drivers. The first is that it's financially worth it. Although the margins between EU countries have decreased, the prices of the countries along the eastern border may still be up to eight times lower. The other reason is that supply chains are not properly controlled, there are no legislative measures at EU level requiring the operators involved in the tobacco supply chain to be screened or tracked. The third reason for encouraging illegal tobacco trafficking is that there is often a lack of a mechanism for effective cooperation between authorities and EU bodies and that the means of control are incomplete. In countries protecting the EU's external borders, there are also no scanners or well-trained search dogs. Finally, the weak sanctions for illegal tobacco trafficking should be mentioned among the reasons. The level of penalties varies greatly between Member States. Obviously, criminal organisations engage in larger activities where penalties are lower. The Protocol to the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control sets out proposals for solutions that could address this increasingly serious problem. The monitoring system for tobacco products, monitoring and monitoring trade, strengthening legislation, increasing the effectiveness of official measures, technical and financial assistance and the promotion of international cooperation are all intended for this purpose. In addition, it should be supported that, like other states, our country continues to implement customs cooperation with Russia, Ukraine and Moldavia, in cooperation with the fight against smuggling. Partnership and cooperation agreements with China, Vietnam, Malaysia and Singapore can also serve as a basis for enhanced cooperation in the fight against organised crime. Finally, people should be made aware of the negative consequences of illegal trade, both from a health, national and criminal point of view. If these goals and efforts remain not only words written on paper but also in concrete actions, then the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will support them. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-04-101	Thank you very much. We have come to the end of the keynote speeches, and I hope to make other similar announcements. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. There is no pre-notification of a normal word, but it is my duty to ask that someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak, especially to what has just been said. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed as no one has made any further comments. I will ask Secretary of State Lőrinczi, the author, if he wishes to reflect. There's a way. Do you wish to reflect on what has been said? [[Dr. Zoltán Lőrinczi: Yes. Mr President,]] Wait, wait. If you wish, I'll determine that. [[Defiance.]] So it looks like you want me. Very good. Then it's up to you. Here you go. You can start talking now.
u2020-06-04-102	Thank you very much. I'll give it back to you soon. I am very pleased that we have also heard constructive and forward-looking statements from the opposition on this matter, and I am convinced that we will be able to fight smoking together as a common enemy, even with this tool proposed by the government now. So far, I've asked for the floor.
u2020-06-04-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The amendments are being tabled, Honourable Parliament, and you will be informed that Friday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10742. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-04-104	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I welcome you to the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Trianon Peace Dictate on the day of national solidarity. It is an honor to speak to you here today in the House of the Country, even if the subject is not related to the historic anniversary. However, the State Secretary responsible for public education is also a historian in terms of his or her profession, and he cannot literally go beyond the memory of this event, especially because it is the task of the education system, which we are happy to undertake, to establish and strengthen a national identity, a sense of national belonging. You can be sure of that and count on us. The government also aims to ensure that our education system provides all young people with thorough and effective training for their adult life. That is why we made preschooling compulsory in 2015 and therefore we are strengthening the system of public education, so we are changing the vocational training system, and this also controls the government during the model change of higher education institutions. The measures I am presenting to you today also serve this purpose. The bill to be negotiated contains the necessary legislative amendments to ensure the provision of textbooks free of charge to all students from September 2020. This was decided by the government in February 2019, thus extending the free textbook supply to all grades in both public education and vocational training in the 1-9th grade. To cover the operation of the free textbook service, the 2020 budget grants HUF 13.8 billion. We are convinced that the fact that all Hungarian students receive the textbook free of charge contributes to the effectiveness of education, and I hope that it cannot be a splinter in the eyes of the opposition. The bill also amends the rules for the registration of public education institutions, and re-regulates the content of the statutes and basic professional documents of the institutions. This has been deregulation in the past, but life has shown that there is a need to lay down these rules at a legal level. The bill also expands the range of students who have a special educational requirement for basic art education free of charge, while at the same time making the rules on this matter more coherent. In this context, contrary news has also been published in the press, which we have consistently denied, but I would also like to confirm here that in the future, the entire range of students with special educational needs will be entitled to basic art education free of charge. If this bill is adopted by this House, we will comply with the explicit request of national authorities to add a new type of institution to the institutional system for ethnic education, the supplementary kindergarten of nationality. This type of institution can help the small number of nationalities by enabling, in addition to traditional kindergartens, basically the establishment of institutions for ethnic language education on weekends. This could be an important message today, when, for example, the Ukrainian government's activity after a hundred years seems to make it difficult and impossible for Transcarpathia's teaching system to be in Hungarian. The amendment of the law links the regulation of the definition of the operational and admission district of national education, educational institutions and the request for agreement by the minority self-government on individual decisions with the relevant rules of the National Rights Act, while ensuring the consistency of the rules that have been interpreted differently in the future. The proposal has, of course, been agreed with representatives of nationalities, and we thank you for your supporting cooperation. The bill also contains a technical deregulation, on which there were also misleading press reports during the opinion of the bill. [[17.50]] It is important to point out that the educational requirements of teachers do not change, so it is not possible, in future, to employ teachers without adequate qualifications or qualifications, but, as a result of the amendment of the law, the qualification requirements for the use of teachers will be included in the future, not in an annex to the law, but in a government decree. This is due to the need to amend the Annex to the National Public Education Act seven times in the eight years since the entry into force of the Law due to the continuous change in teacher training. In the future, technical amendments will be sufficient to be implemented in a government regulation. I have no doubt that this amendment will certainly be the subject of comments, and I would therefore like to stress that the conditions will not change, but they will be brought to the level of regulation, and the reason for this is that if there are changes in the Government Decree on teacher training, if there is a new profession, then there is no need to amend the law in itself. The fact is that, at the moment, while the government's decree is sufficient to establish a new teacher's degree, in order to be able to get a job as a teacher in the course concerned, it is already necessary to amend the law. I would ask the honourable Members to treat this in place, and in the last eight years, no one has ever said anything about this part of the seven technical amendments to the annex. I ask you to support me in this, to put this issue within the jurisdiction of the government. The bill also addresses the remaining issues of the separation of public education and vocational training, with the aim of creating the smooth functioning of the art schools and vocational schools that continue to operate in the system of public education. One of the strong aims of the legislative amendment is also to increase the protection of teachers and the elimination of violence against them. Recently, violations of teachers' violence, threats or physical abuse, which, unfortunately, were students in several cases, have increased. They were made public, and then the social media gained significant ratings for video recordings of violence against teachers openly, mostly made by fellow perpetrators. In the videos, students mainly verbally, but sometimes physically, abuse and humiliate the educator who is trying to do their job. This is inconclusive, and this is condemned by the vast majority of society. The amendment of the National Public Education Act aims to guarantee that teachers can do their work in a safe environment and in calm conditions, thus creating the possibility of involving the newly set up school guard, the body set up to perform police tasks, if necessary, in order to protect teachers. The bill on the establishment of a school guard and related measures is presented by the Ministry of Human Resources as an independent bill. The amendment currently under discussion does so only in the form of a declaration between its provisions at the level of principle. I am aware that Members may also dispute this declaration of principle. We too would be more pleased if this were not necessary if the problem did not exist if the students loved and respected their teachers and did not engage in acts of violence. Unfortunately, however, the world is not changing to its advantage in this area, and we therefore consider the measure to be necessary. Of course, this is only one of the conditions required for the safe work of teachers, and further measures are being taken in this area, which will include measures of a sanctioning nature as well as preventive measures. This bill does not contain these, and there is only one reason for this: further measures do not need to be amended by the National Public Education Act, but I can assure you that this is not a unique measure; however, we do not need to amend a law to focus on this issue in teaching. In order to improve the preparation of students in pedagogical training to work with study groups from different environments and to deal with potential conflicts, we will therefore strengthen the development of conflict management skills during training. There is no need to amend the law in order to continue our programmes to improve the capacity of teachers who are already on duty to deal with conflicts, with the aim of adequately addressing, as far as possible reducing, harassment and aggressive manifestations in and outside the school environment, but we can also continue mental health and further training. Both prevention and sanctions are therefore present among the government's actions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the last few months, when the individual cases took place, you have flooded us with questions and asked the government to take action to protect the teachers. Our proposal to amend the National Public Education Act contains one element of this. Please, I suggest you vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr László Pósán, can be the first to give his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to start with what Mr Secretary of State has said: namely that reducing school violence is a task that will not be tolerated now. Just think that not so long ago it was also an example of what, to say, seemed unimaginable that a teacher had been stabbed in school. I think it is very right that we try to apply all the tools that seem imaginable and useful in this regard, and to ensure and protect the integrity of teachers and students at school in this respect as well. However, it should not be forgotten that this is not the focus of the most obvious substance of the bill, as has already been said, because it is only declarative, and it will sort this out in a separate law, but it will essentially take specific professional questions, professional questions that are fundamentally lacking in clarification, supplementing, detailing or supplementing existing legislation. So, for example, I think that we can rejoice and look specifically at the completion of a process that has started, that now, thanks to this bill, every year is covered by free textbook supply, both in public education and in vocational training. This was an earlier goal, we were able to achieve it step by step, and now we are coming to the end. Thank God, that's how we got it. Obviously, the technical procedure for the registration rules needs to be adapted to the particular situation, and therefore some technical amendments are needed here, as is the reflection or clarification of the content of the statutes and basic professional documents. These are all, let's be honest, participants in public education, students, parents, but I may not exaggerate if I say that the majority of teachers are fundamentally less interested, because this ultimately falls within the remit of institutional management, but it is obviously necessary to address this in a legislative context. It is very right that the bill expands the range of students who have a special educational requirement for basic art education free of charge, which has not been sufficiently regulated so far, as has the fact that, at the request of national authorities, it makes a number of proposals, such as supplementing the kindergarten of nationality, which has not yet existed. So I think it is important that they can start operating in the future, and that they also address financing issues in this context. The bill also contains a number of parts that stem from the fact that the system of public education and vocational training has been quite clearly separated in recent times. So here there were a number of legal concepts that needed to be clarified, organized, and brought into harmony, so that the system could be coherent and transparent, all the more so, because there were still vocational schools and vocational schools within the public education system, so obviously they had to be combed together. The bill states that the framework curricula ensure the implementation of the NAT. I think it is important to note this because the new basic curriculum, which provides schools with much more room for manoeuvre to draw up their pedagogical programme, to develop their specific image, can appear in virtually these framework curricula and in local educational programmes that can be derived from the framework curricula. This means that there has been a good 10% increase in the scope for schools and educational bodies in this regard. The 2011 Public Education Act has not yet recognised primary national art education among the basic tasks, and this law makes up for this deficiency: it creates a uniform interpretation of the law, legal certainty on this issue, and together with this, the maintenance authority will be entitled to use budgetary support; again, I consider this to be an important issue. [[18.00]] Overall, I can say that the legislative amendment mainly contains technical changes, contains legal clarifications, issues relating to nationality education, text points resulting from the separation of vocational education and training systems, and terminology changes, so I believe that the proposal should be supported in all respects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-107	Thank you very much. Mr Ander Balázs, lead speaker for Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Pesterzsébet, Nagykáta, Mezőtúr yes, we have seen the shocking and totally unacceptable atrocities against teachers, which cannot be left unspoken. Such acts are inexcusable, and I believe that the perpetrators must be punished accordingly. I will spare you from boring anyone here with the legal parts, and I would like to deal specifically with this issue, but I think the Secretary of State expected that from the opposition benches this would be the cardinal point that most of us would like to deal with here. So, these cases that the media has picked up are probably just the tip of the iceberg, the latency could be huge. Besides, before I became a Member, I also had an honest job, and I taught it, and it is precisely in a vocational school in the countryside that in many cases can bring up a wide range of these problems and the sociocultural horrors from which the children who study there can get out. I am saying that the latency can be enormous, because there was a time when, after a case like this, the colleague confessed and blushed about what the students might have done to him. Some thought they were some kind of Amazon-side Indian who shot a little pin arrow with a blowpipe. It is truly amazing what brings young people, as if children, to such acts. However, we have to turn back to how much punishment and the appearance of the school guard are a symptomatic treatment, how a Band-Aid is on the pus-cooling problem that school violence poses in today's Hungary. Secretary of State, they've been on the government for ten years, I think it's probably a legitimate question of what they've done over the ten years in order to ensure that such cases, the field-tourist, could indeed be classified as these horrific acts cannot happen. So somewhere at the root of the problem, we should be dealing with all this trouble. And they didn't fight for it. From here, also from the benches of Jobbik, we submit every year the proposals for amending the budget, which precisely aim to say that early childhood integration is much greater, with special attention in Hungary. You have to look at how much the Hungarian state spends on, say, the. Commissioner's start-ups, which is a very good initiative, especially if they do it right, and they don't shrink the work that happens there. So, we say that these programmes should not be felt sorry for the money, because this would save the Hungarian future. We also say that teachers who work there should pay more attention to schools, because in many cases they deal with children with problematic family backgrounds, really out of faith, love, devotion, professionalism, that it is completely humiliating and unacceptable that when I think back to the year 19 there should be a six-month delay in the amount of money expected from the Hungarian state. And we also say that if these schools are working well, then these models, good practices, should be disseminated, and the Hungarian state would be much more supportive of what we see now. So the state has a responsibility, it's a fact and it's real. And if we look at the amount of resources coming into these areas and compare it to what they're spending here, we're gonna have to take our heads off, and we don't understand why you don't see that this is an area where we should focus more on, if we're gonna save the country's common future, because public peace depends on how many children go into the pool. I don't have to be particularly concerned about who made that statement, Zoltán Pokorni. Indeed, the situation in today's Hungary is that on an annual basis there are about ten thousand children, ten thousand young people, lost and lost, and the Hungarian state would have a huge responsibility to save them. And save the public rest, because if every year 10-15-20 thousand young people get into the labour market without any useful skills, they just hang around the world as early school leavers, then I guess I don't have to get too involved in what kind of social explosion this could be sooner or later. So we have the responsibility of the state. I will never, ever say that there is no responsibility for the individual, that man is not me. I'll never say the family doesn't have a responsibility. By the way, I'm very sorry that Mr. Secretary of State Retvári is not in here right now, because we had a rattle yesterday. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not fair!]] My fellow Member, Nacsa, was not fair, which was cut off yesterday by the Secretary of State. What was it about? I've been talking about families that have been massively socialized in crime for generations. And then, in his reply, the Secretary of State says that I'm the one who covered in Gypsies. If he comes up with the idea that I'm a covert Gypsy, then I have to say he's very, very prejudiced about Gypsy in Hungary. [[Gergely Harvesto: Like this, like this, like this, like this.]] I've been embarrassingly careful, and I'm doing it now, so when I talk about criminal families, I don't mix ethnic origin into this. Please don't do this, either, and let's not fight this straw puppet technique, or you guys don't come up with that, so don't try to get involved in anything I don't say. If that's what I want to talk about, then I'm gonna talk about it. I've got the balls to say what I'm thinking. I'm sorry. I would have done it in this case, but that's not what this is about. Once again, I taught you, I don't live in some deep-sea bubble, not in a luxurious park surrounded by walls, so I know where I am, but I know what I'm talking about, and that's why I have to reject what was here yesterday at the Secretary of State level, because I've had a lot of positive examples. With children, young people who might have had to study with headlights because they didn't have electricity at home. He studied, yeah, there, at the gypsy camp, graduated, became a cop. To this day, I am more proud of these pedagogical success experiences than I used to be. a Hiller or a Hoffmann medal. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He can't answer, that's not fair.]] I think that's what grade teachers. Mr. Secretary, if you're thinking about introducing the school guard, and I'm not going to reject it, I'm saying that, yes, there may be a moment, there may be a point where almost everything is irreparable, and we have to use such drastic measures, but I would like to ask you that in those schools, that 140-150 vocational school, that 350 primary schools, you've tried everything to deal with the problems in a pedagogical way. Here I would like to refer to the school model in Heyökkeresztúr, the school model that has been proven over the course of twenty years. And if someone were prejudiced, I would say that this is a typical Borsodi ghetto settlement, there is no way to achieve results here. By the way, in this school teaching 200-some students, the proportion of disadvantaged students is two-thirds, 80% of students are Gypsy-born, and yet 70 percent of students, children, continue to study in schools that give graduations. [[18.10]] There's no dropout, there's no over-age students, there's no tension in sitting there, let's say, in seventh grade, a 16-year-old kid. They had a way of working it out. The example of Stanford University adapted from San Francisco, and the creators of this one said that what the principal Emese the Great did there was far better than what they originally invented. Children have success, study, work, no discipline problems. So what I'd like to ask you is what kind of survey preceded the introduction of the school guard and even asked those institutions, directors and faculty to listen a little bit here, you could choose what you want: a school warden, or, say, a full-time social educator, a school social worker, a school psychologist. 'Cause I don't think our public education system is completely out of control with these professionals. And if they say that we are out of all the tools and have such specialists; financially, morally, in every respect we have such experts, then I really wouldn't know what to say as a teacher, that's what we are, we have come to the edge of the gap, and somehow we have to prevent school escalation of violence. However, according to some surveys, 10 percent of Hungarian students are victims of school violence several times a week. There are a lot of ways to do this, so let's not get into this right now. So that's not fair. In good times, parents entrust their children to the school to study there, to be safe there, not to suffer lifelong traumas, or, where appropriate, to have far more serious consequences for aggression. We can think, for example, of a relatively elite school: more than a decade ago, Kaposvár happened when two of its classmates in a high school, saying that they were very annoyed, killed with bestial cruelty and, by the way, young people from a good family killed another youth. Nor can a school in Győr where the young man stabbed his teacher be considered some kind of country gladiatorial or ghetto school. So I would also like to point out here that the world or this problem is not as black and white as some people might wish to set it. It's a lot more than that. It's a lot more complex than that. That is why I am forced to ask these things, that in these matters, which I have mentioned, the better provision of school support staff, the strengthening of the school-out-of-school school, but still at some level co-operating school system... Mr. Secretary of State can obviously say numbers here, but the fact is that if we look at a population of ten million people, almost one and a half million children who are involved in the public education system, then these initiatives are just the tip of the iceberg. They should pay much more attention to this, and we do not understand why they do not do so because they do not. And then towards the end, I would like to say once again that, yes, there are cases that are inexcusable. Unfortunately, the science of psychology says that one percent of the population is psychopathic, even as a child. Who you can't do anything with, who can only be contained in order to protect the others from him. And yes, there are then, without color, criminal families, where the school is not the only possibility of breaking out, where the school and the teacher are better off just some useless thing, and in worse cases, the enemy against whom all sorts of frustrations, all sorts of anger, perceived or real grievances can and must be exploited. Yeah, there are cases like that, and, yeah, I can also see that I know that at some point there's nothing they can do about it. By the way, I was at the special children's home in Kaposvár, Zita Children's Home, where there were 19 residents, 38 employees and professionals. So in the aristocrat world, the babies of the aristocrat families did not get as much attention as they did there. What was the problem? It's that they got there late. I would like to draw your attention to this, that the intervention as early as possible can work wonders. Resources spent in education and education are often repaid. We are going to try again, in the course of the budget negotiations, to find a way to bring this fundamental truth to the government. We are also curious to see that, compared to previous years' practice, these proposals are being swept away. Thank you.
u2020-06-04-109	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is next. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The aim of the national government is to create a competitive, genuine, valuable knowledge and experience education system that provides flexible, innovative and competitive training opportunities for young Hungarians to adapt to the requirements of today's world. I think that if we are talking about such an agenda here in the Parliament at the beginning of summer, after the completion of the first phase of the coronal virus crisis, we should take this opportunity to thank the teachers who, in recent months, have survived in the digital curriculum, who, from one moment to the next, have taught our children from a distance, with different solutions, with different follow-up systems. So I think that, first of all, it should be said in the voice of thanks when we negotiate a bill of this kind of topic here in Parliament. Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has continuously increased the amount of budgetary resources spent on education. This year, educational expenditure amounts to HUF 2149 billion, while next year's budget for education will increase to HUF 2228 billion in the budget that is now before Parliament and will be negotiated next week. With this in 2021, if this budget is adopted, you will receive HUF 900 billion more money for education than the last left-wing budget adopted in 2010. From the next academic year, September 2020, the textbook supply will be completely free, and this year's 2020 budget will provide HUF 13.8 billion in funding. After the 10 percent increase in teacher's wages in July this year, the government spends 355 billion HUF more on teacher's wages than in 2010. Hungarian teachers can continue to rely on the national government, with 170,000 teachers affected by the salary increase in July. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Thursday, 4 June 2020 135/3. Number Parliamentary Diary We Christian democrats support the government's goal of leading Hungary in the field of innovation. We believe that this requires a competitive vocational training system capable of adapting to the challenges of today. We cannot do this without following the latest global economic processes if we are to keep up. Today, a change like an industrial revolution is taking place in the world, an innovation-technology-scientific renewal, where high added value work is becoming increasingly important, so at the end of last year, Parliament adopted a law establishing a new, innovative competitive vocational training system, which therefore separates the vocational training and public education system. The objectives of the amendment to the Public Education Act before us include the smooth functioning of public education institutions and uniform application and interpretation of law. One of the main objectives of the law amendment is to eliminate the abuse of teachers. Here I wanted to respond to my better fellow Member, because I do not assume at all that you were referring to someone's origin yesterday. I don't suppose that's because you might not be in your group today, because Mr. Party President would have fired you. And who has responsibility because you listed extraordinary groups of families have responsibilities, small local communities have responsibilities, gangs have responsibilities. Congressman, there is also a responsibility for parties who encourage violence, who make hateful speeches here in Parliament against pro-government representatives in a mass, about what kind of sweeping, extortion... It is also the responsibility of parties whose representatives threaten the Secretary of State with a slap in the neck, or who invites people to the streets, or who block the way to the pulpit. These parties are also responsible, honourable Member, for acts of violence. [[18.20]] We believe that the abuse of teachers must be stopped, and that it must be strictly combated. The educational work of educators in order to educate and educate future generations should be accompanied by recognition and appreciation. The abuse or intimidation of teachers is unacceptable and outrageous. It is unacceptable for anyone to act aggressively against teachers. We cannot allow deviance to win the way to a single Hungarian school. The amendment to the law before us aims to guarantee that teachers can do their job in a safe environment and in calm conditions, thus creating the possibility that, if necessary, a body established to perform police tasks, the new school guard, may be involved in order to protect teachers if necessary. The state must take action to ensure that all Hungarian teachers and all Hungarian students are able to participate in the education system under safe conditions. We cannot allow some deviant behaviour to undermine the right of students to learn. This bill is an important step towards secure schools, but we are open to dialogue and we may need to take further steps in this area. The bill before us contains, in addition to the above, a few amendments to education and education in nationalities, which I would like to mention in particular. At the express request of the national authorities, a new type of institution is added to the institutional system for ethnic education, the supplementary kindergarten of nationality. Our aim is to ensure that as many nationalities living in Hungary can attend the whole public education system from kindergarten to grad school. The German nationality has the widest possible opportunity today, because in Hungary, from kindergarten to university degree, German language training is provided, which is unique, there is no such training anywhere else in Europe except for countries with German lips. The amendment of the law combines the regulation of the definition of the operating-receiving district of the educational institutions of nationality and the request for agreement by the local government on certain other decisions with the relevant rules of the National Rights Act, in relation to a clear system of reconciliation, a clear hierarchy and the regulation of the request for agreement. We Christian Democrats are committed to giving high-quality ethnic education to nationalities living with us, who are state-creating factors under our Fundamental Law. We regard nationalities as values and resources, who enrich our country. It is particularly important to say this on 4 June in the evening. It is also important that Hungary appreciates its nationalities. Over the last ten years, we have constantly increased the support of ethnic institutions and national authorities. We supported teacher exchange programmes, scholarship programmes, cultural programmes and civil society programmes in order for young people of indigenous nationalities to experience their ethnic identity here, and, of course, we will never prevent the Romanian state from, say, supporting a Romanian ethnic school here in Hungary, so we also ask reciprocity so that if we support Hungarian ethnic institutions across the border, this should not cause any problems in the majority state there. Not only do we accept it, but we are also particularly pleased that, for example, a teacher exchange programme or language learning programme can be implemented through joint funding from two countries. We're also looking for these cooperations. Here I would like to thank the minority advocates, the representative of nationality, for the role of the bridge in this work, so that cooperation between states in these areas, which concerns young people, can be achieved by camping, educating, and thus young people of nationality can also acquire these community-creating experiences and the certain knowledge they need. Mr Harvesto, when you are back in the room, you would be disappointed if I did not tell you the numbers before 2010 and you would ask for it, which is why all I have said about the performance of the national government is that 14,000 teachers and 1,200 kindergarten teachers have been dismissed under Mr Arató and that more than 100 schools and 300 kindergartens have been closed. These are the data in the scale pan. I told you about the other side. The bill is a forward-looking bill, and we would like to continue to work on similar legislative proposals. Of course, this is supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-111	Thank you very much. It substantially shortens the debate of this bill that I am currently chairing, so there is no way to comment according to the house rules. [[Depreciation and interruptions.]] I leave this to everyone's taste, but, of course, the house rules have to be respected. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-112	Thank you very much. There is a woman standing next to every successful man, so accordingly, I am pleased that you have entrusted this task to me, and I have your support, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out to Mr President, Secretary of State and colleagues that this ten-year anniversary, the day of national inclusion, is indeed important for all of us, and I would like to confirm my fellow members of government that it is indeed very important, thank you for your work, but we cannot forget the children, and also the parents who had to be involved in digital education. So I have to say that this was a real challenge for everyone, but I can say that I, who visited Philip last week with a family of 16 children, told him that it is true that he can access the Internet and that his children can receive education, and that this is a serious expense for him. So there are a lot of hidden things that we weren't necessarily aware of, so I think it would be worth analyzing anyway. I must then be sad to say that this amendment of the law, I consider it to be undeveloped, and I would like to give some examples on this matter, but still with the hope, Mr Secretary, that I can encourage the people who are sitting here to think together. According to the amendment of the law, the implementation of the NAT is ensured by the master's plans. This is a certain NAT that has received numerous professional criticisms, and I have to say that it is also worth watching how much digital distance learning during the corona virus epidemic has left the teachers time and energy at all to work out the local master plan, because that means that they have spent a lot more time, in my opinion, at least the people I have been talking to; so I would like to know how they have consulted the teachers on this issue. Then the amendment of the law from 2021 gives free public textbooks to all children, I think it is an extraordinary thing, but it does not provide teachers and parents with free textbook selection. I'd like to know why. Tell me why you're so afraid of educators' professional autonomy. But to be more than critical, Mr Secretary of State said: I think it is particularly positive that children with SNI can have access to art education free of charge, because it has been shown from a pedagogical point of view that arts can help to alleviate behavioural disturbances. It is also a legitimate discount, if I understand correctly, that the institutional system for ethnic education is complemented by a new type of institution, the supplementary kindergarten of nationality, which my fellow Member Nacsa spoke on a longer basis, and I consider this to be absolutely important and good. At the same time, I think that the amendment on the educational requirements of teachers should have been made not now, but last year, when it was made possible for teachers to be replaced by persons without pedagogical qualifications in the event of a shortage, but with the same professional degree. The biggest problem, however, is the provisions on the elimination of pedagogical abuse. Even now, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to make it clear that the elimination of pedagogical abuse is an absolutely understandable and legitimate effort. Our position is, too, that teachers must do their work in a safe environment and in calm conditions. Therefore, there is no debate between us in the formulation of the objectives. [[18.30]] However, we have strong professional objections to the instruments used. For example, the question arises as to how well a law enforcement organisation, members of which would be present in schools personally, can serve the school's educational work. Several experts are of the same opinion that neither children nor educators would really have a positive impact on a law enforcement officer. In fact, there is a great risk that they could cause the opposite effect that we would like to achieve. Of course, the appearance of law enforcement bodies within the Institute may initially contribute to an increase in the sense of passive security for those working there and temporarily reverse violence in schools. But I am convinced that this will not be a solution in the long term, because think about it: during a certain age, the retortions expressed are not a deterrent at all. How much can a child with a limited 12-year-old be held back, for example, by withdrawal of family benefits? International experience shows that police action alone is not enough to reduce school violence and, in some cases, even exacerbates problems. Police action in most countries where it is used is only a complementary element of preventive programmes. In order for school violence to disappear or decline, it is also necessary to strengthen pedagogical services and school psychology networks. Professional-based signalling systems, sensitivity sessions and training would be needed. This is not the first time you've heard that the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers proposed an 11-point action plan against school violence at the end of last year. At first, it seemed like there was a government sense. László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, responded constructively. For example, he suggested reviewing school policy, strengthening school psychology and starting to examine, analyse and jointly deal with the wider background of school conflicts. In the end, however, the Fidesz government decided to favour the pro-police pretences and the well-sounding lozunges, but convince me that they are not. I stress that, in the opinion of experts, violence-only measures and a retortion-oriented approach alone do not solve the problem of school violence. Of course, there is a question of whether this law was born to be implemented at all, and I hope it is not, or if it is a polish, since there are so many unclear questions about how serious they are. Think about the costs of building a school-guarding system in the five hundred institutions indicated. Have you done any studies on this? Continuous schoolkeeping cannot be carried out by a single person. If this is taken seriously, there is a need to talk about the application of more than one person per institution. If you really want to film the classrooms in a complete network, the costs will be astronomical. Then each school warden will need an operational room in each institution concerned. These are also cost-effective again. I didn't see any of that. I didn't even talk about the expected work organisation anomalies at the time. The schoolkeeper's employer is the police body, and it is clear from the law that the person responsible for the educational work at the school will not be able to instruct the schoolkeeper. But there's even a question of school leaders giving orders to the school warden. This can create an educationally absurd situation. In addition, the schoolmaster's procedure may conflict with the educational programme adopted at school. This also presents systemic regulatory problems. The continuous training of the school guards was not clear either. Please tell me about this. According to the law, he has to take a successful examination of pedagogy and child psychology, but the depth and knowledge required of him were not detailed. In addition, they have to carry out re-examinations only every five years, and they only have to account for legislative changes and the application of coercive instruments. Professionals believe that exams should take place more frequently, and the expansion of pedagogical and psychological knowledge should also be part of the accounting process. At the same time, however, the law does not exclude that ad Absurdum should be carried out with private companies. I hope this isn't about another hole in the state budget. The question arises as to why this is happening. Is that why you're just trying to solve the school violence problem by law enforcement? Is that why they put school guards in educational institutions who can do self-doubt in any way, even against school leadership? Because no one can seriously think that lowering the age of criminality will solve the problem of school violence. I repeat, what I said once before: the aggressiveness of a 12-year-old child with limited discretion is not hindered by family punishment or police presence. Therefore, we suggest that you do not make an unfulfilled and bad law. Think again about these questions. I ask you to listen to the experts, study the literature, and there is plenty of international experience. Please examine the elements of the peaceful school programme that has already been developed and please include it in the bill. You probably don't know him, but if so, my fellow Member has already spoken about Zoltán Pokorni, Lajos Aáry-Tamás's investigation, which was ordered by the Minister of that time by violence in the press of his time. The extremely detailed and professional study material clearly outlines the development of a national anti-violence strategy, to which schools were constantly joining at the time, so there was a positive feedback. There are, of course, good examples and ideas. I'm really asking you to take these. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-04-113	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, head speaker of DK, please.
u2020-06-04-114	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I have to start with what Congressman Nacha started. Indeed, it is worth recalling that during the most difficult period of the coronal virus epidemic, schools and educators have done superhuman work, when, in spite of decades of government failure, they have tried to put in place, operate a system of distance learning, which has not otherwise been the case before, and for which, unfortunately, they have failed to provide adequate professional support and preparation in peace times. I also agree with Mrs Zita Gurmai that, of course, we also owe thanks to the parents, who were very often the subject of suffering, that children had to solve a series of tasks at home without adequate support and proper assistance. I think that this story is worth bringing here now, other than, of course, reminding you of the merits of teachers before teacher's day is always a good and proper thing, because it shows that this education system deserves better than the education management you are getting today. Unfortunately, this bill also proves this, my fellow Members, that the ability to face the real situation in the education government is lacking and to look for real answers to the problems, which, by the way, are not necessarily fresh, very often very old. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for talking not only about the good, but also about the problematic parts of the bill, even if he did not explain the whole point of the problem everywhere. But let me start with what we agree on. This must be the case for national legislation. We are all in a fortunate position here in Parliament to follow up, in fact, on the work of the committee on nationalities, on the work that is ongoing in the development of the system of ethnic institutions, and we can thank both the President of the Commission and the advocates for their continued involvement in this work, and we can also thank the government for their positive response to initiatives from here, unlike many other social groups. [[18.40]] We will, of course, be curious to know that the Member and the spokeswoman fully agree with this proposal, but this is certainly a good proposal, and it seems to be improving national education, and I am also aware that this is fundamentally in line with the requests made by representatives of nationalities. It's a one-sided situation in terms of free textbook supply. You may remember that we started this program when we governed it, but we provided it to children in need, because we said that the first thing we should do is give a free textbook to those who have a problem with it financially; for the children of Mr. Secretary of State, if there are, and for my child, we can buy the textbook. The problem, Mr Secretary of State, which is usually a problem with socialism, is that if it is free and uniform, it is also poor quality. The fact is, by eliminating the professional competition from the textbook system in exchange for free, you have achieved a significant deterioration in the quality of textbooks in every sense. Today at school, I know that a large proportion of teachers do not normally use textbooks provided by you for free, but textbooks that have been used to, which are of good quality, and which have been developed by textbook writers and publishers on the basis of many years' experience. I can also say that, if you like, there is also under-the- counter knowledge in the Hungarian public education system, and this is also a characteristic of socialism. I will be happy to see if you can create the miracle that there will be a free, high-quality and optional textbook range for everyone. But you're doing the first of these, and you're not doing the other two. And it's not right. I think that this is more damaging than providing textbooks to the wealthy for free. Once again, I'm not against free textbook care, I'm against the cost of this textbook phalanster. This is not good, Mr. Secretary. The second question you mentioned, but perhaps you didn't fully explain the background, is access to free education, and in particular access to art education for the sake of simplicity. 'Cause it's true that you guys have a different way of bringing this back in the law, but you've lost the underprivileged kids. Only children with special educational needs and multiple underprivileged children are now included in the circle for whom this kind of education is guaranteed free. And that is a problem, because, of course, we know that there are many more disadvantaged children under the rules. For them, it is a problem not to go into it, essentially, to have a tuition obligation. It is important to bring them into the education system because the criteria for a cumulative disadvantage are relatively strict. We should also say, for the sake of fairness, that the concerns that autistic children may be left out of this supported circle are not thorough, since children with special educational needs are included in both autistic and long-term illness. There is therefore no problem from this point of view; the problem is with a large group of disadvantaged children who are left out of it. He says, Minister of State, that the reason why it is necessary is that, from here on, the system of teacher ratings is regulated by a government regulation, because teacher training is so often changing that it is necessary to adapt the annex to the law. Mr Secretary of State, this is a confession to the fact that you've been messing with teacher training for the last ten years. This is a confession to the fact that they are unable to maintain a system that should not be followed by continuous modifications. In addition, in a situation where you are constantly concealing the data of a teacher's shortage, we can only conclude indirectly, for example, from the questionnaire of competence assessment, what a shortage of specialist teachers in Hungarian public education is, and these numbers are catastrophic, by the way; in this situation, I am sorry, Mr. Secretary, but there is no confidence that the government does not want to use this mandate to start from here on instead of creating a teacher's education that is stable and which is attractive to students, and to say the point, instead of giving the schools salaries that make it worthwhile for young people to go to the teacher's career, you will try to make a fine statement about the qualification requirements in the regulation. a targeted change to address the lack of skilled teachers. The problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that just because they are authorised in the regulation, they will not yet be able to teach. That's the problem. It is possible to trick with the regulation, and I am taking advantage of the suspicion that you would unfortunately like to use this regulation. By the way, Congressman Nacsa, who, for some reason, has left the room, I would like to point out that the number that he says is to include those who have retired in ten years or eight years between 2002 and 2010. But the fact is, fellow Members, that teachers have been retiring ever since. What you can do is you can't show this, but it won't help solve the problem. The big difference is, in our time, there was enough specialized educators in schools, and now there isn't. It's a big difference, and it's really bad for the education system, and magic with numbers doesn't do much for the education system. What is the situation, I would also like to say briefly. Unlike Mrs Gurmai, I would not go to the bill that we are going to discuss next week, although it is a legislative nonsense in its own way that the government split this bill in half and present its part of the Public Education Act here. Here, Parliament essentially gives a Bianko authority, legally speaking, for sure. We know what will be in it, because the other bill has already been tabled, but it is not by accident that the debate is always in this direction, because the two proposals are obviously worth discussing. Now they're telling us to make room for the school guard in the Public Education Act, and then someday we'll find out what that school guard is doing. Let us add that this is not right from a legislative point of view, from a professional point of view. But now let's talk about what this means from the point of view of the educational and school management system, if it is already in the Public Education Act. Obviously, there is no argument between us that violence has no place in school in any way. There's no argument between us. There is no debate between us about the need for more effective, effective action. At the time, Mr Secretary of State had a proper profession, but we had this debate, who had been sitting here in Parliament before 2010, at times, and very often heard from the opposition at the time that there was violence in schools because there was a cursed, liberal, modernist course in the education system, and this is the result. Now, this House, since 2010, there has been no sign of modernism or liberalism in education, and nothing more modern than Bálint Homan, and yet there is school violence! What a miracle! Because these political voodoos, these political texts, are not helping to solve the problem. If you remember, and Mrs Gurmai Zita has already reminded you of this, then the government took this problem seriously. We have asked the Commissioner for Educational Rights, who is very few of the still existing actors in education, respected from all sides of the political trenches, to carry out a very serious investigation, and, by the way, the Ministry has also provided significant funding for this. Then a detailed report was produced, which presented the phenomenon and, on the other hand, took the need and formulated a number of measures to create a strategy against national school violence that addresses the problem in a complex way. You're indebted to me. That's what hasn't been born in ten years. For some time, Commissioner repeated this demand at various lectures and conferences, and since then he has dropped it. But it is still the case today that this is a very serious, very complex problem, which requires a complex solution. I am pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that there is an intention to take other measures, but I do not see them, nor do I see the concept on which this measure is taken. [[18.50]] I think we should agree on a fundamental issue, at least that's what we think: we deal with pedagogical problems through pedagogical means, we treat criminals by police means. Students aren't criminals. The students are at school to raise them. Our job is to create schools that can do that. When the government wants to send police or quasi-police officers to school, it's a confession to the fact that you're downplayed in the fight against school violence. This is a confession to the fact that they are unable to address this problem through pedagogical tools within the educational system. The fact is, I told you that very little data is being released, but for example, in 2018 there was an accidental lack of attention, and some data about the lack of teachers, more specifically the shortage of professionals, were leaked: at that time, there were 420 unfulfilled teaching posts and 72 vacant school psychology jobs, this was not a full survey, because the schools did not respond fully. The fact is, Mr Secretary, that we do not have the pedagogical, professional and financial conditions for combating school violence in school today. That's what we should focus on, that's what we should spend the money on, that's what the government should be paying attention to. We don't need policemen in schools, we need more school psychologists, more medical teachers, more mental health professionals, more social workers. It takes more freedom for teachers to work and not to meet stupid administrative requirements. Schools need more freedom to choose appropriate pedagogical methods that are effective among the students. And we need more pay, more respect for teachers, so that the best go on this field, so that young people can go on this field, and the profession doesn't get old. That's what you can do to fight school violence, that's what you can do to help. I am very sorry that you do not face this real challenge, but instead I think that you are taking measures that are fundamentally ineffective or harmful in its impact. In summary, I can therefore say that, unfortunately, this amendment to the Public Education Act contains only traces of professional elements and eligible measures, in general, a document of a drifting education policy that does not understand what is happening in education and does not dare to take any meaningful action to solve the problems. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-115	Thank you very much. And now, the lead speaker of the LMP, Mr Péter Ungár, may join us, thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-116	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start with part of this amendment of the law. What my fellow Member Arató has already mentioned is a positive thing that SNI students can participate in free art education, art therapy is one of the most important and newly used ways of SNI education. There was a very incomprehensible back and forth correspondence with the EMMI Parliamentary Department on my part, because at the beginning it appeared that the disadvantaged students would get out of it, and only the cumulative disadvantages would remain in it, as did my fellow Member, Arató. I got an answer today from the EMMI in writing about this, and I still don't understand what's going on. I may not understand because of the high school system under Minister Hiller, because they didn't teach me enough Hungarian to read. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But hopefully that's not the case, so I'd appreciate it if you'd give it to me orally. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] that at that time disadvantaged students will also remain, and that this free art education will not only apply to those with a cumulative set of disadvantaged students. I am very pleased that the education government is now dealing with SNI education at all, and this has been very little dealt with in recent years. The fact is that there is a very strong duality in this area in Hungary: one of them is that there is a request or a directive, which the European Union otherwise expects, that there should be as much integrated education in Hungary as possible when the child's condition makes this possible, and at the same time there is no condition for integrated education in more than two thirds of the counties in Hungary. There are a lot of educational institutions in which the Secretary of State knows for sure, and in his articles of incorporation, he accepts SNI students, even in more detail, there is no specific condition for this, there is no rest room, and let us not talk about how many pedagogical assistants, let us say how many specific jobs there are in such a school, because the answer is, as often as possible, zero. The fact is that integrated education would be a very good thing, but at the moment, integrated education actually means that SNI students will be put into mainstream education without any extra help, and then these children have been about this before, in the previous session a lot of times private students of a debate, or because this status has since been renamed from public education in a different way. I would therefore like to say that art education is a good step forward, but I would ask the State Secretary to pay a little more attention to the real process that is taking place in Hungary in the area of SNI education. My fellow Member, Mr Arató, also mentioned that the last one, I believe, was eight years old when the data concerning the lack of a medical teacher in Hungarian education. Now I don't want to tell you that over the last three years, I think you've had to go through these pages of his book Kafka A trial to get any data on how many medical teachers work in a study district. By the way, I would like to tell the Secretary of State that if I have used this speech as a bit of a complaint box, and, like my fellow Member, Mr Arató, in other cases, it was the same legal formula to stop asking the EMMI for data, and then they say that the school district owns the data, and then the district says that he does not store such data, and we ask the Klebelsberg Center, so KLIK, and then KLIK says that EMMI can publish it. This is Hungarian bureaucracy in one sentence, so that it can be found that, for example, in a county, let's say I ask a question about how many medical teachers and medical teachers are employed in Vas county. While the man gets an answer, it's two or three years, and by then, the data is three years old. So if you could do something about that, if we had the chance to talk like this, it would be perfect. The thing is, back to SNI education, anything can be made free of charge, any form of education, and it's a good thing, but until the people who do this education are paid for, we're not actually going to achieve the desired result. In Hungary, medical educators are so underpaid that eight out of ten medical educators are located on the private market, not in the public system, based on a survey of the institutions that trained medical educators themselves. If he could do the two somehow mixed, and the legal structure of this would be formed, it would also be a step forward, as a significant part of the teachers of medicine would rather go into private life, because he simply cannot make a living from the salary he receives to do this job in the state. And the salary of medical pedagogical assistants is even more dramatic. In the Hungarian Nation, it appeared that there are more and more medical pedagogical assistants. I am very pleased that the Hungarian Nation has access to this data, which I have just mentioned, but I would be very happy to hear it from other organs, or perhaps otherwise. There are two other things I think are important. One is that there is another method in the field of SNI education, besides art therapy, and take this into account, please, if this amendment has already worked, which is similar and has now gained a great deal of space in this education, and it is perhaps even more expensive to pay for it with private money, it is usually the range of therapies associated with the animal, such as horse therapy, the most common way of doing so. By the way, there was an EMMI program for horse therapy in SNI education, but these are also things that it would be nice to get free of charge for the diagnosis. The other thing that must be said, and I hope that this too will be heard, is that many have also blamed for facilitating the transfer from unintegrated education to integrated education. Many say that the reason why the diagnosis is no longer required by the parent alone is that it is the most common in a spectrum disorder such as autism, even if, for example, the child can be perfectly inserted into an integrated education, because it is simply limited by the diagnosis itself, and the system is not so flexible that the parent does not think that he can then choose a suitable school compared to the changing state of his child. Honestly, I don't know exactly what kind of modification of the law is needed to get this flexibility into the system, because I understand that if such a diagnosis is made, then it has different requirements for testing and other areas, but because the essence of development pedagogy itself is that development should take place and be better integrated, that if it were successful, and if that flexibility were in it, I think it would be good for everyone, too, for teachers. So, overall, I can say that the freeness of art education is a forward-looking part, and I am glad that you are dealing with this issue, but I think that there are still a lot of things that you can deal with in the area of SNI education. Thank you very much. [[19.00]]
u2020-06-04-117	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence Tordai, lead speaker for the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-118	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Mr. Secretary. Thus, as teachers approached Teacher's Day, they hoped that if the government had already dealt with the issue of education, they might receive some kind of recognition, especially for their very hard, very creative and nervous work over the past few years, but they could even hope to make up for the lack of financial appreciation of the past years in some way. Compared to that, they got school police on their backs. And not to be taken away from the bill that there are useful technical details, forward-looking amendments, but the most important part is that he is trying to tackle the problem of school violence with a completely inappropriate instrument. And as we all see it, we all say that it is not professionally suitable to deal with the problem as a tool of the school police, but at the same time we also notice that it fits very well into the current communication campaign of Fidesz, the victim-faulting, exclusional, often racist-sounding campaign. We agree perfectly that there is no room for violence in school, violence against teachers or violence between students, but I go on, otherwise there is no room for violence in any part of society. And if the government wants to reduce the intensity of school violence, then it might be worth starting with the fact that it starts with itself in society as a whole and if it is better, and reduces the presence of violence in government communication and action. This is obviously gonna be hard. For the past ten years, Viktor Orbán's successive governments have been known to fight and fight against something constantly. In better cases, they are imaginary, imaginary enemies, in a slightly less good case, remote, abstract institutions or persons to whom Viktor Orbán and his government can do no harm. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But as we progressed in time, and more and more layers of the social crisis became clear to more and more people, and the tensions thus accumulated were once again being dealt with by means of communication, Fidesz became the target of this politically managed, violent campaign, which is more and more tangible, living with us, as part of Hungarian society. And at the beginning of this year, Fidesz started a campaign like this when he debated court judgments when he took positions against children who were deprived of the possibility of normal, high-quality education. Although the dynamics of this campaign have been blocked by the coronal virus epidemic, it seems that it has not been able to end it, and now, as the first wave of the plague is in a state of crisis, it seems that they will return to this campaign. This would be very sad, and it would be good if they had actually reached the point of realising a real real problem, they would have tried to deal with it with the right professional skills or, failing that, with the consultation of persons and organisations with professional skills. Obviously, the ultimate point of school violence is criminalizing, punishing, and the school police are no good for anything else. One step back, it is certain that strengthening the pedagogical toolbox would be very useful. I'm sure if teachers, educators, school staff were to receive trainings, sensitivity, trainings that would prepare them for this type of situation, we would be further ahead. It is also certain that if pedagogical assistants, social workers, school psychologists were to help educators, we would be moving forward again. I will go further, not only have a pedagogical toolbox, but also a policy toolbox: if the whole education system is finally managed in its proper place. Let's just say that we could start by having a ministry of education, continue by paying teachers fairly, as they otherwise committed five years ago, and then remedy the shortage of workers, which could trigger further conflicts or make them more difficult to deal with. It might be possible to talk about sitting down with trade unions, seeing them as partners, and making proposals that they have proactively formulated years before, taking into account and implementing them in proportion to their strength and talent. And then we could take another step backwards, not only in terms of strict policy, not only in terms of budgetary policy, but also in terms of the whole nature and quality of governance, and they could take back from this sword-cracking style, from this stupid, aggressive, macho pace, from this militarising tone, where listening to the Prime Minister and his ministers, the secretary of state, the feeling that only the successful one who is strong and the strong one who can strike there is more and more. And when we are constantly faced with various verbal forms of violence in government communication and in the communication of government parties, we may be less surprised that violence is so widespread in society and within this school. So it would be good to start this whole issue with a big, deep and honest self-examination, and obviously not a Secretary of State should lead by allowing so much positive favoritism, but the decisive factors of the government and, above all, the Prime Minister. So we would be very happy to support any meaningful and effective efforts to reduce school violence. This current school police campaign, on the other hand, cannot be considered as such in the least, and I am therefore obliged, on behalf of the Dialogue, to indicate that we cannot support their proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-119	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I salute my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the ethnic advocate who has applied in writing. Erika Kissné Köles is an ethnic advocate!
u2020-06-04-120	Hvala za besedo, Gospod Predsednik. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary grants fundamental rights to all without discrimination, including language, religion, political or other opinions, by national or social origins, according to the Fundamental Law. In addition to other fundamental rights, every Hungarian citizen has the right to culture and to acquire knowledge. This right is granted by the State through free and compulsory basic secondary education available to all, and by higher education accessible to all on the basis of its capabilities. National minority communities living in Hungary also have the right to culture, which we can extend to their right to culture in accordance with the law on the rights of nationalities. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law Article 2 of the Act states that nationalities living in Hungary have the right to teach their mother tongue, which is also lived by most nationalities, from kindergarten to university six Hungarian nationalities have an institution network, not just German nationality. In Hungary, there are some 1,500 institutions in which ethnic education and education are carried out under the law in one of the educational forms provided: native language, bilingual or mother tongue, which has also allowed supplementary minority language education since 1993. In the Public Education Act, as amended in 2016, additional ethnic language education was completed by classification among the basic tasks of public education. On ethnic cultures, we provide our children of ethnic origin with additional knowledge of their own ethnic group through the subject of ethnicism. [[19.10]] National education and education are key. Its aims and tasks are to improve the awareness, linguistic and cultural identity of children, pupils, students of ethnic origin, and the practical application of bilingualism, to consciously develop the needs and skills of self-cultivation in the language of nationality, and to develop the language and language culture of nationality. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is of the utmost importance of ethnic education and the T/10742. CXC 2011 on national public education. It requested that it be linked to the debate on the bill because of the nationalities aspects of the draft law amending the law. The legislation naturally looks at issues of ethnic public education, taking into account the need for public education from national maintenance, educators, experts, to ensure effective and modern education and education of nationality. In Hungary today, national minority education education is conducted by the schools that undertake ethnic education-education in the maintenance of the Klebelsberg Institution, but national and local minority self-governments, church-owned institution-supporters and foundations are also maintained. The amendments to national education that emerge in this bill will facilitate and strengthen the possibility of a uniform application of the law in our institutions with different reservations and ethnic public education. We expect the provisions of the Public Education Act on nationalities to be in line with the provisions of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities before this House. This bill 1. §2 of the Act on National Public Education is added as a new element. It is also important for ethnic institutions to have effective and effective teaching, and to be able to operate safely without violence in order to succeed in educating. This may be facilitated by this new element, if not completely resolved. Institutionalised education on the acquisition of professional qualifications is also part of the public education system by law, and this is Article 2. In the new phase of the article, he will be re-evidenced. We value the 3rd priority. The amendments set out in Section 2 of this Annex. Article 4 of the National Public Education Act. Section 2 of the Act adds to our satisfaction with point (w) of the basic tasks of public education, primary art education of nationality, point (x), the possibility of supplementary education in kindergartens of nationality. For many years, we have noticed that in our time, the transfer of self-identity to the parents' house is significantly complemented by the education of national children's kindergartens. Not only does it have a prominent role in transferring the language of nationality, but it also plays a key role in shaping identity and belonging to the ethnic community. The ethnic kindergarten education communities carry out valuable work in order to practice and maintain ethnic traditions, contribute to the worthy and beautiful holding of the celebrations of ethnic communities, strengthen the presence of nationality in a mixedly populated community. For Bulgarian, Greek and Polish nationalities, the possibility of creating a long-awaited development, namely an additional nationality kindergarten, is fulfilled. Emphasis should be placed on ethnic content in pedagogical programmes based on the guidelines of national education and education and the guidelines of NAT's framework curricula. Along the lines of well-developed institutional programmes, our institutions can guarantee the effectiveness of the form of national education and education. Therefore, point 4 is replaced by the following: As set out in paragraph 5 of Section 5 of this Article, the framework teaching plans shall also be drawn up with great attention. Unfortunately, in the new NAT we know, ethnic content has been very weak, which must be well replaced by additional basic documents. Article 10 § 2 provides for the compilation of pedagogical programmes, to which particular attention must therefore be paid by nationalities. The bill is 13. §2 of the Treaty has a significant role to play in the definition of recruitment zones, ensuring that the right of agreement of the national authorities continues to be exercised. The definition of the recruitment area of the institutions in several cases leads to disagreement between the parents of the school-age children of different settlements, sometimes among the leaders of some municipalities. It is therefore to be welcomed that, in the absence of a local minority self-government, the competent regional self-government can also form an opinion on the matter concerned. The bill is 19. §2 of the Act decides on the requirement for teachers to continue training, does not mention the further education of ethnic teachers in the mother country, but our ethnic teachers want to continue to live on this basis on the basis of their cooperation agreements in the educational, scientific and cultural field between the countries. The bill is 22. §2 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities clarifies the conditions governing the right to vote and vote of national minority organisations in the case of institutions involved in the education of nationalities. The good functioning of our public education, a good relationship between ethnic communities and training institutions, a reassuring assurance for the educational and educational community that the National Public Education Act 83. Before deciding on the procedures set out in paragraph 3 of Section 3, it shall seek the opinion of the nationalities. The bill is 25. §2 of the Act provides for the provision of free textbooks. The annual central budget shall provide the amount of support that can be taken into account per student to ensure free textbook provision. In the case of ethnic textbooks, it is more difficult to manage this because of the small number of copies. These textbooks are significantly more expensive due to the low number of copies. Nationality school maintainers are confident that the amount of textbook support per student can provide real cost costs in accordance with the National Rights Act as an application for the scope of the law. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomes the proposals for amendments to the bill concerning nationality public education. The state-of-the-art and effective functioning of public education is not only a measure of the development of a society, but also of its future. It is important for all of us to have a good background in law, a well-equipped teacher in our kindergartens and schools dedicated to the challenges of time, with a high level of professional knowledge, to raise, educate and love our children in a reassuring way. There can't be a thousand scraps in raising children. There can't be one life that's ruined. I would also like to thank the ethnic educators myself, but all my teachers not only for the tasks they have undertaken and performed over the past period, but also for the work of teachers in general, since we all know that it is not a small effort to carry out this task today. To discuss the bill, it serves the future of all our children, so I wish the Honourable Parliament and the State Secretary for Public Education further good work. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-04-121	Thank you very much, Mrs Erika Kissné Köles. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman László Horváth, Fidesz.
u2020-06-04-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to make a semantic or stylish comment. Mr Ander Balázs, my fellow Member and Gergely Arató also referred to the fact that he had a decent profession before his Membership, and Mr Secretary of State had a decent profession. I'd like to ask you not to do that. Let's not pretend that what we're doing right now isn't fair. Let's not distinguish politics like this. I had a degree that I could teach with, by the way. I've also taught, I've also tried to honor my knowledge, and I've tried to do this job, and I've tried to do it with honor, my knowledge and my abilities. I would just like to ask that we pay attention to this in this House, by the way. [[19.20]] The other thing is that so far the speeches have shown that preparedness can make you confident, and that unpreparedness can only increase the courage, which, by the way, tends to wear out in accusations. We have seen examples of both of the speeches that have been made, but I believe that, in spite of the many critical comments that have been made, there are results of this debate today, because there are points of agreement. We have not yet heard this from the parties in Parliament's horseshoe. The point of agreement is that there is no room for violence in school. Everything else can only be said if we can enforce it, because it is also a point of agreement, if I understand correctly, that all teachers and students are entitled to human dignity in school. It is also a point of agreement that every teacher and every student in the school has the right to safety. It is also a point of agreement, as I understand it, that every teacher and every student has the right to a relaxed job and the right to a calm learning, and every family has the right to have their child safe, or to a family member, if the teacher and school helper can keep him safe, that is also his right. If these memoranda are in place, we have made great progress, because the past period, the very serious abuse of teachers over the past years and decades, is the case that I do not remember standing up for opposition parties or for one of the trade unions, and he would have said that this is now intolerable and that you should stop now. I am very pleased with the speech by Mr Ander Balázs, because we have also seen that Jobbik's journey so far is characterised not only by pitfalls and dead ends, but perhaps even by progress, because now they are looking for the root of the problem, they do not want to talk about symptomatic treatments, and they are talking about psychology and pedagogy, which is otherwise correct. I'm saying this is a positive shift, because I remember that I personally witnessed that in 2011, the recipe was not the school or modern pedagogy, but the boots and intimidation. I'm glad you've come this far in this story, because we can speak intelligently, I think. And what makes it difficult, which is next, I think is a common challenge for us. My fellow harvester also said that this is an old problem, and almost everyone pointed out that it is necessary to get to the root of the problem. The fact is that the root of the problem in relation to violence, I would add, most of their representatives focused their speech on this first paragraph, there were some refreshing exceptions not in school. If we want to treat it in school and only treat it in school, the root of which is not in school, then we will have different solutions. It must be said that the problem of school violence is not at school, that the teacher does not have the key to the solution and the magic rod, the root of the problem and the root of violence is in the family and in the immediate environment, and from there comes the violent student, student, the model, the life strategy or the model of problem management that he would like to implement at school. We could talk about this, and maybe we could come up with a public agreement here again, so that instead of throwing this whole problem management at the school, and of course at the government, because it's all about everything, it's about everything, we could really face this question, because then we should say the truth. It is true that one of these issues, which we should honestly face, is where we have come from in terms of the results of integrated education and the forced integration that, I believe, has failed a lot today, we are only hearing about failures. But for some reason, as a mantra, as an EU mantra constantly repeating this, we are rushing into, by the way, unconscionably producing statistics that still says that this kind of integrated education, where everyone is locked up with everyone without a chance to catch up...I agree with Congressman Ungar, I have also spoken to medical teachers, they have confirmed many things that he says, but also that in large classes, where the number of people to be integrated exceeds the minimum that there is even a chance of integration, this is already a failed story. That's what we're doing, and that's what the pedagogy does, is that in an honest way, it says that if I mix the poor with a large number of good people and even push them in even more, then they catch up with the worse ones, and the weaker ones get stronger, but the practice doesn't show that. Practice shows that with such forced integration, the weaker will not be stronger, and good cannot go forward. This is a good time to at least start thinking about it, and the thing is that although Congressman Torda is not here, [[Péter Ungár: But he's here, he's up there!]] Yeah, he's up there, and I'm sorry, and I apologize from here, too, so the thing is, of course, he had one legitimate suggestion that everyone should start non-violence on their own. You are no exception to this, and your stunts and violent stunts in Parliament's horseshoe are no exception, but we agree that non-violence should be a first for everyone. In the context of the consultation, I would like to say that, of course, we can talk about a problem confidently and loudly, but it is good to listen to the people involved. To your honor, you brought Gyöngyöspata here, by the way, at the level of reference, that at least you were gone, if not more than two hours or three, but you were there. [[19.30]] There's time for a photo shoot. I regret that there was no time for him to talk to teachers who were victims of such acts of violence, who carried this around for years, and, of course, we see the tip of the iceberg, and we agree on that because no one is willing to talk about it. The educator is obviously experiencing this as a professional failure, but there is also someone who is afraid that if I speak of this from my own experience, there will be a further retaliation, and if you talk about it, there will be no one to protect him from the consequences and further aggression. And here, in this bill, the author speaks of the need for greater protection of teachers. I think we can agree on that, because otherwise, in the position of a teacher who is humiliated, intimidated or, where appropriate, beaten in school class or has a rope thrown around his neck, and then put it all out on social media, and there you'll see I don't know how many ten thousand people, this teacher's action is a total knock-off. The fact is that when we talk about the school guard, let me note that Zita Gurmai spoke all along about a bill that has not yet been tabled before us, but 80 percent of the speech was about a bill that will be discussed next week, which, by the way, sets out detailed provisions and detailed proposals on the issues on which you have targeted. But if we agree that the educator should have human dignity, if the teacher and the student should have safety, if both should have quiet work and quiet learning, then the fact is that there must be restraint. There must be a deterrent, and there must be a possibility that if aggression appears, it may require rapid, strong and effective action. There's this old saying that the soul of everything is in order. Maybe the reason there's so much unsoul in this world is because the order is falling apart. And I would like to suggest that you do not associate order with dictatorship immediately, the two are not equivalent, but order must be made in different places. And in school, if there's no order and violence takes its place, there's no teaching or learning there. And that school and the institution where you can't teach or study is no longer a school. That's something else. So the soul of everything is in order. The teacher, by the way... also shows the mess that we have to talk about something like this today, which is what we should talk about in these times. A few generations ago, and even in my generation, the question of whether a teacher could be threatened or humiliated was not a question. That couldn't have been a question. The thing is, of course, all teachers didn't deserve our approval, but respect was due to all teachers. Therefore, I believe that the high-level school guard also has a right to be held back from violence. It's not criminalisation. It's prevention. It must be held back, if it must be feared, and if it is necessary, it cannot be allowed to destroy teachers in front of the world. Then we'll have to intervene. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-04-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Péter Ungár, Member LMP.
u2020-06-04-124	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to comment, but I was encouraged to comment by my fellow Member, so I must now. I think integration is not a miracle weapon, like if, for example, Mr. Secretary Philip was sitting here, I would say that ejection is not a miracle weapon, which is always a good weapon. These are principles, and integration is, of course, not good if it is used either on an ethnic basis or on another basis for children who are excluded from public education, go to therapeutic pedagogy, and then you can tell what is really happening in rural Hungary in a... because I have been in some of these, know this precisely by everyone, but it is a symbol of the bad functioning of the system that happens. They're misusing the entire pedagogical system. What happens there takes away the opportunity and the resources from whom the therapeutic pedagogical system is really invented, where a specific diagnosis is used to enter the number of children defined by the school district in connection with integration. It's been told what it's like, it's in the charter, and it can get into it. What I'm talking about is that, on the other hand, the conditions under which these children are supposed to get into school I told them about the break room, but I could say that in visually impaired children, the physical conditions of this, or a thousand such examples, are not there. So integration is just one of the problems that my fellow Member has said. The other problem is that I understand the financial conditions of the pay conditions that the medical teachers and the specialists have here, and the hardware conditions do not exist. The fact that children in Hungary who are in a socially worse environment are so distracted by public education that they are often transferred to medical education is the problem that should be discussed, and this is not the argument against integration. I think we should split this up here, because if we talk about it all the time, we will never be able to find a common denominator between integrated education and SNI education.
u2020-06-04-125	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Arató, DK.
u2020-06-04-126	Thank you very much. I was also inspired by the voice of the congressman. If you allow me, let me begin by saying that I think that if politicians have a tendency to self-irony, it does not reduce the authority of this profession, but rather increases it, but we see it differently. Of course, I wouldn't have asked for the floor. What I asked for was two thoughts. The first of these is that the Member says that the solution to the problems cannot be passed on to the school alone. Of course! But I'm also saying that you can't just blame the family. That's not the answer, to put it very simply, for example, because the child can't help what kind of family he's born into. What we should do here together is that a social system, and of course it's not just a problem of education, but we should create a social system and an education system that also offers the child who, for some reason, comes from a troubled family. I can see that you are nodding, and I am glad of that, because then there is a common goal, in which we are debating what is the right instrument, but I think that this debate will be carried out abundantly next week. I believe that the fortunate condition is that, if there is a way to establish a system of education, a social system, a cooperation between families that can really help and we see good examples of this, perhaps Mr Ander Balázs, but there are good examples elsewhere, but these are not, in my view, the direction of administrative procedures, and are not the direction of police measures. On the other hand, on integration, we know that this is a very long-standing debate and that it leads very far, and we understand a lot about it, but let me tell the Member that perhaps we are mixing concepts here, or that we do not always use concepts the same way. When a lot of people are talking about segregation being outrageous and unacceptable, they are talking about the type of segregation that, based on their skin color and social status, differentiates and places children into different types of school, or even on different floors, in order to mention the specific pearl patai example. And how it was now in this case would probably be a long debate, and we probably don't have to do it here. I would like to tell Mr President in silence that many of us have informed Gyöngyöspata in many ways, but only those affected do not tell you this because they are afraid that they will be retorted if they speak to opposition representatives. [[19.40]] And I also spoke to teachers on Gyöngyöspatán, for example. I'll tell you, but of course I won't tell you who or how, because I don't want them to get hurt. So, turning back to this case, I would just like to say that we may agree that it is unfortunate that someone's skin color alone or because of their social situation is at a disadvantage. From then on, this is a very important debate on education policy and professionalism, which leads very far to how much integration needs to be pushed, how much social groups need to be mixed up. You say, and I'm sure that maybe you didn't think so, or you didn't think that good children with bad abilities shouldn't be sent to school. That's not what you're thinking. Every school has some or two and fives, like a school, a well-functioning school. I'm saying it was probably a bad word, and I don't even want to ride it. I would just like to point out that, for example, how selective an education system should be is a very serious policy debate. It must also be thought that there is a good selective education system, or it is good to have early selection. For example, I think that it is not good, and the good thing is that there is a subsequent selection in the education system, and that it is necessary to create the pedagogical conditions for working effectively in a mixed group in many ways, in terms of skills and social backgrounds, and we have seen good examples of this, that we may have seen bad examples when we have failed, and I acknowledge that. I would just like to say that I think this is an existing debate that needs to be fought on a professional level. I would protect all of us from creating a mood against integration, or against social balancing education, in general, against equal opportunities for education. I don't think that's gonna get far. That's not the reason for the problems. The reason for these problems, and I agree with Mr President, is that the problem is that the social environment has changed, that is not a question. Let's say, in the last thirty to forty years, the economic system has changed in many ways, the political environment has changed, and the media world and the world of information is quite different today. The question is, how do we find answers to that? I say, for example, that we should not look backwards and wonder what made the educational system good at that time a hundred years ago or fifty years ago, or it is not only worth dealing with, it is not bad to know, but to think about what will make this educational system good in 50 years' time, but I accept that there are those who rely more on tradition, rather on modernity. All I'm suggesting is that we assume kindness from each other on this issue. That's what I'm suggesting, that's what's driving this thing forward, and without any hurtful intention, how can I say, of course, that the other one can be picked on by booting, but should I say now that you want to bring handcuffs and batons to school as a discipline or pedagogical tool? So, I suggest that these are important problems, we agree on that; what we are debating is whether this kind of treatment is effective. We do not think so, but this is a policy issue, and I do not suggest, nor do I wish to question, anyone's decency in this matter, even their preparedness. We see this thing differently, that's the case.
u2020-06-04-127	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2020-06-04-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Horváth! Then let me fall into the sin of speaking, let us continue with the subject. Aronson wrote in his book "The Social Being," he refers to a school principal in Texas, that although it can be colluded with force, the power of law can force black and white children, but it can no longer be arranged by the power of the law to enjoy this union. And if this integration is badly carried through, if we don't have the conditions that I was talking about here at the beginning, then this will be the white flight, who can, the escape and the situation, and regardless of color, let's say, from the young bush fighters of the outside, from what they are doing at school, where they really should learn, where they should grow in morals, in spirituals, in any way, then the parents who can escape their children will. Here would be the responsibility of the state, just to make things clear here, there is a huge responsibility for the state, social educator, social worker, school psychologist, and it could be classified from the training of teachers to the point where they really value teachers, and do not look at them as a public utility ubermensch, who will do what everyone would expect of him for the salary he receives, and in addition to educating and educating, he will actually solve integration problems. This isn't gonna work. It's as simple as that. There must always be a refreshing example, a refreshing exception, you can bring it up, I said, I also referred to such a school, the method of which is already applied by about a hundred other institutions here in Hungary, but if we look at the needs, we do see that these methods should be applied in a much larger circle. So then we have the responsibility of the state, and I would like to emphasise once again that we have the responsibility of the family, and we have the responsibility of the individual. As a conservative man, I won't say anything else, and if I had a fellow Member Nacsa here, he might tell me to take care of myself, because a few more sentences like that, and then they'll kick me out of Jobbik. [[Defiance.]] I'm still not gonna say anything else. I feel quite simply that this is the truth, and I must represent this truth here for as long as I can. And that's what this is about. Everyone has their own job on this issue, which serves or should serve the country's prosperity. And if everyone finds their responsibilities in this area, I think we can take a step forward. Thank you, that's all.
u2020-06-04-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a 30-minute window, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-04-130	Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, Thank you for the supportive thoughts, Mrs László Pósán, Mrs Lőrinc Nacsa, Mrs Erika Kissné Köles, in particular, but I think that all of you have formulated things that I think we can record, and I would like to confirm from this point of view that I am looking at this debate as a good debate today, and that we have, in many cases, an instrument dispute and not a target dispute. I think it's important. This is true of school violence, teacher abuse is unacceptable to all of us, and school violence is unacceptable. As I have said, and I would like to confirm this, the government will implement a complex programme of measures. There is an element of this which will require a legislative amendment, which will be included, not in today's bill, but in the next week's bill, and not in many of its elements, so this Parliament, let's say, deals with it in the context of intellectual debate, but does not have to constitute the right of Parliament. A number of people have also discussed the experience of the new digital working order outside the classroom. Since it was not related to the subject, I did not reflect at the beginning, but I would also like to join the Members who specifically mentioned it, expressing their thanks to teachers, parents and students. Indeed, we have been going through extraordinary months, and I think we can be very pleased to note that the education system, faced with an otherwise difficult challenge in this area, has, in principle and most of it, passed a good test. Thanks to teachers, parents and students alike. Responding to the individual points, Balázs Ander raised the issue of early childhood integration and highlighted several issues. We agree that this has an important role to play in dealing with the school violence of later years, and the government has also done so, and I would like to emphasise this, a step in this area, because from 2015 we made kindergartening compulsory. This means that not only for the middle class of civilians, it is an elegant thing to send children to kindergartens, but for everyone. We have to expect it, and earlier, much earlier, we have to start the kind of socialization, the kind of parenting together for children from the age of three, which, by the way, prepares the school for learning together, working together, and we consider it a very good thing. [[19.50]] Congressman Ander also mentioned the case of the schools. While it is not the EMMI, but at present the area of competence of BM is the area of social inclusion, I would also like to stress in this area that, even a few years ago, we were able to talk about a system funded by an EU project, this has changed, and there is a stable state funding and government regulation on this system. This is a serious support system alongside the education system, so it cannot be said that no action has been taken in this area. Or, let us say, he mentioned the model in Heyökkeresztúr, in which I would like to draw attention to the fact that, with regard to the KOALA, CAP and KIP programmes, his name has changed several times, and the education government has not only negated it, but has launched an almost ten billion-dollar EFOP for the dissemination of this project, for the further training of 32 thousand teachers. So not only did it come up at the level of mention, but we have also invested a very serious resource on this. We also agree on the need for school psychologists. This government has also put the school psychologists in the funded post-2010, and recently there has been a question of representatives on which we have also presented how the scope of school psychologists has expanded in recent years. So I think to say that nothing has happened in the last ten years in this area, this is definitely a slide that I can only rebut by highlighting four elements now. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, there are indeed several elements of your contribution that will bring forward the debate next Tuesday, and I will be here, I will be available, and we will also discuss these matters in detail. There was a specific question regarding the introduction of the National Basic Lesson Plan, the Framework Lesson Plans and local curricula. I'd like to say we didn't set a tight deadline here. There has been the publication of framework curricula, the institutions are working on local curricula, so they have practically even summer, so there is no legal deadline to close this. In general, we asked the institutions in a circular so that, where possible, they could finish this by the end of the academic year, so that colleagues could go on a well-deserved holiday so that they could be aware of how the new local curriculum could start education on 1 September. In this area, I think there is well-established professional work going on. With regard to Mr Gergely Arató's comments, I would say that we see this matter differently with regard to school security, but, as I said, and I would reiterate, a number of other measures will also be taken. I would like to add that he has highlighted measures, conferences, further training, strategy preparation or even the research of Commissioner, in which there was no shortage, but opinions on their effectiveness are divided. [[Gergely Arató: Should have done it after 2010!]] I very often say to my own colleagues relatively consciously that we should not produce documents, nice strategies, conferences and discussions, but that measures should be taken and that we should try to resolve matters. I do not dispute the good intentions that existed in the then educational government, let there be no misunderstanding, but not all the elements of this are considered successful. You were asking the quality of textbook supply, Congressman. In this connection, allow me to say that you privatized the National Book Publisher into friendly hands and have been praising market-based textbook supply ever since. I think it is possible to build a good textbook care system in a state system, and many of our colleagues are working on it. In parallel with the introduction of the new National Basic Study Plan, we are also presenting renewed textbooks in September, which will have an even better quality, posture and approach and can be expected. I think we should wait for these, examine them, discuss them, and I think that's why the education government is working and operating responsibly. With regard to the amendments to teacher training, he said that we are constantly matating here, which is the word he used. I would very much like to underline that the system of teacher training and teacher training last changed systematically in 2012, in parallel with the entry into force of the new law and the new regulations. Since then, technical changes have been made only, and its structure has not changed. I would like to highlight, for example, the enormous introduction of the tutor of the conductor, which cannot be called systemic, for example, or, let us say, there have been changes in the area of technical instructors. Thus, in these types of matters, not structural, not mathematical, but some of the new very special additions to the teacher training system at the regulation level, which had always to be followed up in the law. Once again, trust us in this matter. No one ever said anything to him, I had it investigated directly that there had been comments on the last seven legislative amendments that we had made in this legislative annex. No one ever did that. I would like to point out to Mr Péter Ungár that there are indeed several points of the change concerning basic art education, since there is deregulation, text exchange and a new definition of this circle. So I would like to reassure you that this is not a text understanding problem, but a codification operation is how legislation changes in several places so coherently, which, if you read only certain elements, can cause interpretation problems. I would like to confirm that the free artistic education will also be free for the HH circle. No one who has ever been involved loses their free time, and the circle is expanding as a result of regulation. With regard to data processing, I tell you honestly, what I think is important to see is that the law clearly tells us what data is the data controller, and sometimes we also scratch our heads when a question comes from which it follows that the questioner does not always follow this from the law, who is the data manager, and if it comes as data of public interest, then we cannot answer it but that we do not manage this data. [[Gergely Harvesto: They don't answer anything!]] If it doesn't come as data of public interest, but, let's say, someone asks for general information from the Ministry, then, if necessary, we can obviously ask for it. So sometimes, I think the questioner also has the opportunity to ask his question in a way that asks the controller about the different data, by the way. With regard to the particular need for education, I think that we have the intention of paying attention, and we look at it in the same way as the Member's, that this is a very important and valuable element of the Hungarian education system, and it requires special attention on our part. I would like to point out that we have set up a system that works much more effectively, reaching more students than the previous system. Protocols have improved a lot this decade, and I can tell you about cases such as the number of teachers. Several questions were also raised by representatives, so we know very well, because many times they asked how this would change: in 2010 5700 medical educators were active in the Hungarian system of public education, and in the last year there were 10 thousand people; quite rightly, enlargement was justified in comparison to the conditions of that time. Regarding Mr Tordai's speech: I could not write down the question of education in relation to the bill, but we will, of course, accept his proposals on government communication. As far as I know, we will continue the debate on Tuesday, and I myself will be available, and then we will really deal with the issue of school violence in the first place. That is not what this bill is about, and I would like to underline it again. It contains a single addition to the principle authority, which does not even include the concept of school security. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-131	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Zoltán Maruzsa. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the Foundation for the University of Theatre and Film Arts, the Foundation for the University of Theatre and Film Arts and the bill on the asset allocation to the University of Theatre and Film Arts will follow. The government referral is T/10745. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State József Bódis, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[20.00]]
u2020-06-04-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The tradition is not to preserve the ashes, but to pass the flame on to Tamás Morus. The wisdom of his words is still alive and true. The preservation of values is not the best way to preserve inherited, once well-functioning, but already transcended structures; they must be enhanced and shaped. From 2010 onwards, the government has been working to preserve our common traditions, not only in stone, but also as living traditions and thereby enrich us. In this spirit, we can see how important it is to develop and renew higher education in Hungary with a long history. The aim is to build a quality higher education system in Hungary, where real performance is the highest value. However, this requires the introduction of strategic changes, which we believe will benefit the institutions, the people working in them, and not least the students. Our task is clear and clear: we need to carry out significant reforms to improve efficiency and transparency for quality higher education. This is not only the government's will, but all actors in higher education are interested in modernising the sector. A common vision is essential for the work and reforms can become a well-functioning reality. This particular vision is a higher purpose, or message, which has not changed in the last ten years, and in the spirit of which much work has already been done. However, we still cannot sit back and continue to improve the competitiveness of Hungarian universities, rationalise farming, create conditions for quality and modern education. Dear Parliament, The University of Theatre and Film Arts is a prestigious higher education institution, it can be proud of the success of all Hungarians, and the career of artists and creators who are depositaries, world-class artists and advertisers of the golden day of Hungarian culture. The long history of the establishment known today dates back to 1865 when the Acting School was opened near the National Theatre, the predecessor of the university. From then on, continuous development and expansion marked the originally only small workshop, which soon after World War II was the College of Theatre and Film Arts. Under that name, the preparation of artistic excellence continued, many of whom later became national and not in one case world famous. For more than 20 years now, as of 1 January 2000, the institution has been operating as a university. Despite the many changes, however, the original mission, the training of talented artists, remained unbroken. We owe the University of Theatre and Film to countless artists who have enchanted the art-loving audience in theatres, but also on the screen of film and television for many decades. The patina past and present, which we can rightly be proud of, is not enough without a prosperous future. Dear Parliament, The university's operating model has hardly changed over the last three decades, with the continuous increase in student numbers. Although this has not become at the expense of quality performance, a new structure is now clearly needed to ensure unbroken development for decades to come. The socio-economic environment of the institution and the sectoral governance of higher education raises new challenges that can only be met in a much more modern operational model. The University of Theatre and Film Arts must remain an institution defining and supporting the development of Hungarian culture in the future, and effective renewal is the key to this mission. Like many other higher education institutions, the university has an opportunity through the change of model to guarantee its effectiveness and effectiveness. Renewal will enable you to meet and adapt to your own quality and market environment. The aim of the submitted bill is to transform the university into a recognised knowledge centre at national and international level, to further strengthen its role in cultural life, and to act as a cooperative institution worthy of the highest and unique depositary of Hungarian culture in the future. The government considers that the current institutional structure does not allow for sufficiently flexible operation and effective involvement of external market resources, which is essential for qualitative renewal. The new and modern form of foundation, which has already been tested in the practice of Hungarian higher education, has created all these possibilities. For the University of Theatre and Film Arts, there is also a need to establish a form of trust in the public interest, making the operation of the institution more efficient and flexible. The corporate and cultural sector, as well as the university's cooperation, can create a performance incentive system. The University of Theatre and Film Arts has the opportunity to involve significantly more market resources in its funding, which stimulates the quality of education. The specific profile and relationship system of the model will also enable a broad support community to be established. In addition to asset management, the Foundation will be responsible for the operation of educational, research, student and teacher support programmes, the provision of support based on necessity, and the promotion of talent-care programmes. Employees of the university in the status of civil servants will be given a new status, after which they will continue to work in the employment relationship under the Labour Code. This change will make a significant contribution to the worthy financial recognition of their work. The primary objective of the government's actions to transform the operating model of universities is therefore to create a more flexible and predictable operating environment to increase the competitiveness of higher education. The timely change of model will ease the vulnerability to state support, the infrastructure environment will be restored, and the university will have the opportunity to establish a stable development path, the quality of education will be strengthened and completed, so a balanced operation will be created. The State's involvement does not completely cease, but only becomes a partner from a maintainer, but guarantees cooperation through a long-term framework contract and a shorter financing contract. Dear Parliament, In all cases, the aim of educational institutions is to improve the knowledge of students and students, to develop their talent, and the other priorities are only secondary. Of course, the change of model should not lose sight of this central idea, and more than that, this will encourage the transformation process, ensure the modern, high-quality training of students, thus enabling them to acquire knowledge at international level, focusing on their prosperity and professional attainment. It is important to note that the transformation does not affect the relationship between the current students, but they can already feel the positive consequences. Dear Parliament, The bill presented plays a key role in the further development of the university and provides a secure basis for its proper functioning. That is why I ask you to support the bill on the model change of the University of Theatre and Film Arts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-133	Thank you, Secretary of State József Bódis. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[20.10]]
u2020-06-04-134	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In recent years, the economic and financial potential and stability of the country has also enabled us to devote most resources and the greatest attention to the operation of our higher education system since the change of regime and, as a result, to many successes. However, it is a fact that university education, research and innovation activities are a real test, in an international competition whose actors and regularity vary according to global socio-political-economic trends, demanding constant renewal from these institutions, the whole education system. The recognition of this challenge was already laid down in the government strategy for the transition in higher education, which was completed in 2016, and I will note in parentheses that this government strategy, which was before Parliament, was discussed by a committee, was accompanied by a broad consensus, regardless of party political affiliation. This strategy drew attention to the fact that the current regulatory and organisational framework is difficult to respond to developments in the world, whether it is about increasing international demand for training, making innovations available, or involving new resources for corporate cooperation. Moreover, the limits of the structures so far are visible and presented through a number of very simplable but understandable examples. Given the fact that universities operate on public money in the present situation, and consequently all the rules of public procurement apply to it, I will give you a very shocking example: if today a university wants to invite a Nobel Prize-winning scientist to be a guest teacher, let us say, for a year, this will, of course, require a salary of such volume that the Nobel Prize-winning scientist is worth coming, then this will exceed the procurement limit that the university simply cannot carry out. Here's what we need to do: get a quote from three other people. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] For the record, they're giving a Nobel Prize. That is the case, honourable Member. The same is true of a renowned director, a renowned cameraman, a renowned theatre professional. There are therefore many barriers to the current regulatory framework. So from this point of view, the change of model, I think, is certainly justified. The first such changes of model have already been made in Parliament, and this has affected the Corvinus University of Budapest not so long ago, we voted on six other universities here in the House, and now we have a bill on the change of the operating model of the University of Theatre and Film Arts. As Mr Secretary of State has said, this proposal is essentially intended to ensure that the art work of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, the teachers and the workers there, can otherwise be placed within a more balanced and much larger framework. This also means, in essence, once again, let me give you some simplistic examples that, if there is a very good theatre director and it reaches the retirement age, in the case of an institution with a state reserve, licence applications for further employment should be submitted and, in the case of an institution with a foundation reserve, such circles should not be run. Such a change of model can provide a more flexible employment opportunity, and it can generate more revenue from the institution, the market, the company, the theatre, the film industry, and the synchronization cooperation. Basically, with good management, this university, I think it can run a much bigger career. In view of the fact that Hungary has become a very serious film production centre in recent years due to Andy Vajna's activities, I believe that it is worth linking these existing good capacities, knowledge and capabilities and taking advantage of its potential. So I think this proposal for a change of model will benefit the university. I hope that Parliament will be able to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-04-135	Thank you very much, Congressman László Pósán. I give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-04-136	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, These debates were carried out a few days ago, and practically the same thoughts echoed in the Secretary of State's exposé. I would like to point out once again without repeating all the thoughts I have already said about six universities that I find two valid concepts very worrying, one being the so-called market environment and the other one called efficiency. In particular, in the case of an art-training university, I think that we should talk about both the market environment and efficiency, of course, but only then it should be interpreted, and especially I do not consider the application of these concepts to be fortunate, for example, in the context of a change of model. In both the objectives of the Higher Education Strategy, my fellow Member Pósán referred to this, there was indeed a consensus, but at the same time in the instrumental system of the way there, I think that we can argue and argue with each other. I continue to maintain our position, on behalf of the EPP Jobbik, that funding dictates, for example, the level of remuneration of a university teacher. He won't have more money if he loses his status as a civil servant, as it depends on how much funding the university receives or how much external resources the university can involve, and what denial, neither is the foundation form the only solution to getting external funding from a university. So I think that these are the references to the public procurement mentioned by my fellow Member Pósán and that I will refer again to my speech as the lead speaker in the previous university round, and it also does not justify, in my view, the excellence of the form of foundation, and that this will bring the expected Canaan to the University of Acting Arts, as time will decide for the other universities what results this model change will bring. I think it's a little early for the victory report, I think. So I think that the solution to public procurement is not necessarily the form of foundation, but that it can be resolved without further ado, as in the recent package of amendments to the Higher Education Act presented by the Secretary of State, for example, we have been able to make an excellent way to employ foreign trainers. No, because that is a problem, of course, not as my colleague Pósán said here in the example of the Nobel Prize winners, because of course there is no need to put out public procurement, but let's say we do have to put public procurement on matches on ELTE if we get matches at a university level, because then we will exceed the threshold, I would signal. [[Defiance.]] Just as a former university leader, I would respectfully point out that this is true, but for Nobel laureates, public procurement is not true. So I think that the university world can be excluded from the scope of the Public Procurement Act by applying certain other legislation, which makes the management of the particularly large universities realistic. Therefore, I do not consider the reference to public procurement to be a kind of non plus ultra in support of the form of foundation. In addition, as Mr Secretary of State rightly pointed out in his expo, this is a special university, and the history of this higher education institution has been very well described, Professor, and I think that is precisely why the legislator and the higher education government have a special responsibility here, because we are talking about actors and artists. [[20.20]] So I think that the EPP Jobbik, on the part of culture and knowledge, is very concerned about the way in which this change of model has been prepared, honourable State Secretary, because it is possible to see from the declaration of the elected academic leaders of the institution that (a) they have been informed of the whole plan from the press, (b) they regard this whole change of model as a very short deadline, (c) and I say this as the rapporteur of the Council of Europe responsible for academic freedom and university autonomy is quite concerned about academic freedom if a university teacher is elected as a rector in November 19 and has not been appointed since then, and now, as a reason for the change of model. This, Mr. Secretary of State, is outrageous, and I find it an insult to the faces of university citizens, since the universe, the community of academics and students, has elected the university teacher they want as a rector; unfortunately, I must say that we have seen more examples of this in the governance of the last ten years when the Fidesz government appointed rectors against the will of university citizens. I am very concerned about this, and not because in every case, let's say, the permanently appointed rector would not have been qualified for this position, but I do not dispute that, at the same time, academic autonomy and academic freedom mean that we can choose our own leaders, who, in addition to the creation of the Chancellor's system, are increasingly limited in power. Speaking of powers: as with other university transformations, I have also tabled my proposal for amendment to the Board of Directors to be an ex-officio member of the Rector and head of the Institutes, as it has been revealed in the case of universities so far, and in this case it is planned that, if I have read correctly in the press, only one of the five-person Curatorium can then be virtually related to the university. I find this worrying, for we have seen on the Corvinus' pattern what this leads to; it has led to the creation of a sms so that the Senate of the University has not seen it. Well, what if it's not a reduction in academic freedom? ! So I think that there are some warning signs that this is a dangerous road, and I would very much like to divert the education and higher education government from this dangerous road, because I think that the University of Acting is, in particular, conducting a training that is of particular importance for Hungarian culture. And now let me point out, in conclusion, that, moreover, the situation of actors in our country is quite critical, and with an earlier law, even their status as civil servants is now being lost by the Fidesz government. I also said in the debate that, indeed, in the life of a theatre, the number one leader has played a prominent role, and then it will be even more so, and, let's say, an actor working in a rural theatre who has been working there for 20 years, what other options he will have if, let's say, he will be unemployed, or, let's say, what will become of their summer salary if the management of the theatre decides not to pay him the summer salary, that in the summer there will be no pay for that actor. On behalf of Summa summarum, Jobbik's faction, I would like to link our support to the fact that, if my proposed amendment is supported and accepted for the Board, we will be able to support the proposal, otherwise not on the grounds stated. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-04-137	Thank you, Congressman Brenner Koloman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-06-04-138	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Before I get to the point of what I have to say, I would like to briefly reflect on what my better fellow Member has said. I think that your proposals are open to debate, so it can be debated, but I would suggest one thing for consideration: if you criticize the proposal before us, so this change of model of the art, then I think that you will act responsibly if you also make an alternative to what you propose. Because we may also agree that adapting this university to the needs of the age, and also to the functioning of the whole higher education world, is a sensible suggestion, and this is also necessary to make higher education a truly knowledge centre and a competitive one. But what I have heard from you, on the other hand, is that it could be resolved, let us say, to exempt higher education from certain public procurements. However, I would like to point out to the Member that, if such a proposal were to come before the House, I would not be surprised if, by the way, there were sharp criticisms of such a proposal in opposition benches, and they immediately wondered why. So I am not sure even though I think this is a debateable proposal, but I am not sure that this could be an alternative to the model change that this proposal contains; it would only be a solution to the current system, but I think that a much bigger step needs to be taken here. The current model of operation should not be absolved and given to universities a public procurement exemption, but a significantly greater change is needed. That's it for reflection. What I would like to say is that culture is very important for Fidesz-KDNP. We believe that culture plays a prominent role in the national preservation force, and we should also note that Hungary is a great cultural power, Hungarian acting, theatres, Hungarian actors are known and recognized worldwide, and we should be proud of that. Therefore, Fidesz-KDNP governance has done everything in its power to increase the reputation and support of Hungarian culture. Obviously, this is not always quantifiable, but I would like to note that the support for cultural activities in 2010 was set to HUF 171 billion by the government in 2020, i.e. HUF 443 billion this year, and HUF 469 billion by the government to support cultural activities in the budget in 2021. If you look at the period 2010 to 2021, this is a 174% increase. Perhaps this also shows how committed we are to ensuring quality cultural life in Hungary. This is necessary only because we are not only a great cultural power, but the Hungarian is a nation that consumes culture, the number of people interested in culture is constantly increasing in Hungary. According to Eurostat data, Hungarians spend a great deal on culture compared to other Member States of the European Union, on average 2.1 percent of GDP. I think we should be proud of that, too. Here, my fellow Member Pósán mentioned that we should also be proud of the fact that as a result of the work of recent years, Hungarian films and the Hungarian film industry are also living in a golden age. There are films that have won prestigious awards for Saul's son, among other things, which all contributed to Hungarian culture being known worldwide. And if culture is so important to us, then I think that really adapting cultural institutions to the needs of the age and thus the functioning of the University of Acting Arts and adapting it to the needs of the age is not a question. And if we may move one more step away from the specific proposal, the content of which has been presented by the Secretary of State, I think that we need to ask that question, and from this point of view we need to approach this proposal as to what is and is the task of culture. I know that this has a library of literature, and this is a very important issue, but I also think that this issue cannot be avoided when we are talking about the model change of one of the most important cultural institutions. [[20.30]] There are many who say that culture does not actually have a job, culture is self-expression, reflection on ourselves, but, for example, there are no moral dimensions of culture, there is no need to guide us, for example, on the questions of good and bad, on the beautiful issues, or it is not a concern to strengthen national identity. Now that culture has a job in the former, good and bad, moral judgment, I wouldn't open the debate I think there is. However, I think it is very important to say that when I talk about promoting culture, Fidesz-KDNP always thinks about national culture. It is important to state this because if we are talking about this, it also means that we believe that culture is responsible for strengthening national identity and national identity. I do not think that this would mean that artistic freedom should be restricted in any way. I do not think that it has no task, or culture is not self-expression, or culture would not have a universal character, but I think that culture does have the task of strengthening national identity and transferring national identity from generation to generation. I believe that the nation is the greatest gift in history, as Szolzhenitsin said, and that if that is the case, then we must see culture as a tool in order to strengthen national identity. However, if this is the task of culture, which we believe is its task, then cultural institutions should be able to pass on national identity to cultural institutions in accordance with the needs of the age. I think that there is no debate in the fact that the University of Theatre is one of the most important Hungarian cultural institutions, educational institutions, and this institution has not been touched in 30 years, it is operating in the same form. I think that, in this situation, you cannot sufficiently touch on the strengthening and transfer of national identity. Therefore, perhaps this is the deeper reason for the important reasons that the Secretary of State has already mentioned here, which is the deeper reason why KDNP can support the proposal before us. We also expect this institution to become an up-to-date, knowledge centre while thinking about national culture and strengthening national identity. Therefore, of course, the KDNP can wholeheartedly support the proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Pósán applauds.]]
u2020-06-04-139	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-06-04-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I have the same reservations about the transformation of the University of Theatre and Film to a university with foundational reservations that I have been talking about the last time. Obviously, I won't repeat these, but I have questions. Based on government expectations, the foundation university will have to meet a real labour market demand. We are now going to allow it to be impossible in practice to comply with this, since you can tell us what needs the labour market will have in five to six years' time. But what did they think about the world of theatre and cinema, where, among other things, they were actors, directors, and cameramen? What labour market needs do you now see in this area, which would justify the foundational ownership of the University of Theatre and Film Arts? And speaking of the foundation, what guarantee do you have that the new foundation maintainer of the University of Theatre and Film Arts will be managed by independent and professionally structured persons? My fellow Member Brenner Koloman talked about his experiences, but we can see that in the case of the first university to be founded, because we know exactly who is putting the board together. So the form of foundation alone is no guarantee of independence, because you will fill the foundation with people who do the government's will. I was genuinely surprised when Zita Horváth, ITM, State Secretary for Higher Education, said that there might be names this week. If there are names, I'll thank you for telling me. He was talking about practically two steps... So, on the one hand, he gave me a good news, and I am very pleased that there will also be a 30% increase in wages between 1 January 2021 and 2022. However, with regard to the curatorial composition of foundations, he talked about the need for people who in some way show professional knowledge, sensitivity, commitment and willingness to support the institutions, whether they are market players or they are from the profession. However, in the five-person curatorium, a maximum of one person may be who is affiliated with the university, but this does not automatically mean that there will be one. So I have to admit, I've started to worry here, and I've submitted this bill, and I've really been thinking that you really know what you're up to. They have been preparing for a long time, since the attacks have already begun last year by the politicians who are fidesz and who call themselves Christian Democrats, and by trumped-up accusations the reputation of the former rector of the university. Even then, they ignored the minimum autonomy of the university and systematically started their preparations to destroy this unique higher education institution. Let's see what they're up to. I am very confident that you do not want to destroy or re-enact artistic entities whose political affiliation is kind and desirable to you. And then let's take a look at the history of this institution. More than a century and a half ago, on January 2, 1865, the institutional Hungarian-language acting school began, when the theatre school opened in three rooms on the second floor of a residential house near the Pest National Theatre. One of the signs of the political relief that took place a decade after the revolution in the early 1960s was that I read, literally, by his most graceful manuscript dated May 10, 1863, Franz Joseph I, His Imperial and Apostolic Royal Highness, helped not only the depressing financial relations of the National Theatre, but also ordered the establishment of an acting school to increase the artistic forces that began to shrink, and provided significant aid for its maintenance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thus, even at the time of its establishment, the State assumed the costs of maintaining the school. In 1875 the Népszínház opened its doors, which played primarily musical works and folk theatres, and the Hungarian Royal Opera House was inaugurated in 1884 so that the National Theatre could remain the home of the prose works. This also affected the school called the National Academy of Actors from 1885. From 1893 the task of the Hungarian National Royal Academy of Theatre Arts was purely acting education. From 1 January 1948, the institution became the Academy of Theatre and Film Arts. Following the political regime change in 1989-90, the development and implementation of college reforms accelerated at the time of László Babarczy's rectorship on the initiative of students. This, above all, has produced spectacular results in film training, because on the one hand, in line with professional demand, new courses have been launched, such as producer, television editor-reporter and host, and on the other hand, two-storey education has been introduced, as well as a complex form of education for directors, cameramen, editors and producers. From 1 January 2000, the institution received a well-deserved university title. Thank you for that. This is the chronological history of the university. But what's more important is the domestic and international success of the work done over the last few years. In the history of the school, continuity between generations ensures the exploitation of the achievements of the predecessors and the continuous renewal of education in line with the requirements of the age. [[20.40]] Over the decades, a long series of artistic talents began their successful careers, and many of the finest considered the teaching of future generations as an honorary task of all time. One of the most important features of the university is that university teachers are all active artists, the Hungarian theatre life, the outstanding personalities of cinema and the Hungarian Television, who pass on their artistic experience to the students. By them, the university is closely linked to the circulation of artistic life. Representatives of the various trends in Hungarian theatre and cinema are present in the teaching faculty. Education is diverse depending on the individuality of the teacher, his artistic form, and provides space for the selection of the curriculum, methods of teaching and diversity. However, many artistic quests are combined with the joint effort to focus education on the development of the talent, personality and creative capacity of the artist candidate. The University of Theatre and Film Arts is the only university institution in the country that provides a college or university degree to future artists of theatre, film and television. The university's exams and students are often awarded to international festivals. The most important indicator of the results achieved is that the graduates of the school are at the forefront of the arts field. Most Hungarian theatre, film and television artists have received national and international successes and recognitions, as well as their professional preparation and artistic identity. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The University of Theatre and Film Arts is one of Europe's most versatile institutions in quality training. His privateization is also the squandering of the nation's spiritual wealth. Even in the appearance of market conditions in trade and training, the university was able to maintain its quality and value-centred approach and attractiveness. The number of applicants does not decrease, with over-subscription about 20 times per year. Private schools and studios are also trying to get into college. This also means that any major actor opens an acting school, the prestige that the university provides, is legitimized only by the knowledge and diploma acquired there. There was also an increase in the professional qualifications of applicants. On this basis, the number of students who obtained their second degree and paid for their expenses also increased. This is also necessary now, as a state university, in order to maintain standards. I ask you, is this the institution you want? Who, who? It has now been proven for other branches of art that talent and ability are not party and political. There is no other way in the case of theatrical art. You may think that you will train the filmmakers, actors, directors, cameramen of the future to the taste of your own mouth, but from the kind of training that you prefer, believe me, only weak, medium-talented and talented ones will emerge, and the international reputation and interest in theatres that are also due to the University of Dramatic Arts, I fear it will disintegrate. I trust that this is not what you are about to do, fellow Members. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-04-141	Thank you very much. Good evening. We will continue our work by hearing the opinion of DK's lead speaker. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, please.
u2020-06-04-142	Mr President, Dear House, We are in a particular situation today, because, in fact, Mr State Secretary should not be sitting here on behalf of the government, but Mr Péter Fekete, State Secretary, because this proposal does not actually fit into the standard university reorganization series. We have had this debate several times and I do not want to go back to it at all, but I would like to say very briefly that we agree that there are many problems in the current model of maintenance and institutions, and we agree that it places too many obligations, too many difficulties, too many administrative tasks on universities, but we do not agree that this solution would be privatisation or outsourcing to foundations. Congressman Hollik says we should say something better. I recommend that you draw up the 2005 Higher Education Act, which is neither perfect nor very far from what we would have liked at the time, but it is a much better quality than the 2011 Act, and it shows much more from how to operate the higher education system more efficiently and flexibly within the framework of a public system. If you really wanted these university reorganizations to improve higher education, you would have brought here the changes that are necessary in the Higher Education Act. But I'm not starting this argument again. I am not starting this debate again because that is not what this bill is about. In the proposals that have come before Parliament, in university reorganizations, if there has been a debate, there has been a professional debate between us. These debates were about whether, in general, the form of foundation is good or whether it should be made more flexible to operate the institutions by keeping the framework of state reservations; that, once it is a form of foundation, that foundation should look like it looks in these laws; that it had enough time to prepare for the institutions and that this form would be good for the institution. Because it's quite obvious that he has completely different needs, say, from the University of Miskolc and the veterinary university, I'm sorry that I don't say his full name, or even the Corvinus, who created the previous model, where the financing and foundation model is also fundamentally different from the new model. But if this were the case, my fellow Members, we would obviously have had this proposal in the seventh place with the other six, and this is not for nothing. I'm saying that Mr. Secretary of State Péter Fekete should be sitting here instead of you, because this is not a question of higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the purest, purest cultural battle. Thank you, Mr Hollik, for being more honest and talking about what is at the heart of this proposal. You say that culture is a tool, that only national culture has a place, and, I add, what is national culture, you will tell it yourself. As we have heard today, who is the nation, you also tell us. This is a clear speech, and we know that this is how you think about culture and how you think about this country. This bill is a means of doing so. This proposal is being put here because you have declared the University of Dramatic Arts to a liberal nest that needs to be blown up, which needs to be cleaned up. That is what this proposal is about, fellow Members. If someone doesn't believe and has a stomach, then tell them what your press, your propaganda, has written about the University of Dramatic Arts in the last six months. The abuse, the kind of lying that is in these articles, even in this propaganda, is extremely stomach-stricken. So I must tell you that the intentions are clear. The intention is to appoint a board of trustees that will carry out the government's political instructions and put political commissaries at the head of this institution. Let me tell you two little things. On the one hand, they refused to appoint the rector proposed by the autonomous management of the institution for almost six months. But let me give you another example. It's all over the press that one of the university's students had the guts to give a political opinion on a current political issue. Well, Vasvári would get it from your press to be political for a college student. That is what I must say, therefore, fellow Members. And I don't want to go into the details of how many members of the board will be, how many members of the board will be given, given or not given the building, or if there is money for acting art training, why not just give it to them why they need such a form of foundation. I have to say that this proposal has nothing to do with the transformation of higher education, in this proposal the transformation of higher education, whatever we think of it, is only a cover, but the form of the intentions to hide naked and disgusting political intentions and to kill an excellent Hungarian university. [[20.50]] Needless to say, we cannot support the proposal, we consider it shameful, outrageous, cultural, university-autronomical and anti-freedom.
u2020-06-04-143	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue is coming to say this for so long that the notary of the Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, will be there in his place. [[It's happening.]] And with your microphone fixed, you can begin to express your opinion. [[Bence of Turdai: It's worse than that, I'm not logged out!]] We're about to make sure the congressman gets a voice, I think... [[Bence of Turda: Or who am I?]] Yeah, but we can solve bad situations, too. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Bence of Turdai: It's so relaxing!]] Here you go. [[Bence of Tordai: Still a long way off... Gergely Gergely Grateful Tordai Bencey: You have a voice!]]
u2020-06-04-144	If I have a voice, I will no longer waste the time of the Honourable Parliament. [[István Hollik: You are free to speak! Gergely Harvesto: More! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your technical assistance. Dear fellow Members, Dear Citizens, I am in a difficult situation that Gergely Arató has told me everything that can be said about this bill, so I was just about to do what he called for our stronger fellow citizens who are following the news, and it may not even be necessary to call for specific research, just the news of the Origo, one of the most important propaganda amenities of Fidesz in recent months in connection with the University of Theatre and Film Art, because this is the channel, this is the forum where the actual leaders of Fidesz' intention is shown much more honestly, much more directly, much more clearly than in the reasoning for the bill before us, or even in the speech of our fellow Members of the Fidesz-KDNP. If it weren't for the dignity of the Parliament, I would say that the reason for adjusting the operating structure to the changing age, and the races like this, could have been or could have been related to the English expression of the bull's feces fifty years ago, if we wanted to be very precise. This is a sophia speech, which not only doesn't make sense, but we know that it doesn't have real content, and there are perfectly independent motivations in the background. István Hollik was indeed kind enough to confess, and in some constructive way to translate it, that here the University of Theatre and Film Arts could be one of the future institutions of the National Cultural Training Center, if this transformation were to take place, if I roughly correctly quote his thoughts, the essence was grasped, which means in fidesz use of the word "KDNP" as well, that they are trying to establish or implant the values against the values that you call Balliberal, while it is very resounding to talk about a party, a family of parties, in a political direction, in the centenary of Trianon, when it takes over the concept of "national" and "national" as well. So I wouldn't even bother to do that anymore. I'd really just like to quote a few addresses. One of the themes of Origo's titles is the University of Theatre and Film Arts, when they're trying to tell us that this is a balliberal place in some way, whatever it means as my green left, I can't understand exactly what it is. Let me just quote a typical title:, According to the professor of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, the University of Theatre and Film Arts is Balliberal. This is the most powerful title...! It's not a classic click-hunter title, but the message is perfectly sound. But they regularly refer to the University of Theatre and Film with this label. The other subject is that they would do all kinds of nasty things here and cover up ugly things, like sexual harassment scandals, and so much that it is not enough that Fidesz media believes that the SZFE has become infinite, but that the university is being referred to as a major disease in this story. It is clear that they are being subjected to an ongoing discredit in a case that actually took place not at the university, but at a theatre, and on which I think the university has taken very decisive steps. Compared to this, the hack campaign did not stop, but could indeed be on the front page of the biggest government online newspaper, whether represented by the university's teacher or student, or only the opinion displayed in the non-public space, which, to be honest, has a reputation in the rarest cases, but could be on the front page of the largest government online newspaper, as it is part of the discrediting campaign, which I do not even know, when they started at least half a year ago against the University of Theatre and Film Arts, which is part of the fact that they do not appoint a legitimately elected rector of the university, and then throwing it to their eyes that there is no appointed rector of the university, full nonsense, and that they humiliate themselves. Obviously, I don't want to put the University of Theatre and Film Arts in a worse position than ever, but I've had time here in the pulpit, and I've read their circular of last month's summary, where for some 30 pages, the Secretary of State, other government actors' statements, interviews, announcements, similar communications, letters, questions of the University, and the entire history have summarized what has happened in the past period since the transformation, the restructuring or the change of model was taken into their heads by the cultural warrior leaders of Fidesz. Practically everything turned the other way. At first it was a merger of four art higher education institutions, and then it turned out that it was actually enough to reshape the University of Theatre and Film Arts to blow it up, as Gergely Arató said. At first, they were still hoping, and a little false how shall I put it? With optimism, they now act as if they could have a meaningful say in who the actual leaders of the university, the board of trustees, will be, but we obviously know that here the appointment of ministers means that the best of the Fidesz cultural warriors will push their own proteges into the administration of the institution, and they will control the university through the board, or what remains of it, or what will be created as a result of the transformation. And by the way, it is good that László Pósán is sitting here, because he has said somewhere in the media months ago that, yes, this leadership must be replaced here, and there must also be consequences for things that are not there, and there must also be a replacement of leaders who are not yet appointed, I think, that might have been in his mind, while, in his letter, the Chancellor, already appointed by you, called the direction of the transformation more than problematic, but also this speed. Overall, in this 30-page circular, I read in a summary perhaps almost a hundred questions, which were tried to be asked by the relevant or thought decision-makers, many of which were not answered. I think that there is no answer to most of these questions, and where there is, they have no intention of answering these questions. They keep the institution in complete uncertainty, and it is likely that it is only in the minds of a few Fidesz cultural political leaders or bush fighters, how the University of Theatre and Film Arts will look in six months' time, considering what a treasure this institution is, what a national value, as our fellow Member Zita Gurmai described it for a long time, I think is an infinitely sad and irresponsible damage they're about to do. So I know that they do not give much attention to the concerns of opposition representatives, in whatever form we express them, but that if they were to act as national-thinking, values-thinking, responsible government or, where appropriate, government-party decision-makers, then it is quite certain that this shameful bill would be withdrawn, they would not give way to the discrediting and inciting campaign that some of them have conducted against the university in recent months, they would stop their lost dogs and let the University of Theatre and Film Arts continue to carry on in peace, autonomously and peaceful terms the valuable creative work that they have done in recent years and decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP and MSZP.]] [[21.00]]
u2020-06-04-145	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply is Andrea Varga-Damm. Congresswoman, please.
u2020-06-04-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10745. No.3 is trying to attempt to transfer the operating and maintenance rights of the University of Theatre and Film to a foundation. In recent months, and even two or three weeks ago, the government voted for a similar structure for other universities. I wouldn't be surprised if you supported this proposal and raised it to the law. One of the reasons in this proposal is that it intends to strengthen the institutional system and to implement the support of the participants in training, and to this end the proposal asks the government to establish a foundation that will be a trustee of the University of Theatre and Film Arts. I would like to highlight the word "supplier." In previous weeks, when we discussed legislative proposals of a similar nature, I was not in charge of the topic in my former faction, so I did not examine to such an extent the legal background in these previous proposals and highlighted it. However, I have now taken the trouble and I would like to appreciate it a little from this point of view, because my opposition colleagues have actually approached this proposal from all aspects, and I do not want to repeat them in any way. So the point is that the trust fund receives a maintenance right from the Hungarian State. He considers the right to maintain a right of property which embodies the property of his founder. I have to say, this is something we rarely see when it comes to the fact that a foundation is formed in such a way that its founding property is not embodied in some kind of money and delimited, determinable wealth, but says that the maintenance right itself is the property value of the foundation's initial assets. Well, I gotta say, I'm gonna have a hard time imagining how a maintenance law can run a foundation; because to run it, you need money, you need people, you need tools. It is a big question to me that, therefore, the legislator wants it, and the Ministry wants it as a national, that although it receives a right of property value, this right of maintenance as a founding property of the foundation, it does not receive any money, but it may then operate universities through state aid for the maintenance of universities. Then what happened here? Did something happen here, then? Well, the money is the same; they put in a maintenance system like a foundation, who spends the same money as when they now give universities normative support or targeted support, and they spend it. So now we really need a position for cadres, who will be curators, and we'll pay them from this normative, and then we'll even pay for the infrastructure for their operation? Ergo already says that this will cost more, for example, the operation of this university. It's just an aspect. The other aspect: last time, I don't even know which university I spoke about, the Marek József Foundation, and then there was a little disrepair between me and the Secretary of State that I now say that the university gets property, but the foundation gets property. It wasn't special, so it was understandable, Mr. Secretary of State, that the lawyers said that this was the way to do it, and that it was okay. Well, it's really okay in the sense that if the university as an independent legal person, in this case, a budgetary institution retains this capacity and nature of the budgetary institution, because property can only be transferred to him by law if he is a legal person, an independent legal person, which is precisely defined in the Civil Code. So the consequence of this proposal is that the university remains a budgetary institution, we put on its head this trust receiving maintenance rights, and the university gets the property because it remains as an independent budgetary institution, then I just want to ask you how an independent budgetary institution can lead a foundation. So, really, I don't want to brag about my quasi-legal knowledge, it's nothing like that, but if someone wants to analyze the precise legal definition of a system to be developed, because they want to adapt to this problem, then it's important to know who's involved in this whole system. Because if the foundation is just a maintainer, the foundation does not get property, the foundation's source is property rights, which have no value in any kind of money. It is not nothing, however, as the courts will register this, but I would like to talk to the judges who will register these foundations without a financial contribution, but what the Hungarian government will send in will certainly record everything, but the essence of this is that there is no single element in this structure that can guarantee it, and I say it from an institutional point of view, is neither artistic, nor ideological, from an institutional point of view, I can't imagine what will make this university more effective. There is simply no element in this, just putting a so-called maintainer on the existing institution, who is a foundation, and it will tell the university what he can spend, how much money he can spend on an institutional or staff framework, how the institution can build up its structure, its management structure and so on. Now, excuse me, the Ministry or a local government, if we're talking about municipal, state institutions, but in this case, couldn't a ministry, perhaps, be able to express those expectations against a university? You need an extra curatorium, an extra foundation, an extra institution, an enormous amount of money infrastructure to tell a university what I, as a state, expect from it in performance? Because, by the way, a maintainer is basically demanding, not just the owner of creating circumstances. But I'll keep going. Article 5 Paragraph 3 of Section 3 states that if the university wishes to sell the real estate, then he can do so by turning the amount from it into his core activity, and so it is okay. It's just that the problem is that 5. However, paragraph 1 of Section 1 states that a prohibition on disposal and debiting must be registered. Well, if we're booking a disposal and debit ban on the given gifted property, how can we sell it with the disposal and debit ban? How do you sell it? If the law says it's gonna be registered on the deed, then we need some sort of regulation, so who's gonna let them sell it after all, and who's gonna lift the disposal and debit ban? And by the way, if we allow the university to sell it in addition to the sale ban, let's just say the minimum I would have expected in this regulation is to tell me who's gonna own this thing, who's gonna control it. Minister for Property Management? National Asset Management Ltd.? Who? National Asset Management Ltd. It is included in this proposal, it has a job to do. But selling a free-of-charge property to a university with a ban on disposal and debit is something someone's got to do with it. [[21.10]] There is a lack of legislation, because the legislation also states which sections of the national wealth law do not apply to this package of proposals and to the measures contained therein, so I must tell you, if such a situation arises, who should be on their feet. Once again, we are talking about incomplete regulation, and I am convinced that, before 22:00, the amendment of these laws will probably come in, because they will realize from life that this cannot be applied as it is written. A number of my fellow Members have talked about the fact that, for example, in relation to the University of Theatre and Film Arts, there is a political influence behind this proposal, and they want the state to have a greater say in the life of a more liberal university and training, and this can be at the expense of the performance of the world-famous film and theatre world. I would like to approach this issue a little differently, stressing that I do not want any political interference in the art world in any way. Artistic freedom is a sacred thing, and politicians don't have anything to say about it, because one person decides that he is a fan of artistic creation, and that's the audience. The politician can have the same opinion as any ordinary person in the audience. But even in that wonderful life, I was lucky enough to remember theater performances 40 years ago, I can also remember the theater performances from 20 years ago, and I've known the voice of great actors ever since I was born today, and I know what they're called. I can recognize them from their movements without them speaking. We've had the pleasure of living for a few decades to know the name, the voice, of every great actor and film actor we've ever known, only if we've seen his eyes, we've recognized him. Today, I'd be happy to give you names so that you even know who they are, they'd recognize their voices, they'd remember their voices or their faces or their eyes or anything. I'm just giving you a few examples. Milán Schruff: I guess no one knows who he is, but he's playing Richard the Lionheart in winter today, let's say, not during the coronal virus epidemic, but if the theatres were open. Or, for example, Gergely Kocsis: they probably don't know him, but he plays Platonov. Or, for example, Lajos Ottó Horváth, who is in the storm, in Prospero. I have brought these names here, fellow Members, because it shows today that we no longer know the voice of the actors under 45 years old, we do not recognize it on the street, if we look at its eyes, we cannot identify it. And do you know why that is? 'Cause even though there's good acting, even though there's good dramaturg, director, and cameraman training, when these artists come out of school, there's no cultural medium close to supporting them based on their abilities and performance, and we can see them as well as know them as the great actors of old. I wouldn't dare to say it, because I can't see that there aren't such glamorous personalities coming in, and therefore we can't see them, because we wouldn't have known those old shiny personalities if I had emphasized television and the affordable theater, that affordable theater wouldn't have given them the opportunity, countless opportunities for the audience to get to know them. Because even if there is a world-class, good University of Theatre and Film Arts, if the young artists who come out of it don't get into the same supportive environment that could create the same popularity, the same reputation as the old actors. That an actor can be known today if he gets on the front page of the tabloids, if he can be in lemonade performances, he can be in worthless movies, today that's what's known, celebrity means fame. This means that public life, whether you like it or not, has become poor, and not the audience has become less needy, no-one thinks, not the audience has become less needy, but the presentation they receive is unneeded, and the poor don't even know that they could be part of more demanding artistic achievements if the mediums didn't focus on poorness, because lemonade is the easiest to serve, the easiest to take in with people, where there is no longer any need to process the importance of the work, what it has to say. A hundred words end in a system of institutions that, in the interest of the art world, the acting world will be more successful if it is not assigned a demanding cultural support that these artists can truly unfold. The poor world has reached them. Their lives are difficult, they are very difficult to cope with, and the transformation of the university alone will not solve their problems. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-147	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, Congressman István Hollik, KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-148	Mr. President. Thank you so much for closing me in for two minutes, so I'm just gonna give you a little more time to sum up what I'd like to say. Quick reflections. Indeed, I think that that is the difference, and that is the whole point of the debate, and that is why I have brought up how people think about the task of culture, culture at all, and the fact that culture has a job. I have merely stated and continue to believe that, while respecting what people think about culture, I believe that, in addition to guaranteeing freedom of art, culture is responsible for building and strengthening national identity, identity and national pride. This requires a modern institutional system. That is why I support this proposal. The other one. I would like to point out to Mr Bence Tordai that the aspect I have raised in this context and approach is not a party policy approach. You're saying that instead of the Balliberian, you're going to have to come to a national, you're misinterpreting what I said. No. At the time, I would have said that I believe that it is the responsibility of culture to strengthen right-wing identity, but I did not say that, but I said that it is necessary to strengthen a national identity, which is above party politics. That's an important difference. I think it is trivial, and we shouldn't talk about it, but it seems that every cultural institution must be responsible for strengthening national identity and identity. I think that, if we agree on this, we also have to agree that it is simply necessary to shape the operational structures, make them modern in this case, and then I have gone beyond two minutes. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-149	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent, two minutes.
u2020-06-04-150	Yes, I am very pleased with my fellow Member, István Hollik, that he has spoken, and he has brought up this national or liberal or even national context. I accept, and thank you for your thoughtfulness, but please make sure you have an ambassador to get to the Operetta Theatre, because what's going on there is a horror in itself. [[Péter Ungár applauded: Drama!]] So the fact that they had a new leadership appointment to talk about what an Operetta Theatre should have had to do with its programming structure, and technically until a year and a half ago everyone was lining up for tickets and couldn't get into the theater, they got to the point that they couldn't show two pieces that were national emotional, and otherwise today's 100-year-old sorccer studio would have had a theatrical, stage show at the Operetta Theatre, and they used such unrated and sluggish people to show the play that it couldn't be staged. I'm not talking about what you read in the press, because it's none of our business, and it's up to the maintainer to know what kind of personal conflicts there are. But don't tell me that in order for national thought, national sentiment, to appear in any theatre through plays, it must be accompanied by the destruction of a company, the destruction of the professional community of institutions, and, in practice, exorcising the audience, who is a fan of the time, standing in line from the theatre. I don't think that if we did one or two national pieces a year, we wouldn't be able to have musicals or operas that the audience likes more. I don't think the two can stand together. With great respect, I ask my fellow Member to go there as an ambassador, and please send the wishes of Parliament and the nation to order there and not to shame the national sentiment with the unacceptable activity that is going on there. Thank you very much. [[21.20]]
u2020-06-04-151	Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz!
u2020-06-04-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Bence of Turdai spoke to me. That's what I'd like to respond to. Please read carefully what I have told you. I specifically said that, by the way of the Gothar case, in the case of sexual harassment, if this is where the university is headed, it must have a personal consistency. And I maintain this statement now, and I think it is right; I am rather surprised that Zita Gurmai said it as a trumped-up accusation, even though she once gave MeToo her face. I thought sexual harassment would be a reprehensible thing for everyone. [[Gergely Arató: Examined, fired. What else was there to do?]] Congressman Harvest said that one of the students at the university said something. The president of the student self-government will comment on an issue that otherwise shares the students there, because it has political content. The student self-government is a representative body, so it must move as appropriate. If you think of it as a private person, of course, there is nothing wrong with it. There was a question of what labour market needs could come up with a change of model. Congresswoman Gurmai asked me that. I would like to point out one thing: in today's world, for example, computer technology has played an incredibly important role in film production. These represent a new knowledge that should be brought in and displayed with a greater advantage in order to be competitive, and Hungary can also be a major centre of film production. 'Cause for now, we're just saying thank God we have a good image, but I'd like to keep it that way. And one final remark. I'm sorry Brenner Koloman isn't here. He said that if the proposals for the board were adopted, they could support the whole idea. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm just suggesting that all the other points weren't serious.
u2020-06-04-153	I would like to thank President Pósán very much for his two-minute response to the two-minute term of Congressman Tordai, and then he has given me another two-minute period, which, of course, I give you the opportunity to do, but it is my duty to warn you that there is a general debate on a bill with a given title, which I will not read in the absence of time. With this in mind, Mr Gergely Arató is entitled to the floor in two minutes, DK. Here.
u2020-06-04-154	I fully agree with Mr President, according to the house rules, I have no other option, and I would like to say at the very least that Congressman Tordai did not make a two-minute comment, but this is only relevant from the point of view of the protocol. Therefore, I would not comment on the question of the Operetta Theatre, because it is only very metaphorically linked to the bill. But I have to respond to two cases involving the university, just because they're just how do I say it? Honorary questions, too. The harassment case you mentioned was investigated by the university and came to conclusions. I could tell you some cultural institutions that might need to follow your example. There is one that the government has just taken over, so you have the opportunity to put pressure on the government as head of the committee responsible in this matter. On the other hand, I was just saying that it is wrong that it becomes a political matter and a matter affecting the judgment of the university, and it is also a case that attacks the leadership of the university when a student has a political opinion. This is precisely an attack on university freedom, university autonomy and otherwise the public interest I consider to be related to intellectual existence. Of course, I know that all authoritarian regimes hate it when college students have an opinion, there is no big difference in that, whether it is on the right or on the left, but I think that, by the way, we in this House must defend this kind of freedom and not attack it. Finally, honourable Member, I fully appreciate your university experience, and I am sure that you can help the University of Theatre Arts with a number of important professional considerations, but I would entrust it to the university, once again in the spirit of university autonomy, to decide how to teach at this university. I wouldn't dare comment on that.
u2020-06-04-155	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP!
u2020-06-04-156	Thank you for the floor. I have the courage to address this debate with the courage to speak even after the agenda, so I can stay here long enough. The fact is that I would like to respond to my fellow Member Hollik in the same way that I do not want to mention in relation to the Operetta Theatre that anyone who plays the Countess Marica in this way may think of the nation, but not the nation that you consider to be national, my fellow Member. For example, Béla Pintér is constantly told about what a terrible creator he was, and he received state money, which he did very well, but it is because of the fact that on the columns of the Magyar Nemzet they tell us what a terrible person he is. In the same way, they tried to replace Tamás Jordán on a political basis from a theatre directorship, for example, and on a political basis there was a theatre appointment at the National Theatre. And yet it is that those who often disagree with you can create works of art that form part of national culture, I say that I recommend to Béla Pintér a piece called Our Secrets, which I believe is one of the most beautiful processes of the Kádár system, and yet it is about what the dance house movement was like in the, the '80s. And this wasn't done by a man who then tells us how much he likes to vote for Fidesz, but this cognitive dissonance isn't my job to resolve, it's yours to resolve, and then, with a collective psychotherapy, we're closer to the national consensus. I would just like to ask my fellow Member to use the word national consensus conservatively. In relation to national culture, talk about national culture when it is long enough to decide what it is and what it is not, and not you to decide it here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-157	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, in a normal speech! But I know that normal means two normal minutes. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2020-06-04-158	Just for your sake, Mr. President.
u2020-06-04-159	That's right, that's right.
u2020-06-04-160	Well, we've been celebrating the day of national solidarity for ten years. Dear Congressman Pósan. Some things you don't like to talk about. Indeed, we live in a country where I am the only politician who has openly talked about what happened to him after thirteen years. I did so because I felt that I owed to those who were similarly abused to this kind of abuse, and they felt that we had something to do in this regard. So the truth is, I'm not very happy that you were talking about it the day after this otherwise beautiful holiday meeting. The other thing you may not know is that I am one of the few people who attended the professional seminar entitled. Cultural Goods and Services in Foreign Trade, and I dealt with Hungarian whole-night films more than 30 years ago. So I think that the Hungarian creators know an amazing amount of value, and I experienced it from a close-up when I was twenty years old. I also know for sure that what Andy Vajna did in the area of which he was an expert, he did not choose who was a good filmmaker. He only looked at one thing: who can make a decent movie. If we can stay in this direction, then, of course, everything has more value. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-161	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Akare, anyone else say anything? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Secretary Bodis, as rapporteur, if he would like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-06-04-162	Mr President, I respectfully welcome you. When we started the agenda, the President did not chair me, so I wanted to start with that. The other thing is that when dealing with higher education, we must surely thank all the actors in higher education for their positive reaction to the virus situation, which is an experience for all of us today. It must also be said, and this is the truth, that these solutions and methods were not consistent methodologically, but the system responded, responded well, but were consistent and of high quality in attitude, perseverance and momentum. I think we should thank them for that. Thank you very much. [[21.30]] The other thing was that, yes, several speeches said that we had reached a stage in the series of model changes, since we had recently come here in connection with six universities, and thank God, then we did not realize that we had come from political motivation. Now, for some reason, it's come up, obviously there's a reason for that. But I'm asking you, if we were political, why didn't we start with that? We could have started with this, as the idea of changing models has been available in higher education for years. I myself, three years ago, even four years ago, fought for it, and now I'm in a position to do something for it. But why? I don't think it's a miracle, but I do know what it's like to work in a state college model today as a university leader. By the way, it could and could have been well, and you have to admit it. At the same time, however, there were a number of barriers to being able, for example, to make good progress in internationalisation, but we were able to take action. Were we as good as we wanted to be? No. Universities not only have the task of educating the intellectuals in different fields, but there is a need for scientific work on them, and now scientific work is not enough, but also a need for innovation. Here is the problem, which, by the way, is the biggest commitment in the current system. When I became a rector in 2010, there was a special situation in Pécs, I didn't want to bring him here, but I had to come up from a particularly difficult situation, and then I experienced... sorry, I even got the warning to forget the companies, try to put them outside the university gates. That was more or less successful. Today, however, the need for innovation reveals a different methodology and a different movement. I think that the fact that, in the context of the change of model, the foundation will receive maintenance and trust rights and, in fact, even founding rights here, this will certainly give the board and the university all the means to respond more quickly, better and more appropriately to the expectations that I have outlined here. I wanted to say this in general. Taking into account the speakers, which is not explained by generality, I would like to respond to them. Thank you, Mr Pósán, for your support. At some point, I would like to point out that there was a wage increase, the wage increase will take place twice in 21 and 22 but not individually, but in a wage increase. Of course, there will be criticisms that some people have only received 2 percent, some have 40, but I think by introducing a benchmarking system the possibility of financing real performances at fair value. Congressman Brenner Koloman has raised several points. He does not understand the market environment of the University of Theatre and Film Arts. And I don't understand the suggestion, because why do we think that entertainment is not a market environment, and that is the broadest interpretation of it. Why do we think that if we look at a movie from the newborn to the 100 - year - old to the actor, why not a market environment that can employ and involve everyone from the student to the teacher, and thus bring it to another income opportunity? So I think that's not a problem. Effectiveness. No one claimed that the university in its current form is not effective, does not work effectively, but could also function more effectively. He could meet the entertainment world and, by the way, an artistic need as well as what he currently has. I myself highlighted all the positive aspects of the university in my expo, which, by the way, Ms Zita Gurmai placed special emphasis on both the historical and all other aspects, and thank you for your contribution. But you still have to answer Congressman Brenner's question. The appointment or no appointment of the rector came up in more than one speaker. Yeah, it's a slowly over a year and a half story. The rector's application was announced, in the first round there were two applicants who did not meet the conditions for the call. At every meeting, every meeting, this was the first aspect that the university representatives brought forward. They thought that a university could be run by a university professor, and I said, and I still think that this good attitude, a university should be run by a university professor as a rector. Then comes the next round, in the meantime two applicants, the former two applicants became university teachers, we did not hinder them, we supported them to become university teachers. The rector's application went through, and, yes, it would've been a term of appointment. In the meantime, however, it is now possible to postulate that this is discrediting, not discrediting, but I would say that there was an internal investigation, that we were involved in the internal investigation, that the Vice-Rector, the Vice-Rector exercising rector's rights, invited us, one of my competent colleagues on this committee of inquiry, and that was where the decision was made. I think that particular case was handled well by the university. Not everyone thinks so, but I believe that, I believe. However, in previous years, a similar story, there was still an investigation, and then a code of ethics was established. The code of ethics was there, it was there in their everyday life, and then this next case came. I put it that way, and everyone was offended by it, but I can't say better, that the specific case, I don't say name, the second one, which we were involved in, was handled correctly by the university, but the treatment of the phenomenon was not successful. Because, as a lesson to the previous case, a code of ethics was supposed to be like a Bible, so it's absolutely relevant, and there's another case that triggers investigation, all kinds of press coverage. That's why I couldn't put it any other way, no one was offended that the phenomenon couldn't be dealt with. In this situation, if we appoint anyone now, the successful rector, we will put him in an impossible position. The change of model does not take place to solve this or to solve something else, we started the model changes, we thought it would be best to do so as soon as possible, that a professional grenade, the board, would perform the tasks that are now connected to us. [[21.40]] By the way, I would like to see a period of time and a bill that, when such foundations are made public, what kind of reactions could be triggered. I don't think this is a typical case of privateization, while the private university category is, according to today's concept, what we've gone in, but the real private university direction is to capitalize the Corvinus direction with everything. These universities retain the state umbilical cord in funding, and in three-legged funding, by the way, their current assets are actually allocated to the university. This came up the other day. I can't tell you anything else right now. I am sure that public procurement can be resolved in many ways, but here I see that in any case difficult in Hungary, Member Brenner Koloman has also mentioned this. Mr. Harvester... [[By looking at his notes:]] Oh, no, sorry, there's the other side. I would like to thank Mr Hollik very much for his supporting comment and for his response to several political points, which spared me these kinds of answers. I also thank Mrs Zita Gurmai for her contribution. I think it's his side of the 30 percent wage increase. That's twice a 15-percent wage increase, just to make sense of it. Perhaps there was a wording that this solitude was a waste of spiritual strength, something of this nature. I believe that this is not a waste, but the strengthening of that spiritual power, the living with it, is a positive opportunity for the institution. Mr Harvester, I think I have answered a number of things, but perhaps I would like to mention the intention. The intention is clear, by the way. The intention is absolutely clear in that we want to go towards a system that allows for a more flexible response to the challenges of the age. That's not the kind of shady intention he had to have political motivation. I think, as it is a story of a change in the model for higher education, Secretary of State Péter Fekete, that he could not have been able to represent and present the model change in such a way here. Obviously, we wanted to discuss the aspects of culture much more, but not cultural matters here, but at least to raise the replacement of the world of actors, directors and cameramen into a different dimension. I would also like to thank Mr Tordai for his contribution. Actually, we met once in the hallway when that pirate or paparazzivideo made with me from his phone; otherwise, it went well, and I am grateful. I'm sorry you took it from the beginning that I introduced myself, because that was the right thing to do, because that was the first time we met. With regard to your comment: well, you can citate the Origo and anything else, but otherwise, I also think the Index could have been used in this respect. I think that what ideas about the art higher education institutions were, that a foundation, four universities apart, had been like this before, that integration was already rejected by all serious political manifestations and thinking. Here, about a year ago, it was decided that there would be no integration, that we would go towards a change of model. This is why we wanted the University of Theatre to be on the agenda as soon as possible, that's what the whole story is about. I told Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm the other day that it was very difficult to be a lawyer, and I am not doing it now, but I am glad that I said the right thing at the time. But for all the other reasons, I can tell you that sulcus tendinis musculature flexoris hallucination longi. So I understood about as much of it as you might, but, you know, to say that if you're in an area you don't know, you involve experts. There's a team of serious lawyers that I trust that what you've written is good, but what you've suggested may be something you should think about. Thank you for the confidence that we will come back with proposals for amendments, because this is in fact an advance of trust in wanting to do good, and I am grateful for that. After that, there were two minutes of people who responded to each other, and I don't think I'm doing that. Thank you all for your active participation in this debate, thank you for also evaluating the material from a professional point of view. I trust that we will take the fate and chariot of the university in the right direction, and I hope that there will be a beautiful chapter in the life of the university if Parliament accepts it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-04-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Please leave the room in accordance with the information provided by the Director General, so as to ensure the protection of everyone's health. This was written with some optimism by the House's leadership. It does not apply to the person who is going to speak after the agenda. The first among these will be Mr Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, with the title "The Queen of the West" 12. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-164	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Today was the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, and we are at the end of that meeting. The fact is that we need to talk about how the Trianon peace dictator did not respect the Hungarian people's right to self-determination, and from this point of view I would like to say something of local historical relevance. The fact is that a lot of people have heard about it, and it is very well taught in Hungary that Sopron was the city of national loyalty, and Sopron was the city that, by keeping the self-determination, was able to decide in a referendum to belong to Hungary, and thus received the title of Civitas Fidelissima, so it became a city of loyalty. However, very few people know that there were Hungarian villages besides Sopron, which had a very similar fate. This includes St. Petersburg, Ólmod, Narda, Felső chatár, Croatian shooter, Iron Cross and Pornópáti, Vas county. These were also settlements that were originally intended to be attached to Austria, but as a result of the public protest and then their will, they were attached to Hungary, and therefore, if Sopron is the city of loyalty, they can be called the villages of loyalty. So I think it is important to say that in March 1923 these villages wanted to belong to Hungary. We are very happy that they did so, and we are very happy that we can live in one state with the people in these villages, and we can grow Hungary together. Thank you very much. [[21.50]]
u2020-06-04-165	Thank you so much. It's very fair that you told me. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent, next up:, which was left out of the ceremony. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thirty years ago, on 4 June 1990, at the parliamentary session at that time, Speaker György Szabad said: "My fellow Members! My fellow Members have come to me from several sides to remember today the 70th anniversary of the tragic peace in Trianon with a one-minute silent standing. Please, my fellow Members, stand up. At this point, the representatives of the Fidesz fraction left the room. If it wasn't for another time, at least today, on the 100th anniversary, where we were really in a nice meeting, I would have waited for at least one of those participants to say half so that maybe we weren't thinking enough then. I often ask whether that was the truth, or today was the truth. Because they can't both be true. If I look at what we have heard many times today at the ceremony, that we have heard a political statement from the pro-government representatives in order to accept this on the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, and with this writing we try to remember the historic event in some way, we try to reconstruct what the situation of the Hungarian people is like today; this political statement calls on the governments of the European Union and the neighbouring states to ensure that if this is the day of national solidarity in Hungary, then the activities of the unity of the Hungarian nation should be carried out by these organisations. I gotta tell you, there's one thing I've really missed about the celebration and the words today, and that's the soul. We can write anything, we can give scientific essays about identity, Hungarian identity, belonging to the nation, about national consciousness, if we do not consider that there is no line to replace the sounds of the soul, the real identity of the soul, the national identity. The Hungarian nation is determined not by paper, not by political statements, but by the spiritual attachment of belonging to this nation, and there is no such citizen, such a citizen, left-wing, liberal, far-right, far-left, but by Hungarian. It is extremely important to me, and I will constantly push for it in my political activity, and today, at the festive session, I think we have made a very big step forward in this, that one cannot take into account the political commitment that one has, the only thing that matters: living with a Hungarian soul, speaking in Hungarian, thinking with a Hungarian brain, caring for his Hungarian mother tongue, and cultivating Hungarian culture throughout his life. This is the only thing that matters, because if we don't start from this, we will never, ever, ever be able to train the bridge in spirit that connects us to our stranded countrymen across the border, nor can we build a bridge that connects us to our countrymen who are emigrated for economic reasons. Because it should never be forgotten that at that time three million of our countrymen were trapped outside, and nearly one million have left today's modern Hungary to thrive elsewhere than in their homeland. What I would like to say is that if the government did not share outside the country, and did not have different political forces to draw each other apart, if in the electoral procedure it did not distinguish between Hungarians abroad, foreign or emigrated, then it would not have been that in Slovakia there is no longer a Hungarian representative in the parliament, in Austria there has been no Hungarian MEP in the parliament for a very long time, in Ukraine there is no Hungarian MEP in the parliament, in Croatia there is no Hungarian representative, in Slovenia there is only four Hungarian representatives in Serbia instead of the previous six, and it is still very fortunate that there are at least 21 MEPs from the Hungarian nation in Romania. So, I just want to tell everyone that we don't need the speech, we don't need the paper, we don't need the political statements, we need the soul. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-04-167	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, notary of the National Assembly:.. How did Mihály Varga betray the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The citizens of the district, the voters of their own constituency? You can address your statement after the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-06-04-168	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Let us be understanding, because it is really difficult to be the finance minister of a country and the parliamentary representative of a single constituency. Mihály Varga is in this position, he is the representative of the 4th Constituencies of Budapest here in the Parliament, the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He should represent a significant proportion of district residents. Usually, this dual role is difficult because there is this saying that every saint is inclined toward himself, and as Minister of Finance, he must stand to bend towards himself to over-reciprocate his own constituencies. Well, Mihály Varga has done that in recent years. Other areas of restraint are not doing so well anymore, today's news is that the Ministry of Finance's move to Castle has more than doubled and will cost almost 55 billion forints to Hungarian taxpayers. This is also represented by Mr II. more than the two-year budget of the district. Here, restraint failed, especially if we know that the entire ministry cannot even fit into this amazing, astronomical sum renovated or rebuilt building. But Mihály Varga is now facing a different type of challenge: he was in an awkward position to choose the citizens who sent him to Parliament, the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. between the will and interests of district residents, the promises made to them and their loyalty to Viktor Orbán. What happened last October was that in Budapest, both II and III. Gergely Christmas as mayor, Gergely Őrsi as Mayor II. District and László Kiss as III. The district mayor became the head of the local government following the wise decision of the district and the metropolitans. And, well, it is very difficult for Viktor Orbán to swallow this, and we can see that ever since then there has been considerable energy from government that has been committed by vengeance against the opposition and the opposition-led municipalities. What is very sad is that the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic is also being used by the Prime Minister to complete this revenge; and when he hijacked the car tax or suspended the transfer of parking revenues and tourist revenues to the municipalities, we saw that it was good, it was okay, these may be temporary measures, but now that Mihály Varga submitted the draft budget for 2021, we saw that these measures would remain with us on a permanent basis. The car tax will continue to be fully taken over by the state instead of local authorities next year and, most importantly, the solidarity tax has been increased nearly fourfold. So they take 160 billion forints away from the municipalities, and the capital, the II. and III. district must equally very seriously take its part unfortunately. Just to look at the numbers: The government withdraws 1.5 billion a year from the district, with the epidemic, a total of HUF 3 billion next year. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. in the district, these numbers are 2.5 and 5 billion. About the eighth of the budget for both districts is gone. The same was true of Budapest, one in eight forints, to which the people of Budapest can say goodbye. And this is not a punishment for municipal leaders, because this may result in fewer buses and trams; they do not regularly take away garbage, but there will be trash parks and roads; and there will not be enough kindergarten teachers, nursery nurses and nurses in kindergartens and crèches; and there will be insufficient basic health care; there will be no social benefits or academic scholarships for talented students, as has been done so far. This will be the result of Viktor Orbán's criminal policy. [[22.00]] I'm also the II. I live in the district, in the 4th constituency. I'm talking to a lot of people, and I see that they don't understand what's going on, and they're disappointed that Mihály Varga betrayed them that he's punishing his own voters just because it's what his boss wants. We know that "Fides" means loyalty in Latin. So far, they may have said that this is loyalty to their own promises, loyalty to their constituents, but it has now become clear that in the case of Mihály Varga, loyalty to the leader of Fidesz is much stronger than the promise to his constituents, and responsibility to them. We're sorry it turned out this way. Thank you very much. [[Peter Ungár applauds.]]
u2020-06-04-169	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 8 June 2020. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good evening, good night, everyone. Minis
