u2020-09-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Adam Steinmetz will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with speeches before the agenda. Before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Member of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, As you said, Mr. President, basic income now, but not just now, but forever. Because, of course, the need for basic income becomes apparent to everyone in the crisis, then the social support that has already marked two thirds of the Hungarian people is increasing even more: they want income security, safety of life, introduction of the basic income that the Dialogue has been proposing for five years. But there are a lot of misunderstanding, and not only about the crisis, but also about the fact that many people believe that it is a crisis management transitional measure, but also about how it affects people, how basic income helps working people. In Fidesz media, they try to create a lot of tension between those living on the job and other social groups, but we know that the, you divide and conquer! The main principle of Fidesz governance. At the same time, it is important to be clear: basic income is a solution, an offer, a vision that does not share, but connects society. With the basic income proposal of the Dialogue, seven out of ten Hungarians can bring home higher incomes, and we will all see indirect benefits through the social effects of this. Let's see what basic income means for a Hungarian worker today! It means that anyone who earns a minimum wage today will bring home a net of HUF 107,000, bringing home HUF 166 thousand in 2021 with the introduction of the basic income, who will now bring home 120 thousand, will bring home 180,000, the 140 000 wage will be 200,000 net wages, and so on, up to the minimum wage. This means that those who earn humiliatingly low wages in the public sector today are nurses, social workers, museologists, and I could continue the line, unfortunately, almost endlessly, with the introduction of a 50 percent immediate wage increase. I know you don't have much for 60,000 forints. But let the Fidesz guys understand: I know that for you, it's an ordinary dinner bill for two people, and someone else is working for two weeks. But what this 50 percent means is that Viktor Orbán, or Lőrinc Mészáros, does not steal 200 billion a year, but 300 billion. That makes sense to you, doesn't it? Plus 100 billion forints, that's a lot. Well, it's also an item in a family's budget if an extra two weeks' pay comes in at the end of the month. The basic income is due to two thirds of the employees in the Dialogue model, even at the average wage level it raises incomes by HUF 30,000 at a gross wage level of 360,000, but even for a gross wage of HUF 500,000, it represents a gross wage increase of HUF 2000. We understand that this is symbolic; obviously, this step-by-step is important to ensure that as many people as possible benefit from the benefits of this institution, the more they feel and the wider the social coalition that will protect the institution of basic income, because stable democracy and stable democratic institutions can only be built on a strong social basis. If there is a strong social base, if there is life security, if there is income security, then there will be a strong republic, then there will be a republic that a figure like Viktor Orbán cannot break down in a few years. But let's keep going, 'cause it's not just for the workers. The next largest group of beneficiaries are children, under 18 years of age, of whom 50 thousand HUF is the basic income, since today only those who have been lucky enough to see the light of day as children of well-earned, large-family parents will receive an approximate amount of money. In a family model in Viktor Orbán, high income, many children 49 thousand forints state support for children each. But if there is no high income, don't give, God, can't work for one or another parent, in the half a million families where a single parent raises children or children, they can't take advantage of the tax relief, especially if they lose their jobs in the crisis, as has happened to about 15 percent of people in recent months. And then they give 12,000 forints. One child is worth 50,000 forints to Fidesz, the other is 12,000 forints. We say that all children are equally important, that all children should be supported, and that even when parents lose their jobs, the greatest need is support. For each child, the basic income is HUF 50,000. And for every pensioner, it is worth 100,000 forints, because we see that the pension system in which Fidesz has not raised the minimum pension rate since 2010 from 28 500 forints, there are 600,000 people living out of less than 100,000 pensions every month, without being ashamed of their old age, of our shame. These are the shames that need to be cleared up, so let's say that basic income is now and forever. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-09-22-3	[[The mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He mentioned some of the employees' groups in his speech, first of all...
u2020-09-22-4	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, you have no voice. I'm gonna need some help with your colleagues. Just give me a second.
u2020-09-22-5	Is that okay?
u2020-09-22-6	Yeah.
u2020-09-22-7	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, So first, I would like to respond briefly to your suggestion of pay for each social group, just for the sake of the facts. When your allies left the helm behind, the minimum wage was 73,000, now 161 thousand, and the government is determined to raise it further. If I'm looking at the minimum wage for the skilled worker, it's even higher. You mentioned the nurses in your speech. The wages of nurses will increase by 2022 by two and a half times, with the average salary of specialists already reaching the two-and-a-half-fold level, to which we do not say that this is sufficient, but you cannot deny that there have been increases. As far as pensioners are concerned, the government is about to rebuild the 13th month pension that your allies, your old-new allies, have taken away from them. Well, I can see that today is not the first time that you have re-installed the pot with the label "the basic" on the stove; it is worth once again in this House to clarify what the problem is with this proposal. By the way, we agree that we need to look for ways to further increase the Hungarian income levels, and those who do not get a job for any reason, how they can get a helping hand. But the basic income is not a solution, because the essence of the basic income is that people get very little money, not a small amount of taxpayers' money, that they do not have to work. So this solution does not encourage work, it can permanently keep people away from the labour market. In that sense, your proposal is a big leap into the past. There was a time, a time of your allies, a time of left-wing government, when it was worth living on welfare instead of work. Does anyone wonder, then, that there was a 12 percent unemployment in that period? This 12 percent unemployment has been managed below 4 percent. These two numbers, from 12 to less than 4 percent, are evidence in itself that the red light is flashing on such proposals and that we do not want such action. [[9.10]] Elsewhere, they did us the favor of introducing and seeing the experience; for example, in Finland, there was introduced in 2016 with a trial character. The parties and trade unions agree there that the experiment did not work, not because they spent billions of forints on it, but the employment did not improve. Moreover, they saw that the deficit would disappear if this measure were introduced to a greater extent. And by the way, when you talk about such proposals, please add what kind of tax increases would cover the resources. We know very well that your party is thinking about tax increases, such as re-introducing multi-key income tax, which, as we well remember, means up to 36 percent tax rate. We also know... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Allow me, Congressman, to go through with this. I've given you the same respect that I've listened to. I'll listen to you when you're lying. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So please make it public, tell the Hungarian taxpayers what taxes they would raise to raise the source of such measures. [[Bence of Turda: None!]] Who's supposed to raise the money. [[Bence Tordai to Lőrinc the Butcher!]] To sum up: you support the principle of "help" instead of "work," and we are thinking about job creation and instead of "aid" in the principle of work. I do not see our positions coming closer, but this does not mean that the government does not have measures to raise wage levels or create new jobs. Allow me to mention a few. But even before I do, I would like to say that Hungary did better in the second quarter than the EU average: Spain, France and Italy also have a higher economic slowdown. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Wage subsidies, investment grants, tax cuts, permanent and temporary tax cuts and the credit moratorium have helped over one million families in recent months. That is why we can say that there are as many people working now as there are before the outbreak in January. We know, of course, that further steps are needed, which is why the government has decided to extend the credit moratorium, which will provide substantial assistance to more than one million people, 1.6 million people. So, to sum up, we do not agree on the basic income, but you can be sure that these economic steps will be followed further. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address:, The Government has learned nothing. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the next seven years, Hungary will receive more than HUF 18 000 billion from the European Union, which is 80 percent of our annual budget and 40 percent of the country's annual GDP on the 2019 base. That's about the size of a Marshall aid, a huge source that the government shouldn't be wasting, it shouldn't be handed out, it shouldn't be put in friends' pockets. Therefore, the LMP demands that the Government submit to Parliament in this session a plan detailing the use of EU funds, just as we demand that the Government submit a supplementary budget at the beginning of the session, since it is already apparent that the 2020 budget, but also the 2021 budget, has become unsustainable. The epidemic situation has clearly shown that the Hungarian economy is vulnerable and unsustainable, and cannot be based solely on the automotive industry and luxury tourism. Production has collapsed, inflation has vanished, basic food has become priceless without reducing VAT. I've told you many times, but the government didn't hear you: we have to change. But perhaps the government heard Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission's year review. One important point of this speech was to support the green economy and change the EU climate target. To date, CO2 emissions have been planned to be reduced by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 emissions levels. According to Von der Leyen's announcement, the Commission's new target is expected to be the 55 percent reduction. In the past, when we submitted a proposal for a decision on the creation of the Climate Law, we proposed that climate neutrality should be achieved by 2040 instead of 2050, but not by 55 percent, but by 65 percent compared to 1990. We see that the Commission's objectives are not excessive at all, they must be supported, especially when we think about how fast the climate is changing and what very serious negative consequences it has. In view of this, it is clear that EU funds should only be spent on crisis-resistant and sustainable development of the country, such as the protection of natural resources, renewable energies, renovation of buildings, organic agriculture, Community transport, waste management, strengthening of the social system, education and health. The EU budget of 18 000 billion cannot be wasted on luxury spending and the enrichment of the fidesz moonyard. Not even because it's part of a loan that needs to be repaid to the younger generation. We know that this 750 billion loan and the part of this loan must be repaid between 2028 and 2058. For this reason, European Union funds can be spent only in such a way as to be useful for the public, for programmes such as the elimination of social problems, the repair, strengthening of health, the social and educational sphere, renewable energy and energy efficiency by renovating buildings, the environmental management of water and soil, as I mentioned earlier, the protection of natural resources, the development of public transport and the background industry and, of course, sustainable waste management. With the development of Hungary in this direction, Hungary could also be prepared for the ecological and climate crisis, which is unfortunately here, because it is the most threatening process of our time. If we don't spend resources on this, it's sinful omission and waste, assassination not only against our children and grandchildren, but also against ourselves. On this basis, we call on the Government to present to Parliament, in this session, a plan detailing the use of EU funds and to discuss them in the form of real consultations as broad as possible. The current government has not been authorized by anyone to squander the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-09-22-11	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary receives an awful lot of EU money; nearly half of our spending framework can grow; Hungary has achieved what it wants, it has actually achieved everything it wants, some quotes from a psychic that is not at all pro-government, which you may accept. The fact is that you are making noise and talking about this because the left has made a huge mistake: you have been trusted in Brussels and Brussels has failed you, and the left is doing everything in its power to blacken Hungary in front of the European Union and the world. The left was working against the Hungarian people at home and in Brussels, and now they're looking for a way out of their desperate situation. The fact that a word could not be heard from you at the time of the conclusion of the agreement clearly shows that a letter could not be read on the Balliberal media scenes about another Hungarian success. [[9.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is, and this is a sad situation, that you also joined forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc Gyurcsány in the lead against Hungary. Because the conclusion, honourable Member, is that Ferenc Gyurcsány can now do to you whatever you want to do to you, because they do not look at the interests of the nation and not the Hungarian families, but put everything under their own petty political goals, God, Hungary, people and Hungarian families. You would be satisfied if Hungary were to receive less money, and if Brussels were to dictate exactly what to spend these forints on. They would give up national interests in finance, economy and immigration policy. You want a weak and cowardly Hungary back on the left, on which only you can rule with the help of your foreign masters. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have also seen in recent months that the European Union is losing its EU character in crisis situations. At the time of the outbreak of the Crown Virus, Brussels acted like a lame duck, and it became clear that in a crisis, only the response of the nation state could function. That is, the fever dreams that are represented on the left of the European United States [[Erzsébet Schmuck: We never said we were LMP!]] Yet Ferenc Gyurcsány, who represents this on the left, does not work and does not work in the real situation. Only national responses were available against the corona virus epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary has used the EU and not EU development resources well in recent years, as these resources are not donations, but they are indeed ours. When we think about developments, we do not think about independent EU developments or investments from domestic development sources, but about what developments Hungarian families, Hungarian people need, and we are looking for adequate resources for this. This is especially the case, and this is a common left-wing tops when it comes to EU funds, because these money is actually our money, especially when it is otherwise covered by a joint European borrowing. These resources must also be seen as our own development options, and we must make the investments that Hungarian people and Hungarian families need. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Heads of State and Government of the European Union have indeed agreed over the summer on the financial and budgetary system for the next seven years, which consists of two parts: a framework that can be used for normal purposes, including from cohesion sources and a financial basis that can be used to mitigate the effects of the coronal virus epidemic. At the EU summit, Hungary achieved its goals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, MEP, DK-group, spoke with the title "Active affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It is a shame and a shame that, in the middle of the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, the opposition must force the government to test it free of charge in this country, so that all citizens have free access to the test. It is a shame and a shame because with this proposal, with this thing, the government should actually have come and even implemented it six months ago at the outbreak of the epidemic, and it is a shame and a shame because the health law also contains in black and white the need for citizens to provide epidemiological screenings for free during the epidemic. I know it's weird for you to argue with the law, you like to make laws, but, let's just say, that's what's going on in the Health Act, honourable representatives of the government. What does this look like in another country? The government of another country cannot allow citizens to stay away from their jobs for 14 days, to stay at home, because they may have met with a coronal virus and had contact. In other countries, governments cannot allow children who go to school, kindergarten, and may have a co-coronal virus in their group or in that community to stay at home for as long as they cannot test because of the government or in any other way. What are they doing in the West? They test, test, test, and test, gentlemen and ladies, free of charge, from state resources, anyone who needs it. You're shaking your head, Mr. Secretary. That's the thing. It is not possible for a German worker and his government to stay home for 14 days or for as long as possible, but he will receive a test from the government, free of charge. And the same can be done by a college student in Amsterdam and his family when they're meeting with a coroner. That's what's going on in the West, gentlemen and ladies. In fact, access to the test is carried out at much simpler, permanent and temporarily established screening points. Imagine, in the rotting West, there's even a car drive into a parking lot, they don't get out of it, they take the test, and in a few hours, they get the test results from the given notification number. These things happen free of charge. What is happening in this country compared to this? In this country, we wait for those responsible to arrive at our apartment, make phone calls, try to get us tested stately or in any other way, and in the end, a lot of us go to a private company, and now we test ourselves for 20,000 forints. That's what's happening, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the opposition says, or says DK, that a referendum should force the government to make tests free of charge. Let me tell you one more trick, because it's a novum in the history of politics. I do not understand why the government does not boast abroad because we are constantly hearing how unorthodox solutions we use, how the Hungarian government does not follow the traditional route, so why does the government not boast that it actually has to pay for the test twice with a large number of citizens. Because there are tests in the country, we know that the government has obtained them from taxes paid by citizens and social security contributions, but they have never been issued by a test that is as low in proportion to the population as they are today in Hungary, so they do not issue them, so there is no testing. Compared to this, citizens, who have already financed a test from their taxes, are forced to leave and pay 20,000 forints on private roads to be tested. This is a world patent, gentlemen and ladies, that should be boasting, because there is no other country in the world where it is paid twice for by citizens. One word, as a hundred, can be done, gentlemen, for a while, until a referendum forces the government to make testing free for all Hungarian citizens, in any case, without restrictions and at the expense of the budget. That's what we demand. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-09-22-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-09-22-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Here, during the period of the war against the corona virus, the congressman spoke very violently. I thought I would quickly look at the list of Parliament's votes on how you voted, honourable Member, when you had to vote on adopting the Crown Virus Act here in Parliament. There was a bill for that T/9790. and you've been pressing the "no" button. There were opposition representatives who did not take part in the vote. When it came to creating the opportunity to react quickly and defend quickly against the coronal virus epidemic, you, along with your fellow Members, came in here and personally rejected everything, of course, with fellow Members who, when they were on the government, pressed a button on the introduction of a visitation fee and a hospital daily allowance. So they vote 'no' in the rapid defense against the coronal virus, 'no' in the introduction of the visit fee, and 'no' in the hospital's daily allowance. This is your commitment to a general, universal, highest level of health care. You guys would've taken rounds with everyone, and you'd still have to pick them up today. [[9.30]] I'm sure you don't believe us, but maybe you believe the WHO. The WHO has a statement of this on 20 September, one of the most recent, how widely tested in some countries of the world, and, indeed, in the case of Hungary, this ratio is higher than the European average if I compare it to certified infected people, since there are 33 values in Hungary, 34 in Hungary, but we are somewhat above the European average. We are leaving countries such as Portugal, Serbia, Ireland, Belgium, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Czech Republic, France, the Netherlands, Romania, Croatia, Spain and Sweden. If we look at how many other people we are testing besides an infected person to show that he may be infected, these countries are all outrun by Hungary at the moment, honourable Member. [[To László Sebian-Petrovski:]] You can shake your head, but I suggest you go up to the WHO website. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] and Worldometer's website [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: You're looking at the wrong data!]] And then you can see that testing is more widespread in Hungary than in these countries. And that is because, honourable Member, we are acting on the recommendation of the WHO. There is a recommendation for WHO worldwide, since all countries are affected by a coronal virus epidemic. That's why the head of office in Hungary told the WHO, Ledia Lazeri, that every day he is watching how Hungarian testing and Hungarian defence are carried out, that Hungary is carrying out enough coronal virus testing, and that the screening is effective. We didn't say it, it wasn't the members of the operational tribe, it wasn't a Hungarian person who said it, it was not a Hungarian doctor, it was the man of the WHO who looks at the Hungarian data and looks at the data of all the other countries and compares them with the WHO recommendation. He also said that what Hungary is doing is in line with WHO recommendations. You have to test it where the virus is active, he told you that. We are testing three times as many people on average compared to the WHO optimum, precisely to protect the health of Hungarian people, honourable Member, and these are completely free tests. You are also trying to spread the false rumor that most of the tests would be paid. This is obviously untrue, honourable Member, because the overwhelming majority of tests are free of charge, because for everyone who shows the symptoms of the coronal virus, we provide the possibility of testing free of charge. If you look at the official prices in other countries, you see that not only in Western European countries, but even in the Czech Republic, the official price or the price of testing is much higher by thousands of forints than in Hungary. And if you look at the numbers in Finland, you see that those who return from abroad will have to pay 60,000 forints for testing if they return from a foreign journey. These prices are much higher. Honourable Congressman, Don't make it look like it's not real that in other countries there is much different practice than in Hungary, because there is indeed free testing in other countries, but just like in Hungary: those who show the symptoms of the coronal virus or those who have very close contact with the coronal virus. In the overwhelming majority of countries, the same condition is for free testing to help people with these free testing symptoms. You referred to Germany and the Netherlands as examples of wanting to follow them. In Hungary, the number of deaths per million inhabitants is 70. In Germany, which you cited as an example, 113, and in the Netherlands, 363. I do not think that Hungary needs either DK or these numbers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-16	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, MEP Zita Gurmai from the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda:. What war is Viktor Orbán preparing for? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-09-22-17	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! I would ask Viktor Orbán if he were here to recall what his job position is. Interestingly, he hasn't been to work in oppositions for the eight years he's talked about, and he's not here now when he knows he's dealing with sensitive issues. I'm going to have very sensitive questions. Mr. Prime Minister, Please remember what's written on your office door. I'll help you, Prime Minister. He's not a general, he's not a general. You're supposed to govern a peaceful country in peacetime, but you seem to be incompetent. You're constantly using war rhetoric, not adversaries, but enemies. You're waiting for the virus in full armor. Of course, you could say it's just rhetoric. Ten years ago, we got used to you using empty, big words. Unfortunately, what is happening is telling us something else. An institute funded by the Fidesz government, the Centre for Fundamental Rights, published an advertisement containing an open war incitement in one of your favourite newspapers, National Sports, on 4 September. In the advertisement you can see the picture of foot soldiers storming with bayonet rifles with the following text:, Truth, strength, ascension Together we will make the Carpathian Basin great! And the Internet address below: keszuljek.hu. This institute is funded by the government. I ask the Prime Minister: what does the government say to the troops that are storming? What truth, what strength and what ascension do you promise with these armed, fighting men? Do you want to use weapons to make the Carpathian Basin great? You have taken over the password that can be read at the bottom of the poster: get ready, as this is how you closed your article in the Hungarian Nation. So get ready? Is this your new thesis? What are they up to? Don't you think this is essentially a vision of a civil war? Because the war picture and the word "prepared" say that you are not building a peaceful future at all. Prime Minister! There are peaceful people in this country who want peace and security. There is a reason why a petition was launched against this latest inciting war, because there have already been many and enough. You're at war against culture, science, enlightened education. Right now, he's leading a battle against the University of Theatre and Film Arts. But that's what CEU's campaign against free press was all about. They've taken over the Index, and they're making the Clubradio disappear. Because of your family photo, the editor-in-chief of 168 Hours was fired. Do you see enemies in everything that doesn't suit your delicate taste, your will? But let me remind the Prime Minister that you were not commissioned to wage war. You must increase this country; not your own family, your friends and your political propaganda machine, but your country. It is not the country, but only in your best interest, that the public TV that has been reduced to a political advertising factory will be filled with billions more. It is now about to increase its budget by ten billion, which has already increased by five times in recent years. When we expect an economic downturn of 7-8 percent due to the pandemic, when hundreds of thousands of people lose their jobs, their livelihoods, that's what you spend public money on, and war propaganda? However, with this current open war, they are far out of line because every mother is raised in the face of such insane propaganda: do you want to tell her sons that this is the future? That they have to grab a gun? That it's not about learning, it's about family, it's about having some kind of onioned, armed vision? Prime Minister! We see that you and your friends like to steal as much money as possible. However, I find it a despicable thing to sacrifice Hungary's peace and tranquillity for their own financial growth. Stop it, please, Prime Minister, because there is no money to protect you if you bring this country into tragedy. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-09-22-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is surprising that he rises to speak and misses the Prime Minister when, in my opinion, no one spoke more in this House than he did yesterday. After all, the meeting started by giving a report, then responding to the speeches of all opposition parties, then responding to the immediate questions of opposition representatives for an hour, and then you say that anyone is hiding or hiding from the opposition's questions. Well, no one answered me more yesterday, and no one spoke more than he did. However, your fellow factions seem to be hiding from you, because I don't see any socialist representatives in the benches of the Socialist Party right now, so it might be worth sweeping around your own house why your fellow socialist factions are hiding from you. [[9.40]] With regard to combat rhetoric, when you sing and sing the International at various socialist and internationalist-socialist gatherings, and say that this battle will be the ultimate, when you sing it, remember this speech today, that such combat rhetoric should not be applied, because the seeds of peace will be trampled by those who say such sentences. The starter of your internationalist fight, which probably has not been said ten times, not twenty times, and not a hundred times, has included this line every time, so please, from now on, listen silently to the Internationale, and do not sing, if this war rhetoric bothers you so much, and, by the way, distance yourself from yourself when you sang them earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are proud of our King Saint Stephen. We're proud of St. Laszlo. We're proud of the Hunyadi. We're proud of the Turks. We are proud of those who, as Kuruc, fought freedom against the Austrians, excuse us: the Habsburgs. We are proud of the greats of the reform that laid the civil foundations of this country. We are proud of those heroic soldiers, the 661 thousand men who defended Hungary during the First World War, defending their country. We are proud of the soldiers who have defended Hungary's freedom and independence in any century. And we wouldn't consider this a war rhetoric, but a national pride, because if these people hadn't given up their lives and in many cases hadn't sacrificed for their country, then neither you nor I would be here in this Hungarian parliament; there wouldn't be Hungary, but there would be other countries under the control of the Carpathian Basin. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Yes!]] These are the statues of these people in the corridors of Parliament. And they're high enough to look up to them. [[He's pointing his hands up.]] [[He's pointing his hands up.]] Just like we look up to them, and that's why they're in these commercials. And look at these paintings (Hand pointing up.) Those who are here have a sword on their side, but not because they demand war rhetoric, but because they defended Hungary's freedom and independence, or the independence of Hungarian people, the Hungarian nobility, the Hungarian nation. From the Golden Bull, you can see which scenes are painted on the walls of this building, and you can only look up at them because none of us would be here without them. These people deserve respect after hundreds of years. They're not supposed to be war rhetoric, they're national pride. We know your criticisms, even about the National Basics Plan, that there are too many winners and too few losing battles; and how to call István Dobó a hero, and then students decide that it is his hero who defends Eger's castle against the Turks and defends the remaining royal Hungary at that time. And in your criticisms, you cannot call the revolution of the nation the revolution of 56. What else can you call it? Who else would these people be and the '56 Pest guys as heroes? There are named heroes who you see here on the walls of this building, and there are anonymous heroes, the First World War soldiers, or the '56 Pest guys who fought for this country. We got this as a gift, especially for my generation, we didn't have to fight for it, we didn't have to hold a gun for it, even for our parents' generation. But these people had to, when they raised the Hungarian flag, the red-white-green, and went out to battle, and went out to fight with their lives, so that we would live here in a growing and peaceful country. And you're attacking these people and attacking the person who introduces them. And yes, they are role models, from St. Stephen to St. Laszlo, through Matthias, to the Pest boys, all of them are role models, and I say that much more should be done, from a lot more organisations, and it should be said in as many places as possible, not only in schools, but also elsewhere, that this is a role model, because your internationalist communism in this country has not built but destroyed. But these Hungarian heroes were able to make Hungary great, and we trust that many of these patriots will still be in Hungary, and they will again be the XXI. They can make Hungary great in the century and become the leading nation of the Carpathian Basin in Hungary, in economic and cultural terms, again. Long live the Hungarian freedom, long live the country! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: Long live!]]
u2020-09-22-20	I thank the Secretary of State for his heartfelt reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "The Hungarians" with three shields. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-21	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to demand with the superior rhetoric of the previous solo that yes, three shields protect Hungarian people in Hungary, because if anyone is open to nation state solutions, if anyone claims that a nation must pull itself out of the pothole by its own power, I am in this House since 2010. Also, fellow Members, when Fidesz-KDNP came up with very different principles. Where appropriate, when I spoke in order to resolve the situation of those injured in foreign exchange credit, he argued with the sensitivity of the banking system and was the answer to inaction and non-action. I wish this warrior rhetoric had still appeared and a little courage dripping into you. That is not the case, and we must now address a social cataclysm situation. Last week, there have been numerous alarms about eviction events, not only right-wingers, but also civil rights defenders, opposition representatives, activists, and although neither of us has the means nor the intention to intervene in legal processes, but we intend to bring the injustice back to the path of legality, some with legal aid, some with our efforts to assist in the placement of injured people, or, where appropriate, in moving them, or in refurbishing their homes. It is not necessarily our job, because you have the quote-marked cashier key, my fellow members of the government, but we see that, while during the eviction of Ercs last week, a 77-year-old woman suffering from end stage was wanted to be put on the street, one whose son serves this country as a soldier abroad, has not arrived the bravest Members, despite our call to the outskirts of Ercsi, and almost the tragic event that has not happened because even the enforcer said that this is his spiritual world many, and that 30-day extension will be voted for, as long as the elderly women can be placed on the street together by civilians and opposition. I believe that we are facing a catastrophic economic crisis. In such a situation, a moratorium on eviction would at least be imposed, fellow Members, until the end of the epidemiological crisis. We cannot expect people who have already been left out, often in a difficult situation, apart from their own faults, to manage these situations on their own, once again, in the midst of an epidemiological emergency, when it is very difficult for even working people to find a living, a job, and very difficult to provide a daily meal. That is why I welcomed the fact that a few days after Jobbik's call for this, the moratorium on loan repayment was at least partially extended. And if there are any Members here who are open to demographic, family-friendly aspects, I am, so I absolutely support the automatic extension of this moratorium in the case of family members or retired compatriots. At the same time, I do not understand why this could not be extended to all the social groups involved, why the banks, the financial institutions, have become stronger again, because we see that since they were confirmed in 2015, if not, this government has made a pact with the EBRD on the government's website and has given up Hungarian national interests in order to serve the interests of the banking system, since there has been some way in Parliament that solutions that would protect credit victims and Hungarian people at systemic level have not been created. And I still haven't been able to put together a full-scale mortgage moratorium. Obviously, Mr Secretary, you will respond to this speech before the agenda, and you will tell us how many people you have helped. Please also tell us how many social groups have been left out of this assistance. Thirdly, my fellow Members, perhaps, will receive it in reception hours, and by email here in Parliament, there will be no mention of the fact that the excesses of its executives are constantly affecting people in the spring quarantine situation and in the current epidemiological emergency. My proposal, Jobbik's proposal as a sensitive Hungarian people's party from a Christian social approach, suggests that it is not possible to impose executive bans on the smallest pensions and minimum incomes and the lowest salaries. I think that if people in this House are sensitive from a Christian social approach and I know that they are sitting, then this could be a common national minimum that we could all confirm, that our most difficult-ranking compatriots should not be subjected to such amazing pressures. It's infinitely unfair, and it's untenable in the unfolding phase of an epidemiological emergency. And I have to say, while the Fidesz-KDNP fighter is conducting a national rhetoric, and once again, I am not arguing with rhetoric as a national-minded man, yet I see that in his economic policy he is following a chemically pure neoliberal approach, and all of this is based on a Bolshevik rhetoric based on the demise of political opponents, and that is his ultimate goal. However, I am asking the respondents that Jobbik's triple shield, in relation to these three concrete factual proposals, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] try to manifest, share it with us [[The president's ringing again.]] how open the Government of Hungary is to its most important mission, to protect the Hungarian people. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-09-22-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-09-22-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't want to be bad, but if I wanted to be bad, I'd probably start by worrying about you and the Jobbik faction because they're doing war rhetoric with three shields. [[9.50]] Don't let your balliberal allies come after you like you're on the government side. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We'll box him!]] Don't make it a crime to instigate war here, Congressman, because then it's gonna be hard to keep that casual alliance around Szerencs together. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You're cute to be afraid!]] 'Cause things aren't looking good. But I do not want to detract from your question, because you mentioned an important issue, referring to the situation of those in need and to those who have lost their jobs in connection with the coronal virus epidemic. In this regard, I am glad that Jobbik, we see that he has changed direction day by day, but there has been another change of direction since yesterday, because at that time, Mr. Group leader was talking about the need to fight the government, and that is the most important task. Compared to this, I appreciate the initiative of the three shields, because it seems that at that time they have actually begun to think about what people need in connection with the coronal virus epidemic are in a difficult situation. I've listened to your suggestions, and I've seen your communications about it before, and I can tell you that this is a good direction, so we can agree here. The fact is that the government is far ahead of you and Jobbik's faction in these matters, because we were not engaged in political battles and cuts in connection with the management of the first wave of the epidemic, but we were trying to protect the lives, health and jobs of Hungarian people. As of spring, therefore, the capital and interest payment obligations of loans by private individuals and businesses were suspended until 18 March 2020. As early as spring, we have made sure that no interest rate can be charged, and that the subsequent start-up payment cannot become a greater burden, so the repayments will not increase. By the way, the spring experience shows that over 65 percent of retail clients, four fifths of corporate clients, made use of this option. This left over HUF 2000 billion to the debtors only 4.5 percent of this year's GDP, and even in the spring we have suspended evictions, seizures, tax executions in the context of the first wave of the epidemic, and, as we have done in previous years, similar plans exist in the winter period. So we're very happy that the Jobbik joins these cases. I'll tell you a few things here that you can join. As the Prime Minister announced a few days ago, this credit moratorium will be extended, which we ordered in spring for families with children, regardless of how many children are raised, in pensioners, in unemployed people, in public workers. These are the vulnerable social groups that most need government help. So they don't have to do anything if they don't want to pay. The moratorium is automatically extended. You only have to contact your bank if you still want to pay. In the case of businesses, it is also important to protect Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. They have to announce if they want to extend this moratorium, and now we have data at our disposal. So if we see that 25 percent of their income has been reduced in connection with the coronal virus epidemic, then you will get this extension opportunity. In addition, we have imposed a six-month notice ban on all household and business loans taken up before the start of the epidemic. We talk a lot about economic protection measures. We spent 9,000 billion forints on this goal at several speeds. I also think that protection measures are important. More than 200,000 workers have been able to help through the wage support programme, which you are also criticising, but we are not only trying to protect existing jobs, but our goal is also to help investments that create jobs. We did this for approximately HUF 500 billion, which contributed to the preservation of 150,000 jobs and to the creation of additional jobs. It is because of this that we believe it is crucial that employment is once again above 4.5 million, so we have reached the January level. We think that, while Jobbik has finally arrived and is already protecting workers from three directions, we believe that we should not only protect workers from three directions, but also from several directions, and we would like to ask you for help in this. If we get it, thank you, and if we don't, we'll do our job without it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-22-24	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the title of the maintenance of the functioning of the Hungarian economy. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-09-22-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The battle against the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic has been successfully fought by our country. According to international analyses, Hungary is one of the world's 25 most defensive countries. We are currently struggling with the second wave of the virus crisis, and the situation is not only imposing health and epidemiological tasks on the public administration, but also those of an economic nature. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that, in addition to the operational tribe responsible for the control of the coronal virus epidemic, the economic defence operational tribe has been set up, whose primary task is to identify and eliminate the administrative rules that control the re-launching of the economy and to identify and eliminate obstacles that restrict the activities of businesses. Ladies and Gentlemen, The adverse consequences of the coronal virus crisis have been mitigated and mitigated by complex measures taken by the government. In addition to tax and contribution reductions, efficiency-enhancing and competitiveness-enhancing subsidies, the economic protection action plan also protects the good results achieved in recent decades. The government has already helped 280 thousand workers with wage subsidies announced in the economic defence action plan to mitigate the effects of the coronal virus crisis. Nearly 18 thousand companies applied for the employment of 207 thousand employees, with a total value of nearly HUF 35 billion. Nearly 37 thousand businesses have applied for employment support of HUF 57 billion, which has enabled employers to provide jobs for 49 thousand job seekers. Tourism and catering, trade and manufacturing companies were the most interested in general wage support programmes. We Christian Democrats also thank the government for the importance of supporting those working in the competition sector in the field of research and development and innovation, as the performance of highly qualified professionals determines the future of Hungary. In the international outlook, nearly 1300 companies claimed a unique 40% R &amp; D wage support. The government has contributed to the preservation of almost 23,000 research and development engineers. The total cost of the aid exceeded HUF 17 billion. Most of the applications came from the university cities. Ladies and Gentlemen, This contributed to the fact that, while 4 million 458 thousand people were working in Hungary in January 2020, after the pandemic exploded in spring, after the employment downturn in August 2020, more than 4 million 500 thousand people could be working again in Hungary. The wage subsidies and other measures in the economic action plan have improved the prospects and training opportunities of around one million workers in total. I call on the honourable government representatives to continue to support the government's work. And I ask the left-wing parties not to continue where they left off at the time of the first wave, if they do not help, at least not to interfere with the protection against the virus. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.00]]
u2020-09-22-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The past decade has now proved to all of us that Hungarian people want and can make a living from work. Therefore, the government has done and is doing everything it can to protect as many jobs as possible, and yet the virus is destroying, to create as many new jobs as possible. To this end, we have also decided earlier on the launch of the economic protection action plan, which is indeed a historic programme, a historical package of measures, which, at its various stages, reclassifies about 20 percent of GDP. The results of this seem to be good, and he said these results in his speech, and allow me, therefore, to thank the Christian Democratic People's Party for their support in achieving this. Honourable Congressman, We won the first battle against the Crown Virus, but the left did nothing to do that, as you said, and the situation is much worse: wherever he could, hindered and tried to discredit the government's work. In fact, they are the ones who are completely discredited when they talk about protecting jobs, because we have seen a crisis that the left has tried to deal with before. They have put more and more burdens, more and more difficulties on people's shoulders, instead of helping and supporting them, let's just think about the Bokros package or even the 2009 cuts. The grace of God is that they do not defend themselves now, they do not shape economic policy, because then the Hungarian people should meet again what they have experienced in recent decades, when they have been on the government: they have abolished the 13th month pension, reduced the duration of the child, cut the family subsidies, raised the VAT, increased the retirement age, reduced the pension, took away a month's wages, wanted to introduce a property tax, and could still be classified for a long time. And what's at least as serious is that, in addition, they wanted the country with foreign, high-priced, big loans and they owed it to them. This, of course, has resulted in the consequences of this bad economic policy, which the left has been doing, as hundreds of thousands of people have been on aid and jobs have been lost instead of job creation, and those who have worked have also been taxed to death. And let us not forget that there are still 14 people sitting in the left-wing parties' fractions, who voted for it personally, who personally decided about it and who personally supported the taking away of a month's wage and a month's pension from the Hungarian people; and to this day, there are still people who voted in favour of paying health care, who supported the 5 percent increase in VAT and the introduction of tuition fees and property taxes. Honourable Congressman, Hungary must work, this has been confirmed by the national consultation, and that is why we are going on and on to fight for human lives, health and the economy, and to protect jobs. We're much more prepared to begin the second battle against the coronal virus. We know the enemy a little better, and we also have the authority that 1.8 million people who have completed the national consultation provide for the government's policy. The people expect the government to do so, it has been clearly revealed that Hungary is working and that the protection of people's lives and jobs should remain at the heart of our defence. That is why we have taken various measures, and that is why, among other things, we are running the economic operational tribe under the leadership of Minister Varga, which is constantly monitoring the situation of the economy and making proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, Fidesz Group, also asked for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At the end of the summer Hungary was also hit by the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, the epidemic, during which Hungary performed outstandingly during the first wave, against which Hungary won the first battle, because in every comparison Hungary was one of the 25 most successful defense countries in the world in spring. The secret of success was in speed during the first wave. We've taken all the measures in time. In the first wave of the epidemic, Hungary received a strain that only occurs under war conditions. In one week's time, we had to reorganize the entire state administration, introduce an extraordinary legal order, prepare our institutions to function in a state of war. Hungary has joined forces and we have successfully defended ourselves. Dear House, The virus is back on its feet now, but we're ready for it. We now face the virus armed to the teeth with six months of experience, scientific knowledge, research results and protective equipment, and we also conducted a national consultation between the two waves, where all Hungarians had the opportunity to express their views on the experiences of the first wave. More than 1.8 million people participated in the national consultation, despite the fact that the left has tried to make it impossible by all possible means. All the way to the left, leftists were stealing consultaries from the mailboxes. It's quite simply a shame! But the Hungarian people couldn't be silenced this time either. The opinion of nearly 1.8 million fillers on the control of the epidemic is clear. According to the vast majority of people, we cannot allow the virus to paralyze the country again, the economy, schools, everyday life. The Hungarians want us to defend ourselves effectively against the epidemic, but in the meantime, the country, the economy, must not be blocked, life must not stop. So the overwhelming majority of people feel that the same tactics cannot be applied as in the spring. Of course, as has been the case before, we must protect human life, but in addition to human lives, we must protect jobs and the normal routine of everyday life as much as possible. Dear House, We're running into another battle with all the means to save most of the lives of people, according to the state of medicine today. We're armed to the teeth against the virus. Today, there is no need to fear that anyone will be left without proper care, as Hungarian health care is also prepared to treat mass diseases. Right now, everything is available for defense, the tools we need are made by us, everything we need. The Hungarian health care system is prepared, and the operational tribe is meeting continuously. Unfortunately, as in spring, there seems to be only one person in common defense: the Hungarian left. In addition to the fact that opposition parties have not voted in favour of any measure that would have helped the country to defend itself, their propaganda funds have reacted from March to today to government measures to control the coronal virus epidemic by demanding the opposite of what the government has done. Sadly, not only did they talk nonsense and try to block the defense, but they consciously spread false news and even rumors. On June 8th, a video was released on the MSZP social media site, which was shared by party president Bertalan Tóth. In the video, a woman named the paramedic by MSZP was featured and lied with the help of Parliamentary Representative Lajos Korózs, thus trying to discredit Hungarian health care. Congratulations. Unfortunately, the lying on the left continues in the fall. After taking over the pseudo-intelligence of Népszava, opposition politicians spread out social media that at the Korány Hospital and St. László Hospital there were so many serious patients that the breathing capacity was full. Of course, this information also turned out to be false news. On 17 September, EMMI announced that neither Korányi nor St. László's Hospital was full of breathing capacity, and there is continuous care in the entire Hungarian health care system, and so it is now. [[10.10]] Once again, the left is the worse, the better, the tactics it will follow, and they will continue to be used in the future, and they will still not be expected in terms of protection. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction can and will ensure the parliamentary background of the epidemiological measures, because Hungary must work. The Fidesz fraction therefore fully supports the government's latest epidemiological measures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-09-22-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Benedek Jávor, head of office in Brussels, who used to be a representative of the left in the European Parliament and, according to my memory, in the Hungarian Parliament, commented on the coronal virus epidemic:, Relative, inexpensive, harmless epidemic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This was, therefore, the opinion of the MEP in Brussels who paid public money about what lies ahead. Well, it has been proven that migration is not a fake problem created by Fidesz, but a huge challenge and problem that shakes the whole of Europe in front of the continent, as has the corona virus epidemic not only created a situation that has not been experienced for the European continent, but for the whole world. You also referred to the national consultation. Just as Jávor Benedek said it was a relatively inexpensive and harmless epidemic, they also attacked the importance of consultation from the left as if they did not want to involve people in government. In the case of the second wave, the direction of government defence was set by the national consultation. It was an amazing and enormously irresponsible move by the opposition not to participate in this, but to call on people, their own supporters, to make it impossible to consult, and even at the beginning, it seems that they also wanted to use it for data fishing. And the people's opinion was clear. Of course, health protection is very important to them, but besides, as the Member said, they also said, they made it clear that Hungary should work. Life cannot stop in the autumn as in the spring, it was clear on the basis of the results of the national consultation, so restrictive measures should be imposed where the virus appears, but where there is no virus, only preventive measures should be taken, but no restrictive measures should be taken. This is why education was able to start in Hungary in autumn. We can remember that the left also attacked graduation, 83 thousand students were at risk of further education, but this autumn, with increased security measures, since every school received a recommendation during August, which included precautionary measures, which allowed teaching to start again. Every day, we monitor and examine at which school the coronal virus may appear, and in every kindergarten, each school will take appropriate steps, whether the maintenance or the operational tribe. Digital working arrangements may be established by the operational tribe. An extraordinary break was thus required in 0.67 percent of all kindergartens for yesterday's day, an extraordinary break in schools is required in 0.19 percent of all schools, in many 5 percent of the country's schools there is a department with a digital work schedule, so not the whole school is digitally organized, but there is a class in these schools. An institution with full digital working order, 0.29 percent. From this you can see that the attention is complete, but fortunately, there are still very few classes or schools where such extraordinary steps had to be taken. We are more prepared, because while we started the first wave with 1.6 million masks, we now have over 100 million masks. We started the first wave with 20 million pairs of rubber gloves, now we have 95 million pairs of rubber gloves. We started the first wave with 2,560 respirators, and now there are well over 10,000 respirators. Now we know and know how to gradually ensure the care of patients with coronal virus. At the moment, there are 10,000 beds in hospitals in Hungary, which can receive patients with coronal viruses, but we can increase this to 20,000, if necessary, to 30,000 if the epidemic spreads at a higher rate. The protocols are also clear: first, we concentrate patients in fewer institutions, because security of care requires this in those institutions and in other institutions, but if there are more patients, then, of course, there are other institutions, there are 22 other institutions that can open up, or doctors and nurses can be directed to where their work is most needed, while we also try to protect their health. It is very important that the government has made influenza vaccination free for everyone, not only by members of former protected groups, health workers, elderly, educators, but also by anyone. This is important because strengthening our immune system on this autumn is more important than on the previous autumn, and we are at much greater risk with the coronal virus if it can attack a weakened organism. The government is also trying to prevent the spread of the epidemic by making influenza vaccination free for everyone this year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I am ordering a two-minute technical break until the next item begins. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce and ask my fellow Members to stay in the Chamber, preferably only for the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers, given the epidemiological situation that has arisen. The debates can be followed by the internal television mediation system for all, and, of course, the chairmen shall keep the names of the following three Members who apply for the speech. Dear Parliament, The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[January 2017 December 2018]] The report and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption until closure. Government referral B/8328. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee is H/9465. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Soltész, the author of the report, and he will be followed in the line of speeches by Mr Imre Vejkey, President and rapporteur of the Justice Committee, and subsequently by Mr Brigitta Superák, a Ukrainian ethnic spokesperson. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[10.20]]
u2020-09-22-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for your patience. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable German National Assembly and Speakers of Parliament! The National Rights Act requires the government to review every two years the situation of nationalities living in Hungary and report it to the National Assembly. In compliance with the statutory obligation, the government reports to the Parliament for the period January 2017 to December 2018, but I add in brackets, this report was due to be published in the spring, but due to the Covid epidemic, less laws and reports came before the Parliament, which is why we have brought this here. For the sake of easier handling and clarity, the reporting period shall cover two full calendar years. This report aims to provide a comprehensive picture of what happened during the reporting period in the area of domestic nationality policy. It also aims to sum up the results of an exemplary ethnic policy at European level, a set of government initiatives and directions for the activation of ethnic communities. It also includes, of course, the implementation of our country's obligations arising from international documents, the international events of ethnic political cooperation. During the reporting period, the government's restructuring resulted in a change in the competences in the area of nationality policy, based on the Government Decree on the tasks and powers of the members of the government. Thus, the Statute states that the General Deputy Prime Minister is a member of the Government responsible for national policy. The Minister of the Interior shall, exceptionally, be responsible for the implementation of Article 40 of the Statute. In respect of the legislation listed in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, and in particular in relation to Roma nationality, it shall be considered as a member of the Government responsible for the national minority policy. In view of this, the relevant legislation has been adapted in accordance with the provisions of the Statute. It was also a novelty in the reporting period that during the parliamentary elections in April 2018, several nationalities chose new parliamentary spokespersons, and the German advocate, Imre Ritter, became the full representative of the German minority parliament in Hungary. Thus, through Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian ethnic advocates, as well as German ethnic representatives, all nationalities continue to participate directly in the work of the National Assembly. The Parliament, with the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, of which the representatives of nationality and the representatives of national minorities are members, has also increased the envelope for national minority appropriations in this period as well, thanks to effective cooperation. While 8 billion HUF 689 million was available in 2017 in the first year of the reporting period, the funding envelope managed by the ethnic field amounted to HUF 10 billion for HUF 378 million in 2018, which increased by about three times compared to the 2010 funding for this purpose. The amount of aid increased even further in 2019 and 20, but will be reported later. During the preparation of the report, the Prime Minister's Office's specialty in the field of national policy requested sub-materials, information and data from several co-organisations and from a wide range of other areas: government ministries, government secretaries, relevant specialities and background institutions; the metropolitan and county government offices; county assemblies; the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund; the national minority governments; the national minority spokespersons; the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights; the Equal Banash Mode Authority; the Central Statistical Office; the State Audit Office and the Institute for Minority Research Research of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Following the processing of the descriptions from each area, the report provides detailed information and data on the national minority policy processes, ethnic education, culture and media for the two years in question, as well as on the processes in the local government sphere to those interested in Parliament and the area. Dear Parliament, Some of these things, some areas, let me highlight. One of the most important things is education. National governments, 10 nationalities, 10 national governments hold schools, kindergartens and secondary schools. That's 27 institutions. The municipal authorities maintain an additional 60 kindergartens, primary schools or secondary schools. Education education plays a significant role in further education in the mother country, further increase in the nationality bonus during this period, free textbooks are completely natural, as they do elsewhere, and for all those in need or with large families, free or reduced meals. There have also been very big changes in the field of culture, even in these two years. If you look at Roma culture, the Muzsikáló Budapest started with the House of Tradition, then this extended the Muzsikáló Hungary mainly to help and support Gypsy musicians and to preserve their wonderful culture. Nationalist theatres, ethnic theatres, such as Serbian, German, Croatian, Slovak, Gypsy, Armenian culture, or through the annual ethnic theatre meetings, play a major role in the preservation of the culture, as well as the preservation of archival and museum values, but also the transmission of those values, in the sense that the transfer of the knowledge in it, as well as the construction of landscape houses and the assistance of the landscape houses. It is also important that I also mention a few thoughts about financing. As I said at the beginning of the report, there has been a major change in these two years, thanks to our joint cooperation in the budget. This meant an increase of 1.7 billion forints in two years, and in these areas perhaps some areas that I would like to highlight even in terms of applications, which helped ethnic organisations, civil society organisations and communities in a most important and important way. There was an increase of HUF 340 million in these two years, i.e. in 2018 we were able to distribute more than HUF 1.4 billion to nationalities in a tender. In addition, it is important that local authorities have had a small increase of 60, with HUF 43 million in this period, but in municipal municipalities, who are more than two thousand, there are 2053 and most municipal authorities are doing fantastic work, they could manage more than HUF 840 million in 2018 than in 2017. In the same way, it is important in the life of nationalities to provide education, culture and the preservation of the mother tongue, that is why it is important to renew places of worship, churches, cross-roads, or, for example, to help Christian Roma schools with regard to gypsies, or to organize real estate in Romanian or Serbian orthodox, which I have not yet said has not happened, but has now been completed in recent years. The role of the media after life of faith is equally important. This is also true of the public media, the day of ethnic culture, the celebrations of joys, the presentation of beautiful holidays, as well as the presentation of painful and sad memories, the horrors of the Roma Holocaust, or a painful period, the commemoration of the victims of communism, the German expulsion, the Slovak-Hungarian population exchange and all its pain and consequences. [[10.30]] To conclude: Honourable Parliament, honourable Member and honourable minority advocates, the work that we have done in these two years has also had a positive impact on bilateral relations, and this is important here in the Carpathian Basin. It is important, because we think in nation and nationality: when we think in a nation, we also have to think of the Hungarian nation and our fellow nations, when it comes to nationality, to the nationalities in Hungary and to the nations in neighbouring countries. It is therefore a joy that, as a result of our joint work, the relationship has been particularly good and strengthened in recent years, either in Croatian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian ethnic policies. In neighbouring countries, if there is still a shortage, obviously in the Romanian relationship, there has also improved in many respects and many joyful things can be reported. What is sad yet, and it would be good if there was a change, is the Ukrainian relationship, but it must be said that this does not represent the shortcomings of the Government of Hungary, not the nationalities of Hungary, or the bad attitude of Hungary, but unfortunately it depends on those countries, not on us. We will do our best and will continue to do our best in relation to the Romanian or Ukrainian ethnicities living here. Speaking of far-reaching countries, whether they are Polish, Greek or any other country, they are clearly well connected, at each trial, at each international meeting, they also highlight, whether the German partners, the Greeks or anyone else, what the Hungarian ethnic policy is, they thank us for this, and they also thank us for taking care of the culture, the language and the diverse value that you give this country. In many countries, they talk about how, how, nationalities should be treated: people are trying to account for it, people are trying to instruct and give ideas. The interesting thing is that in some countries where criticism may come from, they do not do a fraction of what we do in Hungary, and in other countries, where they do not do a fraction of what we do, they never do that, but we are used to that. Overall, I think that this report summarises the work of many, many, many hundreds, and the lives of many, many tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of nationalities. Thank you very much for letting us work together during this period and, of course, in this period. Mr President, thank you very much for your opportunity to speak. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur of the Committee, author of the proposal for a decision. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2020-09-22-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Imre Ritter, German Nationality Representative, Dear Speaking Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 150. § (a) requires the government to review the situation of nationalities living in Hungary every two years and report it to the Parliament. In accordance with the legal requirements, the Government's report on the period from January 2017 to December 2018 at the end of November 2019 is B/8328. Submitted to the National Assembly by the Judicial Committee as a committee designated at its meeting on 3 March 2020. Given that Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, has already made the proposal for a resolution and the Government's presentation in this regard in very detailed detail in his recent exposé, I therefore wish to inform this House of the committee's position. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the view of the Judicial Committee, the report informs Parliament, in accordance with the legislation, on the one hand, of the national policy processes of the last two years and, on the other hand, of the events of the last two years in ethnic education, culture and media, and, on the third, of the processes of the last two years in national governments. The Committee also welcomes the increase in the number of applications to be awarded by national authorities and the number of public education institutions they maintain. The Judicial Committee shall be composed of B/9328. He supported the adoption of the report by 8 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions, and proposed it to the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. Please, support me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This is now the speech of the rapporteur appointed by the committee representing nationalities. I give the floor to the Ukrainian ethnic advocate, Mr Brigitta Superák, the rapporteur of the committee, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-37	Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ Збори! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Dear House, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 150. According to paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Act, the Government reviews the situation of nationalities living in Hungary every two years and reports it to the National Assembly. On 29 November 2019 the Government submitted its report on the period January 2017 to December 2018 on nationalities living in the territory of Hungary, in compliance with its legal obligation. As a committee related to the debate of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, the National Assembly put it on the agenda at the meeting on 3 March 2020 and discussed it at B/8328. a report submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. Our Committee on Justice is H/9465. It agrees with and proposes to the Parliament to adopt its proposal for a resolution. The structure of this report follows the thematic outlines of the previous two-year accounts, addressing the issue of nationality in all its aspects. The three chapters of the report, the general description of the situation, the chapter on the situation of individual nationalities and the chapter on the further tasks of nationality policy also provide a detailed overview of the situation of nationalities, the government's national policy measures, taking into account all the decisions made by the realization of which we can talk about progress and progress in all nationalities. The report clearly and factually demonstrates the Hungarian government's aspirations: the survival, survival of nationalities, the maintenance of the mother tongue, culture, traditions of nationalities or the development of ethnic institutions. It is also an established practice, once the report has been drawn up, that the situation of individual nationalities is consistently described in a separate chapter. In this chapter, we can get a real reflection of the situation of each nationality, supported by facts and data. I can also say of the period covered by the report that there was exemplary cooperation, continuous dialogue between nationalities and the government, its State Secretary for Nationalities. The results of this partnership and professional relationship are reflected in the present reporting period. It should be pointed out from the period under consideration that a new governmental actor was already involved in the discussion of national issues, the decision making of nationalities, the implementation of measures to improve the situation of nationalities, as the government oversight of nationality policy changed between 2017 and 2018. [[10.40]] As a result of a restructuring in 2018, Roma affairs were transferred from the Ministry of Human Resources to the Ministry of State Secretariat for Social Affairs and Social Inclusion, while the other 12 nationalities were transferred from the EMMI to the Prime Minister's Office, where the Ministry of State for Church and Nationality Relations under the General Deputy Prime Minister's command. The reporting period also concerns parliamentary elections on 8 April 2018. Several nationalities have chosen a new parliamentary spokesperson, and German nationality alone has introduced a full nationality representative to Parliament. It can be concluded that the parliamentary representation of the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary is ensured, that through the activities of the minority representative and the minority advocates they participate in the work of the Parliament, are active innovators and actual shapers of the life of nationality. During the reporting period, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities started preparing for the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities, and also coordinating it with a professional wallet. The Committee, in agreement with national national minority self-governments, calls for a substantial revision of the legislation; in the codification process and in the professional agreement they also seek a comprehensive change of these important national laws defining the existence and functioning of nationalities. The intention of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary to amend the law was effective, as on the 16 June 2020 Parliament voted in favour of the 2011 CXC on the rights of nationalities, with 184 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. 10/10303 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. With the adoption of the amendment of the law, the opportunities of nationalities recognised as indigenous state-making factors will continue to increase in Hungary. It can be concluded that the amounts of support granted to nationalities from the central budget also increased during the period considered. The amount of central resources allocated to the operation of national authorities and their institutions has increased significantly. The source of legal aid has also changed, since it is no longer governed by a government decree, but by Annex 9 to the Law on the current central budget. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, recognising that the conditions for the education of national minority teachers do not always ensure the training of the necessary professionals in an appropriate capacity and quality, and that the number of national teachers completed is not always sufficient to ensure the appropriate place, number and quality of national education, thus the balance and predictability of the education of national minority teachers are at risk, and that during the period covered by the report, a complex national education and education programme has started to be developed for national minority students participating in the teaching, teaching and teaching course, which has since been introduced. In 2018, an increase and differentiation of the minority pedagogue bonus was launched, which since then was successfully completed on 1 January 2020. In 2018, additional support for national minority education centres was also launched. The Committee, together with the Klebelsberg Centre, has also developed a scholarship programme for national minority students participating in the education course. Another significant result is that the Annex to the National Public Education Act was amended by the Committee's own amendment. The increase in the nationality bonus was also achieved. The report provides updated statistical data on the state of nationality public education and education on public education institutions maintained by national and municipal self-governments, their functioning and funding, but, following the themes of previous reports, it also addresses the public education of nationalities, the issues of traditionalism, the culture of nationality, the life of national minorities in their native language, and the media of national minorities in their native language. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary also took international action during the period under consideration. On the one hand, at the meeting on 26 September 2017 he took a position on the conviction and action of the Ukrainian law on law-breaking education. Parliamentary resolution. On the other hand, it has joined the European Citizens' Initiative entitled Minority SafePack, initiated by FUEN, and its support is set out in Annex H/18032. The Parliament has received a proposal for a resolution. The resolution presented by the committee states that the Parliament considers the existence and survival of indigenous nationalities to be a fundamental value, the specific linguistic and cultural wealth created by them, and agrees with the efforts of indigenous ethnic communities to continue to thrive in their homeland. The National Assembly unanimously supported the NEB's proposal for a decision at its meeting on 31 October 2017. On the basis of what has been said above, I can say that the report is a clear proof of the basic legal wording that nationalities in Hungary are state-creating factors and are integral parts of the political nation. The language, culture, traditions of nationalities, and quite simply the identity of nationality itself, are values that enrich Hungarian society and which must be protected and helped. The measures described and implemented in the reports also serve this noble purpose one by one. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary agrees with and supports the adoption of the report. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуņза увагу!
u2020-09-22-38	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-09-22-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As I listened to the thoughts of Secretary Soltés and my fellow Members, Imre Vejkey, as well as the thoughts of the speaker, I think that they have explained and discussed quite a few of the main points of the report, so I would like to draw your attention to just a few more thoughts. I consider it very important that, after the change of government, in 2010, the Christian and national government decided to establish a very close cooperation with nationalities in our country. As we have already heard, it has been an exemplary result that here in the work of the Parliament, all nationalities have their own advocates, and what is more, in 2018, the German community in Hungary was able to send a full-fledged minority parliamentary representative to Parliament. We can therefore say that the report to be discussed is indeed a comprehensive picture of all that took place during the reporting period in the area of domestic nationality policy. [[10.50]] By reading the carefully prepared report, we can find that the Government of Hungary is giving outstanding support to indigenous nationalities living with us internationally. With regard to the reference period, we can see that there has been a further increase in the level of support for domestic nationalities. We've heard that, but I think it's good to repeat it. To support this with figures: the budget for national minority appropriations was HUF 8 billion 688 million in 2017, and in 18 it has already increased to HUF 10 billion to HUF 400 million. If we compare the data with the resources allocated for this purpose in 2010, then we can talk about a very serious increase of nearly 190 percent. I would also like to point out that all the commendable developments that have characterised the processes of national minority policy since 2010 have been continuing here, reflecting the events in ethnic education, culture and the media, as well as the progress in the local government sphere, an unwavering and upward trend that we can all welcome. Hungarian ethnicity policy has also achieved exemplary results at European level, thanks to the government initiative and the activity of ethnic communities. Hungary is also actively acting internationally to ensure that the rights of nationalities are enforced as widely as possible, including the development of bilateral interstate relations or motherland relations, contacts with international organisations, compliance with obligations arising from international documents, and, as we have heard, support for cross-border programmes. Dear Parliament, Summa summarum, it can be said that the government is giving all the help to the nationalities in our country to live and preserve their identities, and I believe that good partnership with them is also of paramount importance from a nation strategy point of view. As an individual Member of Parliament, I often have the opportunity and opportunity to attend various celebrations and events, and it is really nice to celebrate together with the nationalities and to rejoice in the successes that have been achieved together. I hope that the Hungarians living in the areas that have been torn for 100 years will also receive support and respect in the near future, such as that which Hungarians will receive at home. Finally, allow me, fellow Members, to quote the idea of our late Minister of Culture, József Baron Eötvös:. Whether we start from the general interests of the country or from the specific interests of individual nationalities, we can only get a conviction, and this is that the interests of the historical and political nation can only be assured if the needs of every nationality in the language are satisfied; and that, however, the needs of nationalities in different languages can only be satisfied if the unity and state existence of the country are assured. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For example, I believe that this idea is an eloquent idea that, in the pursuit of fundamental national interests, the current government must act in close cooperation with indigenous nationalities. In view of what has been said, of course, the Fidesz and the KDNP Group support the adoption of the report, and I call on the opposition representatives to support it with respect and affection. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-09-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Vice President of this House. All time frames for both of them are 15 minutes. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, [[He continued his comment in German.]] Herr Präsident, Hohes Haus, es ist für mich eine besondere Ehre und Freude, hier als neuer Vizepräsident des Ungarischen Parlaments in meiner deutschen Muttersprache als Ödenburger-Ponzichter-Bürger diesen Bericht über die Lage der Nationalitäten in Ungarn kurz zu commentieren. Da, es ist für mich doch eine große historische Epoche, die mit diesem Bericht jetzt auch zu Ende geht. Nämlich seit 30 Jahren, seit der politischen Wende hatten wir das Ziel, dass die großen nationalen Minderheiten in Ungarn, genauso wie die großen ungarischen Teile außerhalb der Landesgrenzen, die Rechte bekommen, die in einem Europa des 21. Jahrhunderts natürlich sein sollten. In diesem Bericht wurde all das Positive zusammengefasst, was wir sowohl im internationalen Bereich als auch im nationalen Bereich über die Lage der Nationalitäten in Ungarn erecht haben, ich möchte concreteen, in diesen 30 Jahren. Nämlich schon die Regierung Antall hat sich angeschickt, dass wir 1993 ein Gesetz über die Lage der nationalen und ethnischen Minderheiten verabschieden konnten, und nach 30 Jahren konnten wir wirklich viel Positives ereichen, das auch im internationalen Bereich sehr, sehr auffallend ist. Ich möchte concrete, zum Beispiel, dass die deutsche Minderheit seitens der ungarischen Regierung entschädigt wurde, und dass die offizielle ungarische Seite sich entschuldigt hat für die Vertreibung von der Hälfte der Deutschen in Ungarn. Auf der anderen Seite möchte ich allerdings auch klarstellen, dass die Volkspartei Jobbik mit großem Bedauern festgestelt hat, dass in den letzten Jahren autoritäre Ein-Parteien-System-Züge in der ungarischen Öffentlichkeit Einzug gefunden haben, und wir wissen aus der Geschichte, dass diese autoritären Züge, wo zezal von der Staatspartei FIDESZ unterstützte Medien antideutsche Hetze betrieben haben, und dieselben Redakteure bis heute, dieselben Redakteure bis heute aus Staatsgeldern unterstützze Programme betreben dürfen, und dasssss die absolut vergi gestrem fürtische fürtem ungen fürtem fürtische fürtem ungen fürtem fürtem fürtische fürtem fürtem fürtische fürtem fürtische und und und für für für fürtem für für für für für für für für für für für für für für füre füre für füre füre füre füre Dementsprechend möchte ichdarauf aufmerksam machen, dass sowohl die Vertreter der einzelnen Nationalitäten in diesem hohen Haus als auch die gewählten Vertreter der 13 nationalen Minderheiten in Ungarn eine große Verantwortung tragen, wie die ungarische Öffentlichkeit und die Breitere internationale Öffentlichkeit ihre Tätigkeit beurteilt. Mann soll natürlich mit der jeweilig Regierungspartei in einem engen Kontakt stehen, aber es ist falsch,wegen Finanzierungsfragen alle anderen Prinzipien über Bord zu werfen. Es ist deswegen also ein wichtiger Punkt, dass wir hier und heute diesen Bericht unterstützen werden, aber wie das einerseits dann in meiner ungarischen Rede ich concretee, unsere Kritikpunkte auch einbringen, weil wir meinen, dass im 21. Jahrhundert die Nationalitäten in Ungarn und die gesamte Nation, die ich als Vizepräsident vertreten werde, mehr verdient. (Dear President, Dear House, As the new Vice-President of the Hungarian Parliament, as a citizen of Sopron poncichter, it is a special honor and pleasure for me to comment briefly on the report on the situation of nationalities in Hungary in my German mother tongue. After all, a great historical era has now come to an end for me with this report. Thirty years ago, since the political change, our aim has been to give the great national minorities in Hungary and the large Hungarian territories across borders the rights that should be natural in the 21st century Europe. The report summarized all the positives that we have managed to achieve at international and national level in terms of the situation of nationalities in Hungary, in these 30 years. Even the Antall government had a role to play in adopting a law on the situation of national and ethnic minorities in 1993, and after 30 years, we have actually achieved many positives, which are also very striking at international level. I would like to stress that, for example, the Hungarian government has compensated the German minority and the official Hungarian party has apologized for the expulsion of half of the Germans in Hungary. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the Jobbik People's Party regretted the fact that, in recent years, the characteristics of the authoritarian one-party system have appeared in the Hungarian public, and we know from history that these authoritarian features, especially the fact that the media supported by the FIDES State Party has conducted anti-German incitement, and that the same editors can, to this day, lead to programmes supported by state money, and that the perfectly poisoned political and social climate in our country certainly does not serve these important goals that we have achieved together. That is why I would like to draw attention to the great responsibility of the representatives of individual nationalities in this House, as well as the elected representatives of the thirteen national minorities in Hungary, for how the Hungarian public and the wider international public judge their activities. Of course, it is necessary to have a close relationship with the governing party at all times, but not to throw away all other principles because of financing issues. That is why it is important that we support this report here and today, but, as I will stress in my speech in Hungarian, we believe that the ethnicities in Hungary and the entire nation that I will represent as Vice-President deserve more in the 21st century.[footnoteRef:1] ) [ 1: The National Translation and Translation Authentication Office Zrt. by authentic Hungarian translation. ] [[He continues his comment in Hungarian.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EPP Jobbik, I welcome the prepared report, which, as we have heard, describes in very detail the situation of nationalities in Hungary. Since the speakers before me have made very detailed information on the positive results actually achieved, such as the resolution of parliamentary representation and the increasing financial support of nationalities in Hungary, let me clearly draw attention to those points that we believe should have been included in this report as opposition representatives. [[11.00]] The first issue that I miss in this report, as a university lecturer and linguist, is language loss. This report does not include loss of language, even though we all know that most ethnic communities are characterised by this process. Moreover, most nationalities, especially in the school system, are struggling with this process, and I think that if we wanted to hold a genuine mirror before this House and the Hungarian society, this process should have been presented and analysed in addition to the positives. In addition, I would like to draw attention to a very positive point, namely what we have said from the beginning, that the Fidesz government has recognised that the situation of the Hungarian Roma and the 12 other nationalities should be treated separately. We are in favour of this, and the proposal already shows that this is split up, because the Hungarian Roma, as my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs will say, are facing quite different challenges than the 12 classic national minorities. I also think that it is worth analysing in detail the results of the 2016 microcensus nationality if we are to present the real situation. After all, you can see that the uniformly positive picture outlined by the speakers before me is absolutely not supported by this ethnic microcensus, as we can talk about falling figures for all nationalities except for Polish, Romanian and Serbian nationalities. In addition, it should be added that, behind the increase in Romanian and Serbian ethnicity numbers, KSH has, in our opinion, an incorrect data analysis, since these are usually Hungarian families across borders, who, in turn, speak Romanian or Serbian in the family and friends circle, of course. At the same time, this leads to false data from the nationalities of the home autochton. By the way, we drew the House's attention to this already in 2011, and nothing has happened since then. The next thing I want to mention as a criticism is the phenomenon of ethnobiznis. We cannot hear anything about this in the report either, but there is still the phenomenon that some people, for financial reasons, receive Hungarian taxpayers' money through programs disguised as ethnic activities, horribile dictu as last weekend in Mohács: they campaign for Fidesz in public money. This is not why Hungarian tax-paying citizens give national money. There is no mention in this report of any kind of monitoring system, although this is very important in our view as to the effectiveness of these grants. This is a very important step which, in our view, is of particular importance for all comprehensive support schemes, such as the issue of domestic nationalities. I particularly welcome you as a representative of the National Local Government of the Germans of Hungary for 22 years, who also appeared as a maintainer of the national minority self-governments in the Hungarian school system. At the same time, I think what the Ukrainian spokeswoman, Madam Supera, has said is that the scholarship programmes on the shortage of teachers have been launched. I think that these are positive steps here, but there is a very big problem. So it's a very big problem, especially in kindergartens, it's my comma horse, by the way. After all, it is natural to get the mother tongue back in kindergarten, and I think that the training of kindergarten educators who are perfectly bilingual and the training of teachers who can then teach professional subjects in the language of their nationalities should be a major step forward, despite the fact that right now, after taking over institutions, the cultural autonomy of nationalities is also strengthened. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to a serious problem that I have already mentioned at a similar point on the agenda, and has found great support for most ethnic communities, namely migration and emigration. For in the majority of small settlements where the majority of nationalities live, because of the very bad economic situation, these people of nationality leave our country and are forced to move, for example, to cities where there are more job opportunities, and then there, in a big city or larger city, they give up or are placed under assimilation pressure. In the case of Hungarian Germans, we can not only talk about internal migration, but we can also talk about moving directly to Austria and Germany, such as the youth of German ethnicity from Baranya, Tolna. What's gonna happen to us in a few decades? That is why I would like to point out that we hope that the National Unity Government, which was set up in 2022, will give priority to the economic support of domestic nationalities. In summary, Jobbik of the People's Party will support this report, despite the shortcomings listed, in the hope that these shortcomings can be remedied in a next report, because as a national ethnic party based on Christian-social background, we support both national minorities and the welfare and freedom of national communities across borders. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-09-22-42	Congressman! Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The Vice-President has demonstrated his excellent language skills, but the custom of this House is that after greeting words, of course, the speech is given in a native language. Surprised everyone. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We announced it yesterday!]] in the next period, if the Vice-President wishes to continue this, then it will be possible without further delay, only then will we give all our fellow Members here a direct, literal translation of the speech. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We announced yesterday, Mr. President.]] I'm sorry. I'm almost done. Of course, now that our colleagues have failed to achieve this, I ask the leadership to attach the German language speech given by the Vice-President to the minutes, of course, as an annex to the protocol. Mr. Vice President, you didn't come to us here on the bench, but of course I'm talking about this in the voice of great respect; it's only good that we know. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, in the remaining timeframe. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-43	Mr President, Given the shortness of time, I'd rather say my comments on another occasion. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-09-22-45	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We Christian Democrats believe that nationalities living in the territory of Hungary enrich the culture of society as a whole with their own culture. Nationalities in Hungary have had a significant impact on the history and culture of Hungary since the founding of the state. It is no coincidence that the King of St. Stephen, in his warnings to Prince St. Imre, speaks of the fact that the nationalities living in the territory of Hungary embellish and exaggerate the royal court, and they intimidate the egotism of those from outside, because it is a monolingual and unconventional country that is weak and corrupt. Therefore, my son, I command you, with good will, to satisfy them and honor them, that they may be more glad to be with you than to dwell in any other place, than the end of the quote of the Spirits. [[11.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I also think it is important to emphasise the fact that the nationalities in Hungary are reliable partners and we are reliable partners of nationalities. The situation of nationalities in our country is exemplary because we believe it is important that they are able to maintain their identity. Since the individual is primarily determined by his mother tongue and thus his native language culture, we consider it important to care for their linguistic and intellectual heritage. We Christian Democrats believe that plural identity does not take away from anyone, and on the contrary, it enriches the individual, enriches, strengthens the community, the region and the whole country. That is why I thank all nationalities living in the territory of Hungary for their sincere and fraternal cooperation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is not in the room, so she will have the opportunity to take the floor later in the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As he praised this report without exception and the situation of nationalities in Hungary, I will join in. I could have said the same sentences, basically. It is good that we have such a topic before us, and it is good that we can talk about such a question here. There are, therefore, life situations in this country in which government and opposition can even agree, or at least there are social groups whose prosperity in this country can be reported with positive indicators. It's definitely a good thing. It's a good thing. By the way, we have had the pleasure of reading a very detailed account, not only because it takes two years, but also because it does affect many, many areas. Part of my identity is not as much as Brenner Koloman's German identity is that I'm a lake, by the way, perhaps more people from my name have invented it. It's just a small part of my identity, but it's there, so I was interested in reading the report about how this part appears. However, there are three issues that I would like to address, and this is not really about national authorities or the situation of nationalities, but rather about the governance of individual issues. And I'm not going to tell you a big secret that I'm going to be more critical of that. One: in the report, I mentioned this at the Commission's hearing when we discussed this in the Committee on Justice, that when the State Audit Office checked the management of national authorities, it found a great deal of problems, problems, problems and irregularities. I've written out some data. For example, the audits found that 92 percent of the audited institutions did not comply with the closing accounts decisions and accounting accounts compared to the control system. Or, when it was a follow-up, because due to irregularities, a plan of action was requested from the institution concerned and it was subsequently checked for its implementation, around one third of irregularities were found again. So there are irregularities in the use of state, taxpayer forints. Does the government or the State Audit Office do anything to make them less or less? What are the consequences of this? I am sorely lacking in this account or any other sign. I remember that in the committee, the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office said that these were not findings of the SAO for 2017-18, but for 2016-17. I understand that, but if there are irregularities, then I'd like to hear what the government is doing to make them less, or I'm sorry, not. The other issue is also related to another report, the report of the National Election Office and the Commission, which was discussed not so long ago, where part of the report on last year's minority municipal elections was about, and indeed, maladministration, problems and irregularities were also identified in this report. In particular, it has been reported that people who were also involved in the national minority elections, registered in the register of candidates, or showed that they were not, in fact, part of the national minority, not members of that national minority, but, for such a reason, for supposedly material and other political reasons, have subscribed and voted, and have indeed influenced the elections of the national minority. This is very important. Here we open up the question that we have talked about several times before, perhaps again this year with the amendment of the nationality law, whether it is enough that the law or the law merely links the exercise of certain national rights to the individual's declaration, is merely a result, and not a result of the community's recognition. The consequence of this is that although the possibility of inclusion in the national electoral register is intended to be granted to those belonging to nationality, the law does not provide in practice for the way in which this can be verified. This may be a more sensitive and difficult question to grasp, but how should we talk about it, since it was included in the National Election Office report, that's for sure. That's why I'm mentioning it. Finally, the third thing: Mr Secretary of State mentioned that more and more educational institutions and perhaps other institutions are being transferred to the treatment of minority self-governments. DK doesn't have a problem with that, it's a problem, of course, it's a right thing to do. In fact, if you look at it as a state task, the minority self-government is helping in a certain way, obviously cultivating its own culture, but doing it is, if you will, a type of educational tasks that should be done anyway. DK has one problem with this: in general, the municipalities acquire the place where they operate through state ownership and these educational institutions. I have said this several times this year in a different case, not in a minority municipality, but also in a different case, that it is possible to talk about how a state task can be performed differently and how the state helps. I think you can talk about it here and how you need this kind of help, that's for sure. But I think it's possible to do that without changing hands with the state's wealth, not getting ownership of that school or kindergarten. So that's my problem. However, these three comments do not, of course, concern the report itself. As I said at the beginning, this is a very nice, very aggressive account, and the situation is quite normal according to the report and the advocates, so DK supports this. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2020-09-22-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Women and Lords of Speech! Dear Congressman Ritter, I think it is joyful, because it is a rare moment when we can negotiate a matter with great agreement, and there is a good chance that we can even vote by consensus. I will therefore start by saying that the LMP will, of course, support this detailed report, which has really been prepared with a great deal of work. And I can also say that what has turned out in the many debates that there are obviously problems, there are still shortcomings, but there have been really serious and positive progress on this issue, on the issue of nationality policy. This is to be welcomed, and this work must continue in the future, no matter what. [[11.20]] So I do not want to deal with the report itself in more detail either, because it is very detailed in itself, it is a significant, long, bulky material, and the expos, I think, have presented it in quite detail, supported it, and we have heard important additions from Vice-President Brenner Koloman here, also from the Member. I myself come from Pécs, Baranya, where I live, which, obviously, has always been a very diverse country from a linguistic point of view, but I myself experience that traditions live alive, but migration and loss of language are indeed an actable and very fast process. So obviously these issues need to be discussed more. So I confirm that the LMP will accept the report itself, along with the fact that we have heard a lot of legitimate points here from even Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk. I would definitely confirm one thing, and I would like to raise what Congressman Brenner Koloman has already mentioned, and which we have brought to Parliament several times. In January of this year, an unprecedented event took place, when some public figures, journalists, funded by the Petőfi Literature Agency, did not know how to name these gentlemen in a modest manner. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Indeed, it is true that those who told us close to the government have lived with outrageous and totally unacceptable outbursts, namely, jokes about the Germans' elimination, and they could do so, I repeat, in a public YouTube community-sharing portal presented on Ship's Log. At the time, we filed a complaint with the Member, or with Mrs Krisztina Hohn, and we have not yet been able to successfully take legal action, so to speak. We keep trying, looking for legal opportunities, so that this outrageous statement has legal consequences. At the same time, it is important to talk about the fact that, unfortunately, these particular journalists, tellers, can still be in government media, share the senses, make jokes, so there has been no political consequence of their involvement. I think that it must be said, and I think that there is agreement between pro-government and opposition representatives in this regard, that this is not acceptable, that there is no manifestation in public life, and that there must be a trace of this, and that in public media such actors should not be given the opportunity to speak. Similarly, I would like to point out one more thing briefly: Mr Demeter mentioned, if I remember correctly, that the Hungarians in the parts of the country torn by the Trianon peace dictatorship would be as much appreciated as the national minorities in the mother country; I fully agree that it would be very good if we could begin to approximate in this direction. At the same time, we also have work to do in this matter, we have opportunity and work together, we have a job to do, as we have talked about many times. Previously on Minority SafePack has been mentioned by the spokeswoman as an initiative of the Szekler National Council for national regions, for the development of national regions, for the survival of their national culture, and it is very important, obviously for us, we can say that this is an important national issue primarily because of Szeklerland, but this is a pan-European issue, a matter that we Hungarians have an obligation to support, but it is very important that we bring news to Europe, and that we can create the conditions for international validity of this European citizens' initiative together. In the context of restrictions on the coronal virus epidemic, the European Commission pushed the deadline for this initiative until 7 November, which is available on iradala.hu, and we have seen that until May the number of signatures has formally gone up to one million. However, it is not possible to draw attention often enough to the fact that signatures will be officially verified at national level, so it is justified to collect signatures even in the Carpathian Basin, in the mother country. I would also ask everyone, political organisations and representatives, to use the international relations of their own political organisations, so that this important European citizens' initiative can also meet international conditions. In recent weeks, I myself have asked many, many Hungarian cities to support this initiative through their European Union cities and their partner cities, i.e. on irdala.hu. Through the public, I would ask all Hungarian citizens to bring news of this initiative, and for the approximately one minute it will take to sign it, who has not yet done so. Thank you once again for the work of everyone who has explained their activities in this very detailed report, and again I can only say that the LMP fraction will support this adoption with its vote. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-22-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who has arrived in the meantime. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, According to the 2011 National Rights Act, the government reviews the situation of nationalities living in Hungary every two years and reports it to the National Assembly. By presenting the present report of the Government, this obligation will be fulfilled in January 2017-2018. for the period from December 2006. The first half of the report describes the situation of nationalities in Hungary in general. The report provides a detailed overview, supported by figures and facts, from the presentation of demographic and linguistic data and trends, to the presentation and budgetary support of the legislation for the enforcement of nationality law and to the presentation of the situation of ethnic education and culture. On the basis of these criteria, the second half of the report describes the situation of individual nationalities in detail. Some points in the report are worth noting: Between 2001 and 2016, the number of nationalities increased by around 40%. The growth was mainly in the period 2001-2011, with ten nationalities growing between 2011 and 2016. In the two most populous ethnic groups, Roma and Germans, there was a significant increase in numbers between 2001 and 2011, and there was a significant increase in Ukrainian, Polish and Serbian nationality between 2011 and 2016. Three groups, the Slovenians, the Slovaks and the Greeks, have experienced a decline in numbers since 2001. Based on the results, the geographical location of Roma and Germans is the most balanced, and smaller ethnic groups are generally characterised by higher spatial concentration. The Roma population in two counties was or is present in a prominent proportion. In 2016, 19 percent of the Roma lived in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, 14 percent in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, 60,000 and 45 thousand respectively. At the same time, only 1-1 percent of the Roma lived in the three northwestern counties of Vas, Komárom-Esztergom and Győr-Moson-Sopron. The second largest ethnicity, one third of the Germans, lived in Central Hungary, 19.5 percent in Budapest, and 13 percent in Pest County, with a high proportion in Baranya County, 15 percent. Another surprising lesson from census data is that despite a surprising rise in the number of people who claim to be nationalities, the number of ethnic languages who claim to be their mother tongue has decreased. The 2018 elections were important events during the reporting period. The report shows that the Germans can now be represented in the National Assembly by a representative, Dr. Imre Ritter, not only a spokesman, but also a national representative. Several TÁMOP programmes ran during the reporting period to reduce early school leaving and improve equal opportunities. The reason I told you demographic data here and the number of Roma populations in which counties is high is that we can also see that this is directly proportional to their disadvantage, that there is a very high proportion of the Roma population, where we can say that we are talking about a complexly disadvantaged area, and here the presence of this minority is very high. National higher education has a number of difficulties, and cannot start without a number of trainings. The situation of ethnic media is also presented in very detailed detail in the report. Some interesting points in the chapter on the situation of Gypsyism: the report confirms the cumulative disadvantage of Roma society with a multitude of sad numbers. What is shocking is that the decline in the number of Roma in employment and the increase in the number of long-term unemployed have already begun before the crisis caused by the epidemic are shown in Figure 3. In the area of ethnic education, the proposal welcomes the fact that the pay gap for ethnic teachers has increased from 10% to 15 percent and then to 30 percent. The report gives a detailed picture of the situation of nationalities, which tackles the problems of substance and reflects on them. [[11.30]] Although the creation of a parliamentary representation of nationalities is a welcome step forward, the exclusion of those in the electoral register of minorities from voting on party lists has proved to be unfortunate. It is a failure of the electoral rules that only one national representative has entered the National Assembly, so the majority of nationalities are represented only by advocates. The Hungarian Socialist Party abstained on the final vote in the report for 2011-2013 and voted in favour of the 2013-2015 and 2017 reports. In association with my fellow Members, we can really say that we have read a thorough, detailed report. I wouldn't go for it, because maybe we'd be here until morning if we opened up all the problems that belong to nationalities. Then perhaps it should be taken not only until morning, but also several days; much more should be done by Members in Parliament on this issue, and I think that we should talk more about these problems. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-09-22-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no such signal.]] Since no one wanted to take advantage of this, further speeches by its representatives will follow. I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, who wishes to give his speech here in full. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking Lords! Speaking Women! My fellow Member, Mr Vejkey, referred to the Intelligences, quite rightly, and indeed this summary, report and the national minority policy in Hungary are the traditions of this. The tradition of having a country, let's say, is that the country where the non-Neméli Dénes Tomaj, of which he is a native, could be the second most prominent man, after the king, at the head of the country's armies, and also gave his life in the battle of Muhi, defending this country, the common country. And indeed, very few countries within Europe where, let's say, iconic heroes like Zrinyik can be paraded with the greatest respect both Croatians and Hungarians as one. This is where the miracle may have occurred, indeed, that the most vital, loyal people of our glorious war of freedom have become precisely Rutheny, the Gens fidelissima. And who is a little bit more familiar, let's say, in the history of our country, knows that after the Turkish devastation, the insurgent Swabians have done a tremendous heroinic work to reclaim the barren areas. That's what happened in my narrower Patriot. The Suloki Swabians, who received the territory of the worst lands in the county, did a miracle there in Sulk, and flourished that former wilderness. So, these traditions here, we really need to build on them, and it would be very good to do so on the century's mourning anniversary of Trianon, if the neighbouring states would also realize the truth that national minorities, nationalities, are not supposed to be a source of danger, but could enrich and enrich their country and their culture. From this report, this could be read here, despite the fact that criticism could indeed be formulated, and obviously there is no state of existence that is not yet one or two degrees better, it could not be improved. That is what my fellow Member Brenner referred to in his speech as a keynote speaker. What is really missing from this report, and not from this, but from the public address, here in Parliament too, is that we should very much express and pay attention to the fact that the issue of domestic gypsyism, although there is obviously a reason to negotiate within the framework of such a report, but we should focus much more attention and focus on the fact that it is a special ethnicity, ethnicity, minority, and who knows what would be the exact expression here, whose problems are indeed waiting for a solution, and these problems are not just their problems. After all, if we look at the population explosion that occurred, say, since the first large Gypsy census, according to the 1893 survey, in the territory of Csonka-Hungary, so there were sixty or a few thousand Gypsies living in the territory of the present country, we know, let's say, from the survey of János Cségyes and the University of Debrecen, this has since increased by fifteen times. So now we are talking about a population of approximately one million people here in Hungary, and the 21st century. Indeed, one of the most important issues of our centuries will be the issue of Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence and the constructive solution to this. That is why we should talk about it, considering that it is a very sensitive subject, but we should speak frankly about these problems, because, as Ferenc Glatz said, Ferenc Glatz may not even have an extreme bias on our fellow Member Soltés in this regard, because there is not a Gypsy issue in Hungary because there is prejudice, but because there is a Roma issue because there are unresolved problems. And we should find solutions to these unsolved problems, if we want it to be good, if we really accept the truth that it is a national strategy issue that needs to be resolved. Fellow Members! This report contains a lot of forward-looking things that we cannot say 'no' in this respect either as a responsible opposition party, and we will not reject it. If we make criticism, the criticism may be that the measures that are listed there will not be sufficient to remedy these problems at general level. Because you are talking about, say, the start of certain children's homes, which is a perfectly sound initiative, and we can support this with all our heart, obviously, if it is not about papering or taking pictures, like a number of projects that have failed, just so that money is managed, and the money is taken up by reference to these unfortunate people. By the way, there is still the man in your benches, the pro-government representatives, who has become an iconic figure of one of these scandals in Hungary. I am talking about the program of the Bridge to the world of work, where more than one billion forints were lost, even though this one billion forints would have had its place in crisis regions that are growing in Hungary. And if we are economically exposed and safe to say that in many cases we can say that we are at the bottom of the global value chains of multinational companies in an exiled country, then indeed, these crisis regions are multiplying, and in these egressing, very difficult regions, which are suffering from multiple disadvantages, there would be a great need for all such public resources, for it to be used with honor, and indeed for the interests of those to whom it was addressed, or for the purpose of saving the common future. When we have criticisms, we always make those kind of criticisms. And I recommend to the attention of my fellow Members, especially in the pro-government benches, that we do not say that these programmes are en block and are inherently in vain, and that they should be swept away, erased, because that would be obvious nonsense and the assassination of the country. We say that these programmes should be given greater attention and that honest accounting should indeed be required, because it really is a cardinal area. Well, that is why these questions should be dealt with much more frequently, and, if possible, in a much more honest manner, and not with all sorts of accusations and labels cut to each other's heads here in this House, not with the aim of ethnic stigmatizing. God forbid everyone else, because this forced stigma, if we do not take into account that domestic gypsyism is not a homogeneous mass, can lead to a forced sense of identity being built on those in whom it is not an inherent spiritual need. [[11.40]] On the other hand, it would be unfair to consider those who do not belong to a homogeneous mass, since the origins of the Hungarian Roma, their mother tongue and, let us say, their attitude to the majority nation are very diverse. We can talk about three main groups, and all three, by the way, deserve a separate account here in the walls of the House. I could also talk about the Romungrós, which are about 70 percent, so the Hungarian Gypsies, who are inherently, largely likely, according to some historianic and ethnographic studies, are not Gypsy origins, but the marginalized Hungarian groups and social groups have become Gypsies. Let me draw your attention to, say, a 1937 Népszava article by Gyula Antallfy: Hungarians wrote on the Gypsy row about the fate of the southern Gypsy colony in Karcag, about how many Hungarian agricultural proletarians settled there. We are barely beyond the Great Depression, and indeed these Hungarians, who are leaving the social care system, have become gypsies there, as the author says that the number of gypsies living there has doubled in the last decade. Obviously, not because of the high population population, but because many were assimilated there as well. So we are originally talking about Hungarian people. I could talk about this. We could actually talk about the authentic gypsies, or themselves, who look to them as horsemen, Olah, a couple of bells, and we could talk about the beas gypsies, which represent about 10% of the shares, and especially the beas gypsies that live in South Transdanubia. When I was teaching, you know, I would always draw the attention of students of mostly benech origins to not succumb to temptation. In modern times, it became a kind of fashion to monkey, to follow this ghetto culture through YouTube and all kinds of community dividers. I drew your attention to the fact that I had a colleague when I worked at the Dráva Museum, who processed the history of the Gypsies from the Barcs area, South-Transdanubian Beas, and had a great, great conscience over the archives of Baranya, Somogy, Zala, and found that he had been with Gypsy Beás from the late 1700s in the 19th century. During the mid-century period, lawsuits could not be met in connection with a criminal offence, but only as a deserter. This means that great-great-great-grandparents have lived a peaceful, productive life, worked on woodwork, and if there are such traditions, because I think it is a tradition that should be incorporated into the national consciousness and drawn attention to it, then these are traditions to be followed. So, what I'm trying to say here is that the domestic gypsy, which many of you, I say once again, would view very badly as a homogeneous mass, is not, and would deserve much more attention through the problems. Fellow Members! We don't know everything about the gypsy that lives with us. There is a very vague picture that the censuses may be able to convey to us. By the way, it indicates the difference between official census data and, let's say, the János Pénzés, the reality assessed by the University of Debrecen. There we can find at least a triple multiplier. If we look at how the individual Gypsy groups feel about the attitude to Hungarianism, what identity they build for themselves, I would refer to the survey of István Kemény from a decade ago, which should make everyone think about. Among the beás gypsies arriving in Hungary at the latest in South Transdanubia, about 60 percent were those who themselves, obviously not denying that they were gypsy-born Beás people, but they considered them to be part of the Hungarian nation. On the other hand, in North-East Hungary, the Romungrók, who, once again, are not gypsies, but Hungarians who have fallen down, according to Hardék's survey, declared themselves to belong to the Hungarian nation only 6 percent. Why am I bringing this here? My fellow Member Soltes is quite certain that he has heard of the ecclesiastical predictions and the bishop's findings that draw attention to the danger that, indeed, the Hungarian state has resigned from certain areas here. I do not say this here from the benches of Jobbik, but Catholic bishops draw attention to the fact that, indeed, these areas after a while, if the Hungarian state almost withdraws from there, it can no longer be considered an integral part of the country, and they spoke about the danger of a second Trianon, to which János Ladányi and his fellow sociologists had previously drawn attention. Well, when it comes to integration and gypsy affairs, we should always look at these things from such a basic point of view, and that is why I ask my honourable fellow Members there in the pro-government benches that, if possible, we should be able to discuss this issue as often as possible, as calmly and honestly as possible, because we believe that the pro-president Jobbik really believes that there is a need for solutions that serve the common future in this country. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-09-22-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, representative of nationality. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-55	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, as chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to take advantage of my rights as a representative, to respond to some of the things that have been said. First of all, I would like to thank you for drawing up the report. One sentence could be mentioned: the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities has come to the conclusion that the report is such a great work that it might be more appropriate to draw it up every four years; and we said that we thought that we should do it every year, because it is an extremely important document. So we have two years left to compromise, but not from February to February, but from 1 January to 31 December, together with the budget year, which, I think, makes it easier to compile the report and, above all, the numerical data. I would also like to thank you for the fact that, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the material has been compiled from a lot of places and with a lot of organisations. All nationalities, advocates and national presidents have had the opportunity to look at the material, which is essentially almost prepared, in relation to their own nationality, and thus to rule out, in essence, that there should be any number or other conceptual or conceptual problems. I think it is also due to this that, on the part of all the speakers, there has been no formal or technical problems in the very long, more than 200-page material drawn up. Of course, the point is the content. Thank you all for the positive signals, feedback and comments, both the recognition and the positive tone with which you evaluated the entire report. Thank you, too, for some of the suggestions. One or two of these, not taking away Mr. Secretary's bread, if I may, I'd like to respond. I would not respond to Koloman Brenner's comment in German, because not everyone probably understood; I think we can discuss this outside separately. However, I would like to mention from the section in Hungarian that he raised the loss of language, which is obviously one of the greatest threats and problems not only for Hungarian nationalities, but also for all nationalities. I think that the challenges for nationalities and the existing, sometimes very serious, problems must also be presented ourselves, and we, ourselves, must make the various proposals towards a solution. That is why we did the work on the national education programme in 2016, which is precisely the point of having a sufficient number of properly trained ethnic educators. [[11.50]] After all, the loss of language is now and in the future primarily ensured through the national crèches, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, the ethnic public education system, since it is a community, small-town life closed for 150-200-250 years, which has ensured a very closed union of nationalities for several centuries before it, the survival of the mother tongue of nationality, for many reasons no longer exists, and the world is not going in such a direction that it is capable of preventing loss of language in the future. I would like to point out that if anyone looks back at either my comments or the contributions of my fellow speakers, then in addition to always recognising and thanking for the measures, the opportunities and subsidies that we have received in the last six years and in these two years we have examined, but we always, without exception, raise the fact that, of course, we have not solved everything, there are a lot of tasks ahead of us that burn, and we are at 36 hours. The idea of these and the initiative to resolve them is our responsibility and we will do so. I hold myself to what our late President Ottó Heinek once said, or repeatedly, that the nationality leader who is satisfied with the situation of his nationality is already assimilated, in fact, is no longer a nationality. I can confirm this by saying that only a week and a half ago the President of the South Tyrol Parliament was here, whom I received here in Parliament, and then we were together for a full day. We regard South Tyrol as a achievement of national autonomy that everyone who belongs to nationality wants to achieve, or at least one form thereof. When you are with the President of the South Tyrol Parliament for a day and a half, and you can hear how many difficulties and daily struggles they have always had to maintain national autonomy and maintain it properly, I think that this sentence of Otto Heinek was absolutely correct. At the same time, with regard to the loss of language, it should be pointed out that these two years have been the year when, with the introduction of the minority pedagogue bonus, we launched a long-term programme of strategic importance, and in connection with the student scholarship, I can inform the Honourable Parliament that yesterday we made it public at a briefing with the Minister of State, Miklós Soltész, that, at zero hours, the school teacher's scholarship was launched tonight, which means that in this academic year, we can involve all teachers of national education, teachers, teachers and teachers of national minority education in the scholarship system. And we also said that at the same time we still have very serious tasks in the teaching of ethnic education, and that 80-85 percent of the training that still exists in Hungarian has to be translated to 80-85 percent in ethnic language, and 15-20 percent in Hungarian. This ethnicity programme, I trust, will be key to the future of all ethnic minorities in Hungary and will be able to stop and even reverse the loss of language in the past. As regards the SAO's audits, which have been raised by DK, I would also like to inform everyone that SAO's audit has been included in a system, both in the local minority self-governments and in the national self-governments, with regard to the institutions taken over that have not been received before. Among other things, on the 30th, the Chair of the Supervisory Sub-Committee invited representatives of the SAO and discussed the experience of the audits. With all our efforts, we are trying to achieve the most positive SAO audits and audit results, but I would like to emphasise here that 85-90 percent of the central budget support provided to public education institutions by the national authorities is absolutely objectively available for the provision, hire and contribution of teachers, 80% of the overhead expenditure is water, electricity, gas and the rest, where any abuse or careless farming is not even possible, regardless of the fact that all statutory regulations, registers and the rest are available and have been developed in an appropriate capacity. So I think that the risk here is much less than in many other areas examined. I would also like to stress that, in addition to the SAO, there are government offices, the Hungarian Treasury and a series of other controls in all public education institutions, which also ensure from a different perspective that there can be no major problem with public education institutions. With regard to the transfer of maintenance rights and ownership, I would like to say to László Sebian-Petrovszki that it is safe to look at those public education institutions in any nationalities where, in addition to the maintenance right, the national minority self-government took over the ownership of the institutions 6-8-10 or 12 years ago. You can see the state of these institutions, the progress they have made. We hope that we will be able to achieve the same by ensuring ownership by local ethnic authorities. I would add that there is a significant difference here, since the national minority authorities have offices and they have properly trained people, while the local minority authorities have to ensure this centrally. This is why we are setting up the national educational methodological centre, which will help local ethnic authorities nationwide. [[Dr. István Tiba will be replaced in the notary seat by Attila Gelencsér.]] I do not wish to go into the issues raised in relation to the national electoral register required for elections to Parliament and local minority self-governments. We deal with this a lot too. Nor do we say that there is a thousand percent of the best solution, but it is an extremely complex issue, and this is the case that before the parliamentary election, national voters have to choose between the party list and the minority electoral register, but this is also the natural barrier to the abuse of non-ethnic voters' subscription to the electoral register. This natural brake does not exist in the local minority self-government election, as anyone there who thinks can vote for the local mayor or representatives, as well as for national minorities. Of course, any proposal that can be put through constitutionally and can be done will be taken into consideration and we will try to go in this direction. [[12.00]] Once again, I would like to thank everyone for their positive attitude, and also for the fact that, over the course of the two years, all the motions for nationality have been accepted by Parliament without voting against. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I thank the spokespersons and national presidents for always being able to establish a single ethnic position, despite the various interests and the different mentalities needed to achieve and promote these results. Thank you so much for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-56	Thank you very much for Imre Ritter's speech. I give the floor to Mr Felix Wolf. You have the floor, Felix Wolf.
u2020-09-22-57	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Ander Balázs Jobbik's two-style speech, since today's speech was only about gypsies, and I was almost surprised that he spoke a little fondly about gypsyism. There was a time when they hated, ran the Hungarian Guard, caused hatred, and I believe that is the case now. Of course, the election is coming, and obviously you would like a Gypsy vote, but I would like to say that you will not receive it, because the actions you have committed at some point, and to this day, I am sure that the Gypsies in Hungary will not forget them. Let's go back a little bit by 2010. Before 2010, you founded a Hungarian Guard, marched with the Hungarian Guard, aroused fear, and not only in Gypsy people, but also in all Hungarian people with good feelings. After 2010, when the current government started to govern it, it was the first thing it had to do, and the Prime Minister said that it was work for aid. Today, it seems that the vast majority of Gypsies in Hungary live from work, thanks to the good Lord, they undertake, because now their future is predictable. That is why I would like to thank the current government for taking the rights of nationalities seriously, because today we are discussing an important issue, a report that, as we can see, even opposition parties clearly provide their support. With all due respect, I would ask Jobbik that, if you talk about gypsyism, you should do so in such a way that you remember what they have done to the Gypsy in Hungary, what they have done to the Hungarian Guard and to the masseuse and to incite hatred. It would be better to inform each other within their own party or to prepare for the fact that Gypsyism in Hungary is part of the Hungarian nation. Don't hurt them! They are also working people, they also like to work, they also like to pay taxes, because thanks to the current governance, I mention once again a lot of people, and the vast majority, if you can say the percentage, are up to 90 percent working. It is also thanks to the current government that it helps young students with a wide variety of scholarships to reach their dreams, to get into high school, higher education, college, or even university. There are a lot of gypsy people in my circle who have graduated from college or university, and they like to live decently, raise children, run a household. Thank you very much, but I think without your support, because as you have proved, you cannot be expected. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-58	Thank you very much, Felix Wolf. There are two two-minute requests for a word, two right-wing congressmen. According to the house rules, I can only give it to one for two minutes, but if the other asks for a normal word, I can give it to both of them; that's the order. Then I'll ask who's the first person to ask for the floor. [[Tibor Nunkovics reporting.]] Tibor Nunkovics, two minutes!
u2020-09-22-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to the words of Felix the Wolf. I grew up in a housing estate and worked in a factory for ten years, and I have a lot of gypsy friends. I really hope that you'll meet one of them one day and tell you what it's like when a better man really cares about the gypsies. You know, what we are not trying to achieve, Mr. Speaker, is that the Gypsies should be used, as has been the case in the last ten years or even the last thirty years. Because gypsies are only thought of when the election comes. I was down in Takta during the weekend, Taktasada, exactly, and I was in the settlements of Hernád Coast. They didn't say what you just said. You know what? It's quite deceiving to have a János Pócs sitting in Parliament, putting a gypsy man in a boiler and making jokes about smoking it. Then why didn't you speak up? Thank you.
u2020-09-22-60	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2020-09-22-61	Mr. Wolf, that was a shame. It was a very, very shame for you to let go of this speech in this way, because I think that you are completely counterproductive, and you can also say that you would simply go to the Prime Minister's office for a secretary of state, but in a minority voice, it is quite steep to say so en bloc. Yeah, I was at Takta myself, and I'm gonna calm him down, or I'm gonna upset him, I think, we're gonna have gypsy voters. But I didn't say what I just said to get them to vote for us, but simply because I think it's the truth. Yes, there in Taktakezen, at the end of Petőfi Street, the 72-year-old and 14-year-old honest-working retired gypsy uncle who happily shows his cultivated garden, who raised five children, each in honor, giving each of them a profession, will vote for us. I refuse to tell you your name, but you are searching so much in the pro-government benches, obviously monitoring all the activities of opposition representatives, and you can also identify people on the basis of Facebook photos, if any. So, if you do that, you can also see that at all our events, at least in South Somogy, this is divinity, so far and before the popular party, we have our Gypsy friends, by the way, among whom we have an organizational leader. But no one's strigulating his origins, we know that, and then he told us that. He lives an honest life and sees the future of his responsible children in study and work. That's all. Then comes the friendly right, the helping hand. As incredible as it may be for you, I can only ask you, my dear Congressman Farkas, to not be full of stereotypical thoughts either. You can guard here, you can bring up events ten years ago, just so I can shed some light on the vignette of this. In World War II, Europe's largest nations killed each other, millions killed each other, say, the French and the Germans, blood spilled on the battlefields. Nazi Germany invaded France, and then the Germans were invaded. However, six years, not ten years, but six years after the end of the Second World War, we have a basic fund for European integration. Because from the French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman and German side, then Konrad Adenauer were wise enough to put aside the grievances that they may have committed against each other, a better and better future, even if it is a frightening term for some, but for a better future. [[12.10]] Yeah, there was guard marching, and, yeah, there was a folklore turn in Jobbik. Where did your prime minister sit? Wasn't he one of the leaders of the Liberty People's Party? Forgive me for asking. So it's really unfair to drag this around like this, to say it. If they're good friends, and they're honest about it, then it's appropriate to accept it in better places. This friendly is better for those of us who really want to build this country together, the honest one on our side. I would very much ask you, Mr Speaker, not to look for any voting machines here. You're supposed to be looking all over the place. You know, do as we do, go out in the field, sometimes it's nice to get out from behind the desk, from the office, and if you're honest there talking to people, then you can face the reality of buying votes and votes from vulnerable people here, in this country and how you buy votes and votes from vulnerable people. What we want to do is to ensure that these people are never forced to sell their votes, say, for a bag of food, for sacks of potatoes. But again, I didn't want to bring this here. There is a report before us, which was praised by this faction and by all the other groups of opposition, and we have explained in connection with the spirit in it that this country had this past and this is its future. So we support: domestic nationalities must not be grinded and not seen as enemies, even if there are huge differences between nationalities in Hungary. I'm really, really sorry it didn't come out of what I had to say. I think the majority understood. There are people who obviously want to squeeze it out, twist it out of context, as they do, as they do, I don't know, as some kind of scandal stone, but I don't think it's in our mutual interest. Mr Speaker, I myself live in a region where there is a very high proportion of the Roma population, the beas gypsies. That's the kind of youth I taught as a high school teacher. I dared to go there, and I dared to go there, even before the People's Party, to any of the clogging villages. Because those young people never doubted that I wanted to be able to get along with them. You can do this obviously, you have every right to do so, but I'm only asking you to try to get in touch with him before you make such speeches. Because saying that to me is insulting, insulting, and unfair, who cares? No one. That's what we do. Let's take it. However, this is more than that. There is a one-million-dollar ethnic group in Hungary with special problems. It's quite simply about, I wanted to explain here that it would be good if we could deal with this as often as possible and honestly as possible. That's all, that's all. It's not a vote purchase. Besides, there is a huge difference in power that, let's say, is in our hands and in our hands to say that we can influence this willingness to vote. We've been told everything since the People's Party. Let's just say it would be nice to decide where we are a liberal communist or when we're a fascist Nazi, because there's a little bit of a role problem on your part. So, I would very much ask you to keep this, not to say debate, but to discuss this report within the framework of the framework that 13 nationalities in our country deserve. I have tried to serve this in my comment, and I ask you very much that the gypsy, as I said at the beginning of my speech, or wished, should not be seen as a homogeneous mass, who, with an enthusiastic, happy smile on their faces, are all marching on their faces to vote for Fidesz under orange flags. It's not like that, and it's not like that. And not because we fear less votes then, but simply because we leave these people the right to free choice when we talk about democracy. And believe me, a lot of gypsy people, especially those who work with honor, early rise and hard working gypsy little people, have a lot of problems with what this government does in many cases. I praised the initiatives in this report. If we are to make criticism, let me say this once again: we are not saying this because these initiatives, the Roma schools, children's homes, and other integration programmes could be classified, should be shredded, disposed of, and funds should be withdrawn from them. No. What we are asking for, and I believe that this is an entirely legitimate request from the opposition and its representatives at all, that everything be transparent, that everything be accountable. That's all. Then, if there is still criticism, we have so many criticisms that we have to look at, say, how much of the child in need in Hungary, especially in the group of people you would represent here, and then we have to add that the government has done everything to make sure that there are not as many children's homes in this country as there are, but much more than there is, because there is a demand for it. Thus, hundreds of thousands of children grow up under conditions where they acquire socialization standards that are unlucky, from which there will not be much of an eruption, the forward gates, they close in front of them. This is why the state has a huge responsibility, and from a conservative position, but I think that in the pro-government benches, too, the state has a responsibility, and not only does the majority society have a responsibility to not create a homogeneous mass of people who do not make a homogeneous mass, and ethnic stigma does not strike everyone, and at all, but the individual has a responsibility to get one from one to the other. We also say this, and we also say that when we say, say, about the Mafia in Enying, or even about the Mafia in Érd, that those bastards certainly do not help the cause of integration, because that is how social psychology works, indeed, the unacceptable acts they have done, they do, they also fall back on the honest gypsy people to whom we offer the best of friends with all honesty and with all our heart. But we always tell them not to be punished for these people's insufferable crimes, because it's no one's fault of their origin, no one's fault for the color of their skin, and taking on identity at all, it's not a crime. In this case, we are also used to say that, yes, we would be very happy if the idea of the double gold band of Tamás Péli could be accepted as widely as possible among Gypsies. Not on the basis of an ethno-nationalist view of the majority society, but, yes, he too should feel part of the Hungarians, and there are percentages of who and how which group feels about it. We want that, and this is creepy from an otherwise racist base, and from a terrifying etno-nationalist base, when we say: we want to see as much of the gypsy as possible as part of the Hungarians and become an integral part of this nation. We're totally partners in this. What excuses you might find in this case and how you're trying to squeeze this whole thing out is another thing, but I'd be very, very sad about it, because it's not about the battles and words between us, it's about the future of an almost ten million-dollar country and the one million people you want to represent. That's all I ask, Mr. Congressman, and Mr. Speaker. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-22-62	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. I'll give the floor to Mr Felix Wolf for two minutes.
u2020-09-22-63	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I don't want to fight either, but believe me, I'm constantly out among the people in the settlement. I was out when you were marching, and I was out when you were screaming Gypsy crime. If there were gypsies in your party at the time, then shame on you, because they are also marked by the fact that they were gypsy criminals, according to you. [[12.20]] And I think that there will be no Gypsy crime, and there will be no Gypsy crime, and the difference between you and the current government is that you have created tension, you have created strife, you have created fear. This government, on the other hand, reviewed the tasks and said that Gypsyism must be caught up. You have also mentioned the Roma student college, which has resulted in a large number of graduates. But, as I mentioned in the scholarship programmes, a lot of people also finish primary school, high school, and thank God they're going to go to college. But there are a number of opportunities such as the school network, the "Secure Start" children's house, which also facilitates the integration and catching up of the Roma, so do not discuss this. You were there when we were crying during socialist government, when the Gypsy was shot to death. The killer did not spare the life of the five - year - old child. You were marching, you caused fear, and the Gypsy in Hungary will not forget this, I am telling you now. It can be any petting conversation or petting speech right now, believe me. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-64	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund Fidesz for two minutes.
u2020-09-22-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond very briefly to the words of Congressman Ander: it was probably the conscience of Jobbik and your bad conscience, which is why he talked for 13-14 minutes about things that I do not know, I have not been able to follow precisely, because we have heard about Schuman, the European Union and many things. [[Ander Balázs: I'm sorry you didn't understand.]] But I think that no matter how much you talk, no matter how much you talk, you cannot clear your conscience, because on the one hand, you have committed serious crimes against the Gypsies, on the other hand, your coalition partners, their friends, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his associates. Gypsy people remember well the time when unemployment was 12 percent when Gypsy people didn't have jobs when there was no gypsy policy when they shot gypsy people with secret service backgrounds. These times, thank God, have ceased, unemployment is now around 3-4 percent, and Gypsy people can also find work, today there is no Gypsy killing in Hungary. It all happened. So I really think it will be difficult to explain to our fellow gypsies why they should vote for Jobbik and why they should vote for Gyurcsány. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Come down to Taktaköz with me.]] Why vote for those who have already intimidated them and those who have destroyed this country, have already destroyed the country once, and have also destroyed the Gypsy people? I would like to congratulate Mr Félix Farkas on speaking, and I think that the gypsy community was ahead of us, much ahead of us ten years ago, because it has such leaders. [[Tibor Nunkovics: And Flórian Farkas? He's sitting right next to you!]] Because there are some gypsy people who stand in front of the gypsy people, lead this community, take advantage of the European Union and national programmes that serve the rise of the gypsies, and that's why we've made progress over the last ten years, and that's why the gypsy people talk like that, and I know it's really bad for you to listen to this, and I'm not surprised they're talking about nothing for 14 minutes. [[Ander Balázs: Because you didn't get it.]] Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-66	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2020-09-22-67	My fellow Member, I am very sorry that you did not understand what I was talking about at the time. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Maybe he doesn't belong here.]] Schuman and the Adenauer example came here because I wanted to prove that two great nations, after killing each other, were able to work together six years after World War II, to offer each other a better friendship. You're talking about marching, and that's right, you're talking about Gypsy murders, which Jobbik has nothing to do with, and we're asking ourselves to do it here. So shame, shame! It is also a shame, a shame that there was a debate here, a perfectly normal parliamentary report, and so it was hijacked. [[Miklós Soltész: Because you are shouting!]] Not because, my honourable fellow Member, Mr Secretary of State, but because of the outrageous accusations made here against us, which simply does not cover reality. What does Jobbik have to do with the Gypsy murders? Yeah, we always condemn that kind of thing. He was convicted then, too. Innocent human blood can't flow, nor can it be old, beaten to death by aging, walking jackals at the end of the village, nor by little children who are shot to death by racist bastards. So I think that's quite clear. There must be order in this country. You've been in power for ten years, governed by two-thirds. You brought it up here, my fellow Member, and you, too, wandering back and forth about, say, the school business. Let me ask you what happened to, say, the Pearl Foundation. Who took the money from them? Right? We need it for 136 million-dollar luxury carpets. Thank you. So much for you. It's a shame. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-22-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask someone else to apply for another speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, the joint general debate is closed, and I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2020-09-22-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Superak Brigitta, spokesperson, who also relayed the joint decision to the representative of the minority, the joint decision that we were involved in together. And thank you very much for your statement, which I have obviously followed my introductory speech, and I have also said that we have a good relationship with the Ukrainian representation in Hungary, the Ukrainian community in Hungary and with nationality, and we will give you all the possible support. We also give to the people living in Ukraine, and neither the Hungarian Government nor the representative woman, so the leaders of the Hungarian-Ukrainian community, can't help that unfortunately the relationship between the two countries is not the best. However, we are doing everything we can for them, and thank you very much for your stand for the Hungarians who live there. This requires extra courage. Thank you. However, I thank you very much for the attitude that all the advocates have given to the report and then to the decision, that is to say, the debate itself. Working together, we are now summing up two years of working together for ten years, and these two years, however short-term, are already achieving results here. Thank you very much, Zoltán Demeter and, of course, the representatives of Imre Vejkey of KDNP for your support, help and, of course, for the acceptance and support of the two factions. Thank you very much for your positive attitude. I thought that despite, and it was strange, that in one of the committees on which this report was discussed, the opposition remained, the opposition on the left, although I do not understand why they did so now, and on the other hand, there was a report on how important and good accounts are, overall, supported, and even in the final vote, the entire left, except for Jobbik, disappeared from here. The fact that I, the answers, are not being listened to is not of particular interest to me, but the fact that, let's say, the German national representative is not being heard, I think that is disrespectful to the subject and to the nationalities, because we are closing a two-year period. And therefore, it is quite difficult to respond to the DK representative, who has said positives overall, saying that this material is good, it is okay, it supports it, and then he went to three areas that I have to answer, because it would stay airborne if I didn't answer. On the one hand, the SAO's comment, which concerns certain national governments, mostly local national authorities, on the closing report: I would just like to say that one of them is that it did not relate to the current period, but to an earlier one. On the other hand, many of these municipalities need to learn a lot of things so that they can carry out those laws, those tasks, those financial regulations well, but they do it with honor, and when the error is brought to their attention by any public body, in a very large majority of them they also correct that error. That is all I would like to say to the DK Member who is not here. [[12.30]] As I would like to point out to DK, the Gyurcsány Party that their claim regarding the 2019 election, i.e. that there might have been abuse or that there might have been abuse in relation to the electoral register of nationality, has indeed been received by nationalities, and that is why we have corrected it this spring in the law, spring 2010 or early summer to change this. Interestingly, we have found the best solution, the best solution now, together with the nationalities. Interestingly, the DKs, who are not here, did not vote for this bill. They also had one very incomprehensible suggestion for me in the debate, and even now the representative of the Gyurcsány Party has said all this, that they are attacking the fact that nationalities are getting ownership of schools, kindergartens, whatever other institutions. They should know for themselves, because they have been on the government for some time, but it is better not to recall the period of that period now, for example, how much easier it is to start a European Union proposal if you represent property or if you want to invest in someone else's territory or building. They are very well aware that in any way property is more responsible, as a result of which they are much more careful, they are improving that building, so we decided to own kindergartens, schools, which were taken over by national authorities, of course, on the condition that if they switched profiles, they would complete education there, then the property would return to its original owner, so nothing and no one would be harmed on this subject. The Gyurcsány Party should not talk about property anyway, because then they will really give back the confiscated property in which Ferenc Gyurcsány and his family continue to spend their lives. This is not the subject of this report, but if it has already been mentioned, it has to be responded to. Thank you very much for speaking to Lóránt Keresztes, even though he brought me up in the context of German expulsion, I have said something so truly unacceptable, and many of us have said a programme from the government, which will be unacceptable now, in the past and in the future. I'd just like to ask you how the miracle is that you support a Jobbik candidate in the parliamentary elections in Szerencs right now, at the beginning of October, who is specifically anti-Gypsy, specifically against Jewishism, and is specifically anti-worker. How's that? [[Ander Balázs: Why anti-Gypsy?]] I'd like to ask you this once, if you're here, how does this come about, when a TV show or some little thing that was really unworthy, we condemned it, it brings it here, but on the other hand, there's a double standard, and they don't care about it. They won't bring that up. So this sentence was unworthy, though it must be said that they must sweep around their own house, and that is not what this debate was about. Besides, what the Jobbik did is again unworthy. I just want to tell you that the day of Hungarian drama was yesterday, not today. So the performance that was rehearsed here in so-called keynote speakership, or the yelling that Ander Balázs did today, as he did yesterday, and here in Parliament many times, we got used to it, it's amazing. This is a shower, ladies and gentlemen. Even if you say popularism thirty-three times and thirty-three thousand times, it won't happen. It must not only be said, it must also be behaved, it must be behaved not only as such, it must be done. You may be trying to practice this order, and now you are very much in favour of the left, but, overall, what you are doing is pathetic, and it is a disgrace, a disgrace to the people who live here among us as Hungarians, of whom, by the way, as a result of the government of the past, 900 thousand have been removed from the ranks of poverty, but I would just like to say to you that this is something to be said, and on the other hand, it is a disgrace, because obviously the situation in which these people live is unworthy, but they would like to break out. Instead, you keep pushing me against them. Well, now that you've given me a nice and touching thought process, everyone appreciates that, but I think the voters know what you want. The point of this debate is, after all, that we have a report, or we have a ten-year period behind us, and within that, a two-year period that was desperately needed. There was a great need in all of this for nationalities to be able to preserve their mother tongue, to really fight the loss of language together, and, as Congressman Ritter said, how much we have done over the last few years, and that is the result, thank God, of yesterday's candidates for national education, yes, that is the point, and that is the important thing. And everything else they say here is good for those who, by the way, get out of this room and cause hatred, if any, against a particular nationality, that's not important. The important thing is that thirteen Hungarian nationalities live here among us, and ten years of work, and now the 2017-18 report shows that the work we have started will and will have results. There will be results and results here in Hungary, and there will be results and results in the neighbourhood policy as well. In fact, in other nations' policies, I would add. It was interesting in Jobbik's speech, what the Member said in German, that he did not say the same thing in Hungarian, and that Hungary was not nicely set up in German for the Germans. There is a survey of the respect and appreciation of the citizens of the two nations, Germans and Hungarians. How the Germans respect Hungary and the Hungarian people, and how the Hungarians respect the Germans. And part of that is obviously the work culture that we've established together. Part of it is the industry and much more that German companies brought to Hungary. It is part of this huge German nationality, who survived the persecution of the left, communism, which was wrongful and disenfranchised during the banishment; and part of it is that we are indeed pursuing a nationality policy, as a result of which the advocates and the Member are sitting here in this wonderful Parliament, and together we can prepare for all the work that we still have to do. I would also like to thank you for this, and to all the Members who have done a great deal of this: the speakers, the Members, and even the opposition speakers who have spoken positively about this report, thank you very much for listening to me. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-22-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Mr. Imre Vejkey for an answer. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-71	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I was surprised at the outcome of the debate, because this debate had already been held before the Judicial Committee. In that debate, left-wing Members took a different position, even though it was not a long time ago, in March 2020, they abstained from voting, not voting against, but voting against a weak gender. I am now pleased with this half-turn that you have taken, but only a question of what has happened since March, what may have led them to the interim local elections on 10 October to change their previous position, which you can find in the minutes of the Judicial Committee with detailed reasons. Now it looks like they're unanimously saying they're gonna vote yes. Indeed, our fellow Member Brenner Koloman said something else in German and said something else in Hungarian. I do not wish to discuss the difference between the two, but I do find it strange that this could have happened in front of Parliament. [[12.40]] On the other hand, with regard to German ethnic authorities, I would like to stress that I am extremely familiar with the Budapest XII. He is president of the German minority municipality of the district, Kövesdiné Martin Nóra, and I can say that it is evident that not only on the basis of information from the President, but also on the basis of my experience, they are increasingly able to live their German life in Svábhegy every year in the past ten years, and not only in their language, but also in their culture. There is no more proof than that the feast of St. Laszlo's parish on Shvabhegy, which will be 160 years old this weekend, is also linked to the crop festival, which is a wonderfully beautiful Christian and German holiday; they will be joined together and celebrated together. I would also like to address the debate that took place between Félix Farkas and Balázs Ander. In this debate, we can clearly give the truth to Mr Felix Farkas, a Roma advocate, and I can personally tell the truth. They use force to say, "Don't be afraid." So don't be afraid. Why are you afraid of us? Well, he'll be more afraid of them if they yell at them not to be afraid of them, even because, as he said, he spoke from experience. He spoke from experience on behalf of the Roma people and spoke from experience on behalf of the well-spoken people who supported them, in whom marching caused fear, who lost their lives. Therefore, I can say that the Roma community can still count on us, Fidesz-KDNP, in the future. Finally, I would like to say that I would like to ask you to support this report as well as the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Latvia on the prohibition of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the field of income and property taxes, Riga, on amending the Convention signed on 14 May 2004 until closure. The government referral is T/12876. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-09-22-73	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Tax Convention concluded with the Latvian Public Administration in 2004 contained a provision on the most favourable treatment of royalty taxation, according to which as soon as the Republic of Latvia agrees on more favourable rules with any OECD Member State, it also automatically applies to the Hungarian-Lt. The T/12876. According to a change in the list provided for in the proposed legislation, Latvia concluded a more favourable tax agreement on royalties with Japan than that contained in the Hungarian-Lt Tax Convention, so that the rules on royalty were automatically amended in the Hungarian-Lt Tax Convention on the basis of that convention. According to the change, the royalty can only be taxed in the State of residence of the beneficial owner or the concept of royalty has become narrower. The taxation of royalties thus drew closer to internationally accepted standards, better adapted to the domestic tax system and better served the interests of investors. In order to become part of internal law, the exchange of lists as an international contract on the agenda requires recognition of the mandatory scope and its publication in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I would ask that the bill between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Latvia on the publication of the change of the register between the Republic of Hungary on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation on the modification of the convention signed in the field of income and property taxes be supported and adopted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-09-22-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The point of the amendment to the 2004 Double Taxation Convention between Hungary and Latvia is that since 1 January 2018, the avoidance of double taxation has covered royalties. It is precisely that if the royalty is generated in one State, but its beneficial owner belongs to the other State, then it is only in that latter State that the tax is to be paid. Of course, cooperation between Hungary and Latvia is not limited to economic issues, but also covers defence and political areas. Hungary has already participated for the second time in mid-2019 to protect the airspace of the Baltic countries, including Latvia, and as a leading nation in the last quarter of 2022, we will contribute for the third time to the performance of Baltic airspace police tasks. We support Latvia's candidacy in the UN Security Council for the period 2026-27, because we believe it is right and important for the medium-sized countries of the Central European region to be included in the panel. We also take a similar position on many issues in the debates on the future of the European Union. We are both committed supporters of enlargement, which we consider to be a strategic issue. We both consider it important that the importance of cohesion resources is not reduced in the EU budget, so we consider the summer agreement of the prime ministers to be a success, which the European Parliament is now trying to drill. We both reject majority decision-making on foreign policy issues and the use of rule of law issues as a political instrument. Last but not least, we have a similar position on migration and we also reject the mandatory allocation of irregular migrants according to quotas and the UN migration package. Thank you for listening. We support the legislation.
u2020-09-22-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-09-22-77	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor, thank you for the opportunity. The House will now consult on various international conventions, where some of my leading speakers, pro-government fellow Members will obviously say, with a supposedly curbed interest, not in the half-hour of production reports, but in what priorities we can highlight in relation to the region or country in question, what the Hungarian position is like. This is, by the way, very right; I have no problem with that, and then we either implement legislation or declare or ratify an international convention in terms of various efforts to avoid double taxation; this is not a problem in itself. However, my pro-government lead speaker helped me a lot by extending the possible framework for this debate, from airspace police to migration, a great deal has been raised in relation to the package on Latvia and, by the way, in order to avoid double taxation. By the way, I don't reject opening dimensions of this style and level. At the same time, I would like to point out that Hungary could take over the positive migration processes for Latvia in its entirety. I agree perfectly that this country does not need immigration or immigration of any kind, but I also believe that the hundreds of thousands of migrant workers who have been relocated here should be subject to zero tolerance in Hungary for some reason. If the economic structure of the Baltic countries is examined, the masses of migrant workers deployed in these regions and in such quantities will not be found. That is why I propose to you that, if such agreement is reached with the countries concerned or with this country, you should also agree on this chapter of migration policy. I agree: zero tolerance, no need to sell settlement bonds to rich immigrants, and no need to install organised foreign workers. [[12.50]] We agree with the objectives, but I would remind my fellow Members how much the Hungarian budget is paying this year, how much the Hungarian taxpayers are paying. You have introduced a very heavily paid construction into the national economy. Unfortunately, based on the numbers, they can't disprove it if we're wrong. I would like you to consult with the Latvian colleagues in one more area, because if you look at the different population indicators and say, the fertility rate within Europe, then you will see that Hungary is an undisputed replacement, so that after moving from a very negative level to the middle field, it does not reach the European average in this indicator, unfortunately, but at the same time it does not reach Latvia's indicator very, very far. So there's a huge difference. I am not saying that in itself the nature of the family support system can be made responsible, because populationization is a thousand-factor problem, and we have a shared responsibility to discuss all its factors at your level. And I have to say that something is certainly done very well in the country concerned, if they can produce so much better than the Hungarian indicator. By the way, allow me to make so many personal remarks when, say, András Bencsik, in the Democratic editorial, lies into the world that he believes that Hungary is one of the countries that is growing in terms of population, while we continue to lose a medium city of people every year in terms of the number of our fellow countrymen. And what we can see is that two or three years ago there was a very hard demographic decline compared to basically bad processes, and we are now, fortunately, coming back from the decline to zero levels. And now Minister Novak and many experts claim this as a victory as if our fall had actually slowed down. Our fall has not slowed down, our last chance for the next two or three years is for the Ratkó children and then Ratkó-grandsons to be able to add anything else to the restoration of the coral tree, and we must give it every opportunity to do so. Therefore, I would like to call upon the Government of Hungary to see that when we negotiate such a treaty and do not stay close to the subject, but look at a much wider dimension, look at these very useful spheres, and learn from these countries what can be useful, and which, in addition to preserving our national identity, may even be introduced in Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-09-22-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Article 12 of the Convention between Hungary and the Republic of Latvia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the field of income and property taxes, signed on 14 May 2004, contains a clause on the so-called most favourable treatment for royalty taxation. On the basis of the clause, if Latvia enters into an agreement with any OECD Member State with a more favourable content in terms of the definition of royalties or the level of withholding tax, the more favourable provision will also be automatically applicable in the Hungarian-Oct Tax Conventions. Latvia concluded a more favourable tax agreement with Japan as from 1 January 2018 than the one contained in the Hungarian-Lt Tax Convention, and the Convention was amended from that date on the basis of that Protocol clause. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade forwarded in March 2020 a list of Latvian partners containing information on the activation of the most favourable treatment clause resulting in an automatic amendment of the royalty article of the Convention as from 1 January 2018. In its reply, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Latvia informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade that the conditions for the application of the provision on the most favourable treatment of the Protocol to the Convention between the Republic of Latvia and Hungary on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the field of income and property taxes were met. Consequently, as from 1 January 2018, the royalty, which is generated in one Contracting State and whose beneficial owner is resident in the other Contracting State, can only be taxed in that other Contracting State. It also states that the term "supplier" means any payment of any kind which is received as a consideration for the exploitation or exploitation of copyrights, patents, trademarks, designs or other designs, designs or secret forms or procedures, and for information on industrial, commercial or scientific experience in literary, artistic or scientific works. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the content of the change of the register amending the Convention, it is therefore possible to publish a law in accordance with the constitutional rules for the conclusion of international treaties and the rules of law. As a result of the amendment favourable to Hungary, the Hungarian-Lt Tax Convention does not apply to royalty payments, the royalty is taxable only in the State of residence of the beneficial owner, and the concept of royalty has become narrower. The text of the Convention thus drew closer to internationally agreed standards. KDNP supports the bill. I need your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-09-22-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-09-22-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the presentation. Thank you.
u2020-09-22-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. For two minutes, Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz, would like to speak.
u2020-09-22-83	Very briefly. Mr President, Thank you very much. I am pleased that I have inspired my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z., so that he cuts it from the hips, without preparation and preparation, because it is made of tax issues, I suppose, of all kinds of demographic numbers. I have looked at the demographic figures in Latvia, unfortunately there is a sad trend: in 30 years, the population has fallen from 2.6 million to 1.9 million. So I don't know in what sense this is a positive demographic example. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-84	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2020-09-22-85	Mr President, Dear House, Very briefly. I do not wish to be a lecturer to my fellow Member. You know, we Jobbiques, when we put our heads on public life, relatively earlier, even in the period of the MIÉP youth class, in the second half of the 1990s, we realized something that you didn't even realize in 2010, that one of the biggest problems in this country is population loss and the very negative demographic trend, which makes the pension system unsustainable, which makes the collapse of healthcare practically imminent. Take a look, my fellow Member, at the number of unfilled GP practices, this has all gone so far under your regency. But obviously, the outcome of the processes should not be sought in 2010, much earlier, about my age, at the end of the 1970s, at the beginning of the 1980s, the eclipse that you should recognise in relation to the deterioration of these supply systems. You may want to be very clever, open your little notebook, and find something to take out the opposition representative, but that doesn't give you a positive expression in this area. The fact is that this country, and once again, you opened this debate, not I, has a full fertility rate at the moment and otherwise, a very fast internet inspection can be discovered in a way that is significantly better than the Hungarian data. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: How much?]] It's significantly better. My dear fellow Member, You have not even reached the EU average in terms of total fertility rates. You can interject, I won't understand what you're saying behind the mask. Press the button if you're a little braver. The thing is, I'm not against you, I'm trying to be good for my country, I'm just seeing that when anyone makes a positive, positive suggestion, you're going to fly, you're going to be arrogant, you're going to be this big. [[He's showing it with his arms wide open.]] I'll put the vest on. And for what, my fellow Member? The numbers don't confirm you. I respect your cross-border engagement to the fullest extent, with my hat off to him. So you see, I find in you what we may have in common, because that's the only basis we can build this country on. But that's not how you behave when you get positive, plus-enhancing suggestions, and you're avoiding everything from the flegman and the gut. It's pretty amazing. [[13.00]] When we talk about yes, it is very, very important to improve the population situation, and the figures do not justify you, because unfortunately we are falling in terms of indicators, then again they do not accept, let's say, the idea of a government-based housing concept. Think of it as a 150-160 thousand forints rent in the capital for your family would probably not be a problem if it wasn't for mine. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Let's not get personal.]] But in the typical Hungarian life situation, these are very brutal problems that affect obstinacy. Or that you assisted in evicting more than ten thousand people in ten years. I couldn't sleep quietly if my government had conducted this process. These people all have family policy goals, childbearing plans that they cannot achieve in this brutal situation. That is why I have suggested that we set up a common national minimum in these matters, whether from a Christian-social, humanitarian approach. Today, for example, I have called for the immediate order of the eviction moratorium. And yes, if there is such a country, if you bring other dimensions into this debate, and we find an indicator for which they are even better now than Hungary, then don't be ashamed to open up to the world, at least to look at what makes this country better, how to improve Hungary's situation! You're a well-prepared congressman, and you should be proud of your record. I would ask you not to take over the incredibly low-fidestic style that has killed every single opposition issue. At least look into what we talked about. Not only do I specialize in this area, but I also have a kind of hobby. Believe me, I don't come here unprepared, but I expect the same from you. Thank you.
u2020-09-22-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Republic of Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the publication of the Protocol on the amendment of the Convention on Income Tax in Islamabad, signed on 24 February 1992, pending its closure. Government referral T/12877. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-09-22-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, With the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Prime Minister 145/2018. The Prime Minister's decision authorising the Republic of Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to avoid double taxation and to amend the convention in the field of income taxes by amending the bilateral tax convention. The final text of the Protocol amending the Convention is set out in Annex 1558/2019 on its signature and its adoption as a bill. The Protocol was signed in Islamabad on 14 July 2020. The Protocol amends its article governing the exchange of tax information between the tax authorities of Hungary and Pakistan in accordance with international standards. The T/12877. The scope of the protocol contained in the proposed legislation covers the exchange of information in the field of income tax. By amending the Convention, it shall provide the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with the opportunity to exchange full information. It is important that the application of the amended rule in the case of tax information exchange excludes a reference to the lack of domestic interest and also makes it compulsory to provide information on bank secrecy and ownership interests. In terms of the content of the Protocol, it complies with international practice, the principles and rules adopted by the OECD, as well as other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far, and serves well the development of bilateral relations, the interests of investors and tax transparency. In order to make the international treaty on the agenda part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise the mandatory scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I ask that the draft law between the Republic of Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the publication of the Protocol amending the Convention on Double Taxation in the field of Income Tax is supported and adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-09-22-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Economic relations need to be developed continuously and its international standards have been partly developed and developed by the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of which Hungary has been a member since 1996. In international economic life, one of the aims of developing improvements and more important regulations is to improve the transparency and cleanliness of business, to make it easier to control legality, which is also mentioned in the current bill. In 2008, following our 1992 agreement with Pakistan, the OECD developed a model agreement on the basis of which a full exchange of information under the 1992 revision would be possible under the Protocol amendment. The exchange of information therefore regulates the processing of data of participants in bilateral business relationships. The exchange of information would, of course, be carried out under strict rules of information protection by the Amending Protocol, but at the same time it also excludes the possibility of loopholes from legal obligations, thus creating a clearer business situation in our international relations. From the point of view of Hungary, there is no need to explain the benefits of improving transparency in bilateral relations, which reflects the intentions of both countries, i.e. there is consensus on the benefits of introducing new legislation. I think it is unnecessary for me to include in particular the uncertainty that the world's trade war is about. In such an international environment, every bilateral relationship and its precise regulation, which broadens the spectrum of our relations, counts from the point of view of Hungarian interests. The more we develop our relations, for example in the southern or eastern direction, the more the Hungarian economy stands on its feet in a changing world. The protocol amending the Convention that has now been tabled serves Hungary's interests and is timely in shaping the international legal environment, and is generally in line with our foreign policy guidelines. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-09-22-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-09-22-91	Mr President, Dear House, Excuse me. I'm not the only one in this House who's been distracted by the mask-and-take. I'm sorry. Of course, Jobbik's faction supports the package before us and, of course, supports a clearer business relationship between business partners and countries. I also wish to express my hope that Fidesz-KDNP considers these principles to be binding on itself, bringing in clean business relations, say, in relation to the Hungarian public procurement market, the Hungarian megainvestments and developments will also follow this principle. In this way, let us say, the Budapest-Belgrád railway will eliminate the madness, the pyramid constructions, the cicoma investments, the amounts of which will be transferred, let us say, in order to make up for the loss of wages and to preserve our sovereignty, in full agreement with what has been said, that all world-wide external relations should be maintained, and I express my hope that Hungary's Government will not take on another foreign currency loan, as it has done recently. [[13.10]] I must also express my hope that the country will probably not be drowned in Chinese megaloans again, as planned in connection with the Budapest-Belgrád investment, and that some Russian megaloans have been added to the Hungarian sky since 2010. I hope that the principle of equal distance is not imagined by the government as being indebted to Hungary everywhere, but rather by building the Hungarian economy. If pure economic relations are the goal of your external relations, you will enjoy our support to the full. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-09-22-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member have given several details on the bill. I would like to highlight one article of the treaty, which is covered by the bill. Article 1 of the Protocol amends Article 27 of the Convention, which contains the detailed rules for the exchange of information. The bill provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with a full exchange of information by amending the Convention. By way of amendment of the Convention, Article 27 (2) states, however, that the information received must be treated as confidential by the Contracting State in the same way as the information obtained by the State under its internal legislation and should only be disclosed to persons and authorities dealing with the determination and collection of the taxes referred to in the Convention, their enforcement, the relevant litigation or the review of remedies relating to those taxes or the supervision of the former. I think it is important to stress that Article 27 (3) expresses that the provisions of the Convention cannot be interpreted as requiring a Contracting State to make a provision other than its legislation or administrative practice or to provide information which cannot be obtained under the legislation of the Contracting State or in the normal system of public administration. Furthermore, the Contracting State shall not be obliged to provide information revealing any professional, business, industrial, commercial or occupational secret or professional procedure or the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy. As the Secretary of State pointed out, the requirement for a full exchange of information precludes the possibility of a reference to a lack of domestic interest and also makes it compulsory to provide information on bank secrets and ownership interests. Ladies and gentlemen, In terms of the content of the Protocol, it complies with international practice, the OECD Model Convention principles and the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far. Please support the bill, KDNP supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-09-22-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, summarized the substance of the bill so fantasticly that I could not have said it better myself, so I can only say that the MSZP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-96	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'm asking the author if you'd like to answer now. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2020-09-22-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Z. I would like to respond to Dániel Carpathian with a sentence. In addition to the fact that, of course, he did not refer to the subject of the bill, nor to the previous agenda, but after criticising the government's borrowing system, I would like to tell you that in 2010 Hungarian government debt was over 80 percent compared to GDP, and at the beginning of this year, 66 percent in the pre-virus period. So this is not the government that needs to be criticised in terms of borrowings, but your current ally, your Allied governments, the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and other prime ministers, who took over the government debt at 52 percent of GDP after 2002 and took it over the 80 percent already mentioned. So let's discuss it together in the alliance first, that we have to do the same thing as Fidesz, lower the level of government debt. By the way, I am honoured that Jobbik is also in favour of the proposal, and every speaker of the parliamentary parties will ensure that the bill will be voted in Parliament, which I thank you very much for. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, Coming up next, General discussion of the Agreement on cooperation and customs union between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino and the draft law on the publication of the protocol to the Agreement on cooperation and customs union between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino until its conclusion. The government referral is T/12879. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a result of our legislative and legal harmonisation obligations arising from our membership of the European Union, and in the framework of our international cooperation, the law by which we announce and incorporate into the Hungarian legal order the Protocol to the Agreement between the Republic of San Marino and the European Economic Community on cooperation and customs union concluded in 1991 will be drawn up. Under the Protocol, the new Member States which joined in 2004, including Hungary, will become Contracting Parties to the Agreement between San Marino and the European Economic Community. Although San Marino is not a member of the European Union, in 1964 the European Economic Community decided, with a unilateral provision, to consider the country as an area of integration. In 1991 this was followed by a cooperation and customs union agreement under which a customs union with a wide range of products was established. It was also an important point in the document on financial relations signed with the Community in 2000, which allowed the euro to be used as its own currency as from 1 April 2001. In 2013, there was a referendum in San Marino on the Republic's wish to join the European Union. This was inconclusive at the time, but the most decisive endeavour of San Marino's foreign policy in recent years has been to continue negotiations with the European Union and, as a result, negotiations on the Association Agreement are progressing at the right pace. In 1991, when the customs union agreement was concluded with the mini-state, the foreign minister from that time visited San Marino, and after that visit, Minister Péter Szijjártó led the second Hungarian ministerial delegation to the city state last week, where he negotiated with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as with three other ministers, and opened a new chapter in our bilateral relations. In the framework of this, we will receive ten San Marino scholarships students a year from 2021 at universities in Hungary, and we will also start negotiating the investment protection agreement between the two countries without delay. I would ask this House to support and adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-09-22-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-09-22-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement on Cooperation and Customs Union between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino was concluded on 16 December 1991, as has been said and entered into force in international law on 1 April 2002. Hungary has become a party to the Agreement as a State which joins the European Union. San Marino, a mini-state surrounded by Italy, is rarely mentioned, but the oldest republic in the world has enriched European culture for 1700 years. No wonder he is sensitive to his national identity and proud of his religious, historical and cultural heritage. After 29 years, as Mr. State Secretary said, last week, Hungarian Foreign Minister visited San Marino for the first time. Our aim is for the European Union to conclude an association agreement with the country as soon as possible. The aim is to ensure close cooperation within which the current European challenges can be addressed by preserving the Union's own identity as an alliance of nation states. Our bilateral relationship is based on educational cooperation, where every year starting next year, Hungarian universities receive ten students from San Marino scholarships, but we also start negotiations, which has also been mentioned in the agreement on mutual protection of investments. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-09-22-102	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-09-22-103	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As far as the bill is concerned, so much is still important... I'm sorry, I missed the microphone. I would like to highlight so much in the context of the bill, as Mr Secretary of State has also presented in detail, and my fellow Member, that the agreement and the protocol entered into force from an international point of view, but in relation to Hungary on 1 August 2005, because Hungary became a party to the agreements concluded by the European Economic Community with its accession to the European Union. The agreement contained in the bill was decided to consolidate and, at the same time, expand the close links between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino. The purpose of the Agreement is to establish a customs union between the Contracting Parties and promote comprehensive cooperation between the Parties. The customs union has been established for products falling within Chapters 1 to 97 of the Common Customs Tariff, with the exception of products covered by the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community. Title I of the Agreement deals with the details of the customs union established between the Contracting Parties, which is an important provision for the Contracting Parties to refrain from imposing any new import or export duties or charges having equivalent effect between them. I also consider it important to point out that Article IV of the Agreement is an integral part of the Agreement. Title II of the Agreement provides, among the general and final provisions, that the rules applied by the Republic of San Marino in respect of the Community in the trade covered by the Agreement shall not discriminate against Member States, their nationals or their companies. On the other hand, the rules applied by the Community in respect of San Marino should also not discriminate against nationals of San Marino or their companies. Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to the Act on the Procedure of International Contracts, Hungary is bound by a decision establishing, amending or terminating international law and obligations for Hungary by a body established by an international treaty, or by amending the international treaty under the provisions of the international treaty, even if Hungary has not recognised the binding scope of the decision or amendment. The decision or amendment shall be published before its entry into force with regard to Hungary. I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-09-22-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP fraction supports the submission.
u2020-09-22-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, who has applied for a speech.
u2020-09-22-107	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I don't want to repeat what was said in the exposé. As Congressman Mesterházy, I would like to signal that Jobbik is present at the meeting and supports the presentation. Thank you.
u2020-09-22-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur, and he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] Secretary of State says yes. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Only one sentence: I would like to thank the factions for their support and ask the Parliament to support the bill when voting. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-09-22-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, The EuroMediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, and the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic, of the other part, on the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, and the Protocol on the signing and provisional application of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union until the closure. The government referral is T/12880. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-09-22-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to declare the Agreement signed in Brussels on 26 February 1996, the text of the two Protocols concluded between the European Community and the Kingdom of Morocco and which were necessary for the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and 2007. Morocco is a particularly important partner for the European Union, and it is important for both parties to deepen bilateral political, economic and cultural relations. To this end, the European Union concluded an Association Agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco establishing a free trade area between the European Union and Morocco on the basis of mutual tariff liberalisation for trade in industrial, agricultural and fishery products. [[13.30]] This agreement establishes cooperation in areas such as illegal migration, money laundering, drug trafficking, organised crime and the fight against corruption. The text of the Agreement was adopted by the Council and the Commission in the framework of a Council and Commission Decision. The adoption and application of the texts resulting from the negotiations were also decided in the years 2005 and 2007. These Decisions have established that the Agreement and its Protocols have become applicable to the countries which joined the 2004 enlargement process as of 1 May 2004. The purpose of this bill is to announce the Euro-Mediterranean agreement that has been in force since 2000 and has been applicable in Hungary since 1 May 2004. I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-09-22-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I feel compelled to address the bill in case the MSZP faction applauds me, but I'm not gonna do that. The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement was signed in Brussels on 26 February 1996 and entered into force on 1 May 2000. In recent years, it has become apparent that cooperation goes beyond the political and commercial area covered by the Agreement and it is therefore necessary to amend it. The EU is a remarkable partner due to the western attachment of the Kingdom of Morocco, its economic weight and the geopolitical role of the North African region and its relations. The further development of bilateral relations in a number of areas worthy of cooperation is a good opportunity to take joint action against global and regional challenges, as it demonstrates the political identity and value of the parties on a number of international issues. Morocco, as a gateway to Africa, is going through a great deal of development. The focus of its economic development is on green transformation. Green energy development and the creation of sustainable agriculture are state strategic priorities. As the region has potential for innovative solutions, products, companies and technologies in Hungary, there is a demand for Hungarian knowledge transfer. The agreement also establishes cooperation on illegal migration, money laundering, drug trafficking, the fight against organised crime and extends it to communication, audiovisual and cultural areas. The purpose of this publishing act is to publish the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, and the two Protocols to the Agreement as a result of the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and 2007. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2020-09-22-115	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Once again, we are talking about a proposal that was based on Hungary's membership of the EU, but is now being announced in the law. Let me add that my personal experience confirms that Hungary is an important country, an important partner for the Kingdom of Morocco. I personally experienced this by being an independent Member of the European Parliament, so I did not belong to a large lobbying group, but the Ambassador considered it important for a personal meeting to take place here in Budapest and to discuss all the issues concerning Morocco that would be on the agenda of the European Union at that time. That is what I wanted to add, and Jobbik naturally supports the adoption of this proposal.
u2020-09-22-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-09-22-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, It is a routine procedure and is therefore supported by the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-09-22-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the support of the factions, and I would like to thank my fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, for confirming with his personal experience that the relations between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco are good and prosperous, and this is also the aim of the bill, which I ask for to be adopted in the vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill on the termination of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Central and Eastern European Regional Environment Centre until its closure. Government referral T/12878. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-09-22-121	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to enable Parliament to approve the 2014 Act of XIII by adopting this Act. to terminate the headquarters agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Central and Eastern European Regional Environment Centre. The reason for this is that the operation of the organisation could not be guaranteed from a financial point of view due to the ongoing lack of liquidity and was even insolvent by the end of 2018. In view of this, the primary objective was to abolish the organisation by consensus, but due to the abstention of the parties, Hungary now wishes to step out of the organisation unilaterally, one of the conditions of which is the termination of the seat agreement. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has not acted in accordance with the principle of sound financial management and that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has jurisdiction over the Court of Justice of the European Union and that the Court of Justice of the European Union has jurisdiction over the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of the European In view of the fact that there was no chance of termination by consensus of the founding members due to the express abstention of the majority of the parties, Hungary maintained its intention to withdraw, so after the adoption of this draft law by Parliament, our country can unilaterally settle the termination of the headquarters agreement in Hungary on the basis of Article 13 (2), with the necessary internal legal basis. I ask this House to support and adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-09-22-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Regional Environment Centre for Central and Eastern Europe was established in 1990 on the initiative of the United States, the European Commission and Hungary. Its task is to support the management of environmental issues, primarily in Central and Eastern Europe. The headquarters of the international organisation are located in Szentendre. It's 1918/2018. However, Government Resolution No.3 provides that the use of Szentendre real estate provided by the Government of Hungary as its head office will be terminated due to its flood protection situation and will provide the environmental centre with a new, cost-effective, suitable property in Budapest. Point 7 of the 2018 Government Decision calls on the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade to take the necessary measures in the context of the change in the seat of the Central and Eastern European Regional Environment Centre. As a result of this review, it is necessary for the Centre to have 158/2012. The termination of the status agreement for Hungary, which was declared by the Government Resolution No. Due to the intention to terminate the status agreement for Hungary and to terminate the real estate transfer agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central and Eastern European Regional Environment Centre signed on 19 December 1995, it is also appropriate to terminate the headquarters agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Centre. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you. [[13.40]]
u2020-09-22-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-09-22-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I was a little surprised when I saw this proposal, and that is because we are talking about an institution that has put a lot on the table over the past decades. And it is also a fact that it must be said that from 2018 onwards, however, there are problems with its operation and that the function for which it was originally created really does not fulfil it. But I think that it would not be the elimination or plowing that would be the first priority here, but that we should sort out the fate of this institute, appoint or find the right people who can control it, who can steer this institution in the right way, so that they can re-work the task that, by the way, made this institution the second most important environmental institution in Europe and Central and Eastern Europe. So I think maybe we should think about this. Perhaps a second chance would deserve this extremely important institution. Let's try, I think, to save him, to get him back where he belongs, and to re-establish the very important tasks he has done here in the region. Thank you.
u2020-09-22-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic Group.
u2020-09-22-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the rare occasions that Tibor Nunkovich and I do not have much debate. Nor on this subject, since the institution has performed extremely important tasks in the past, and the subjects that belong to its competence are also considered important by the Hungarian government and Fidesz-KDNP. I think that what we are discussing here is the joint termination of a treaty based on international rules, an agreement based on international law, the termination of the headquarters agreement does not affect the objectives for which the institutions established by either the institution, other institutions or other European institutions or the Hungarian government cannot act. I have always been a fan of regional cooperation, as Europe is also characterised by regional positions and divisions. We see that regional cooperation in Central and Eastern Europe, whether in any field, in the field of infrastructure, in the field of environmental protection, in the field of the economy or in other areas of social sciences, is important to promote regional cooperation. We are talking about the abolition of a very simple headquarters agreement in international law, which does not affect those content in such a way that we consider them to be important. I think that in international treaties it is also worth following the principle that the foreign affairs portfolio also applies in the area of external relations, that effectiveness, the service of national interest, must be the main aspect. It is just not worth organizing a diplomatic event to sign a declaration of principle, but to include actions, continuous decisions behind the declarations of principle, of course, the resources assigned to these agreements. I believe that Hungary's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has always acted accordingly, and that efficiency, capacity and representation of Hungarian national interests were the first. All we are talking about here is the termination of the headquarters agreement. Of course, as it is in international law, as Parliament authorises the government to do so, we can support it. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for your work in this area and for your extensive work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-128	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-09-22-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here in the general debate, perhaps Mr Secretary of State could have given us some more clarification, since there are some issues that should be clarified in order to decide that we can support this proposal on our own. So let us hope that we will receive more detailed information on the reason why this change is taking place, how this affects the life of the centre and is a disadvantage for it. If this does not give rise to any confusion in the life of the organization, then of course we can support it ourselves, but if this causes a more serious problem in the day's operation, then we will probably abstain. Later, the MSZP fraction will decide on this important issue. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-130	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-09-22-131	Thank you very much. Dear House, I can make a very similar statement about this bill, as Congressman Mesterházy did. The problem is that there are many open questions and, unfortunately, the Secretary of State has not been sufficiently reassuring in this respect. This is an important institution, whose operation in Hungary has, by the way, brought considerable prestige in the given area, and although the reason for the bill suggests that they will receive another property here, but we do not decide on this now, we will only decide to terminate the current headquarters agreement and, in addition, with one-sided action, which is certainly disturbing and does not look particularly good about the country. We will establish our position on this proposal later.
u2020-09-22-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group, applied for a comment. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP faction has already established its position, but we will not be able to support this proposal. It is indeed a technical decision, a unilateral decision on the registration of a site in the context of the change or cancellation of the seat of the Regional Environment Centre for Central and Eastern Europe, but we are talking about it in particular here, and this can in fact answer Mr Attila Mesterházy's point of view that the operation of this very important institution is virtually impossible. And we don't really see the reason for that, and we don't see what the government has done for its part in recent years, so that it doesn't. We consider it very, very important to talk for at least a few sentences about when this institution was set up, whose initiative, how and how it had a great impact. Perhaps few of my fellow Members know that an international expert company arrived in Hungary on the proposal of President Bush Sr. in July 89 and, following an initiative, was set up in 1990; REC has always been mentioned in the environmental profession. This was an extremely important institution, whose most important activities included extremely topical and very, very important tasks. It declared to help solve environmental problems, especially in Central and Eastern Europe; to implement international-governmental cooperation in environmental decisions; to ensure free flow of information; to take part in exploring current environmental problems in the region; to support the environmental protection of civil society professionally and financially; to facilitate the transfer of information on the state and protection of the environment; to monitor global environmental problems. So all of these are issues that are very topical today, and we can say that these are tasks related to the greatest challenge of the age, climate change and very serious environmental destruction, environmental damage. As a result, REC's activities have been of great importance; over the past long years, they have been in contact with 5 million students from twenty countries, have worked with over a thousand civil society organisations in many local environmental actions and have helped 4.8 million people. On the 25th anniversary of the founding of REC, President János Áder welcomed his activities. And then we can ask what happened. So here we are talking about financial inability, some of these other, unexplored problems. The question is what the Hungarian Government has done for its part to prevent this from happening. And perhaps, if the government considers these issues to be really important not only at the level of a parliamentary speech, then why did it not take any meaningful steps, let us say, to allow such a very, very important central, a true spiritual workshop to continue to function within a different framework, perhaps under the umbrella of the V4s? What we can see from this proposal is that this valuable property on the bank of the Danube will be transferred to the Agricultural Ministry, just as the former independent Ministry of Environment has been placed under the Agricultural Ministry, but I think that it should have been done in this case. [[13.50]] This is a very, very important, serious loss, and indeed, as Tibor Nunkovics said, his duty and important responsibility are to the government, so that such an important institution can function again. In any case, the decision is saddening. The LMP faction will no longer be able to support this proposal for symbolic reasons. Thank you.
u2020-09-22-134	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2020-09-22-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, In his excellent speech, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa said what we think about regional cooperation and environmental protection, and the areas mentioned by my fellow Member Lóránt Keresztes, tasks, territories, are really very important tasks and areas, and we can very much agree with that. This organisation, this centre, is impossible both financially and in terms of its operation, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to terminate the Headquarters Agreement. All in all, I ask my fellow Members to study the proposal, consider and support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-09-22-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have until Thursday the opportunity to submit amendments. The general debate of the bill on the termination of the International Convention on the International Cooling Institute in Paris, 1 December 1954, until its closure. The government referral T/12881. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-09-22-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to terminate the International Convention on the International Cooling Institute signed in Paris on 1 December 1954 by Decree-Law No 12 of 1956, terminating Hungary's membership in the International Cooling Institute. Our country was a founding member of the International Cooling Society, established on 25 January 1909, which won its name from the International Cooling Institute with the international agreement adopted on 21 June 1920. At the time of the foundation of the International Cooling Technology Institute, Hungary had the main opportunity to obtain up-to-date information about modern cooling technologies and to establish and maintain contact with the international market. The change of regime and then the accession to the European Union created a new situation, which allowed our country to become a member of organisations that are more capable of developing professional knowledge. While the International Cooling Institute is primarily involved in the processing of technologies, the use of technologies to which other international organisations focus is a more decisive area for fruit and vegetable processors. Since Hungary is a member of the European Association of Fruit and Vegetables Processors, our membership in the International Cooling Institute has become obsolete, the industry has lost interest in the work of the Institute. According to the Convention, each Member State has the right, at least one year in advance, to leave the Institute or to move to a lower group. The International Cooling Technology Institute has been established by an international treaty and the Convention must be terminated for the termination of our membership. The termination of the Convention does not violate EU obligations, many Member States of the European Union such as Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta and Portugal are not members of the Institute. I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill on the basis of the reasons set out above. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-138	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Wolf. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-09-22-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of technical and political changes in recent decades, we need to review our membership of international organisations from time to time. The bill on the international treaty before us abolishes Hungary's membership, which it wears at the International Cooling Institute. The agreement establishing the Institute itself has been amended several times over the last decades, taking into account technical and scientific requirements and the economic conditions of that age. Our country was a founding member of the International Cooling Society, established on 25 January 1909, which won today's designation with the international convention adopted on 21 June 1920. At the beginning of the last century, the institute in question, as has been said, had the most important platform for Hungary to keep in touch with the international market or to obtain information about modern cooling technologies. According to the original text of the Convention, the Contracting Parties have decided to maintain close cooperation with regard to the study of scientific and technical issues related to cooling and the development of the application of cooling, which improves people's well-being. Today, however, the change of regime and our accession to the European Union create new opportunities. Our country could also become a member of organisations in this area that can provide a more serious background for the development of technological and professional knowledge. As has been said, Hungary is a member of the European Association of Fruit and Vegetables Processors, so our membership in the International Cooling Institute has become obsolete. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-22-140	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-09-22-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In fact, as with the previous bill, I'm a little confused about why we're a problem in such an organization. I do not understand how this could add to the country's public finances, because we were founding members of the legal predecessor of the organization, in which professionals were able to share very serious information and materials, there have been a lot of positive effects on our participation in this organisation that have had a positive impact on the Hungarian fruit and vegetable industry, and I think that this good impact in the future is something that the Agricultural Ministry wants to continue, at least I hope that this is what is in the plans. In fact, I would like a concrete answer to this question as to why our continued participation in this organization is considered unnecessary. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-09-22-142	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Nunkovich. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-09-22-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Although it has been said, and Hungary was indeed a founding member of the International Cooling Society, which was established in 1909, it was then called that, and then later it took the name of the International Cooling Institute, but I think that, in response to the question of Tibor Nunkovics, that if there was no advantage in it, the technique exceeded the expertise there, we can replace it with more important, much more advantageous memberships for Hungarian agriculture, then it is not worth staying somewhere because of nostalgia because we were founding members. I think this is the policy of then, the then leadership, the then agriculture ministers who prepared this membership, because I think it was a very modern thing, 110-111 years ago. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] But what we see is that now, in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, this membership has become outdated, outdated and unnecessary, because we are in the era of commercial wars, and we are in the process of intense competition for investment. [[14.00]] In the past, it has been possible to succeed by supporting investments in the most innovative sectors with as much added value as possible, with environmental aspects and energy-saving solutions as much as possible today. It has now become clear that the agriculture and food industry, which has been often pitied, despised, underslaught, is one of the most innovative sectors and has a much more important role to play in the world of climate change than perhaps ever before. Therefore, it cannot be a question that we Christian democrats support the efforts of the government and the agricultural portfolio to make Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian food industry as sustainable as possible and as innovative as possible, as possible, as possible, protected from weather extremes. This includes increasing irrigable land, using renewable energy sources, supporting innovative investments and useful and beneficial membership of various international organisations. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] As Minister of State has already said, Hungary is a member of the European Association of Fruit and Vegetables Processors. The use of these technologies is clearly the most advantageous for Hungarian fruit and vegetable processors, so our membership of the institute in the said cooling institute has now become redundant. I think it was a nice thing then, and it is good that we remember 111 years later in Parliament that Hungary was a founding member of this institute, this company, but at the same time the time is passing, the technologies are renewed, sometimes we have to move on, this is proof of that. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál and Farkas Sándor applaud.]]
u2020-09-22-144	Thank you. I give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that one more sentence was added by Lőrinc Nacsa, that respect for traditions was part of KDNP's policy, and then it would have been in its absolute place, and it would have followed that, in addition to respect for traditions, it would be worth maintaining such membership, if not for other reasons, because it would not cause damage and the exit would not benefit. I hope, Mr Secretary of State, that you will clarify the main reason why we will not remain among the members of such an organisation, the founding members, of which all the other major countries are also involved, and that there may be other countries, perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to answer that question, who are destined to take a similar step. That Hungary is only fitting into the line that countries are leaving this organisation on similar grounds, or that Hungary is the only country that has made this decision, where appropriate. Thus, at the moment, the MSZP faction has not yet been able to take a position on this issue, whether we support it or not. I hope that these important issues will be clarified in the general debate. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-146	Thank you. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-147	Thank you very much. Dear House, In any case, we can see with satisfaction that the European Union, which the Prime Minister wanted to defeat yesterday, including in a long newspaper article, is, at some point, a good thing for the country, and the recognition of this is reassuring. However, it is not at all comforting to hear this justification, which we have heard both in the bill and in the debate, because I have no reason to doubt the expertise of my fellow Member on cooling issues, but I would be more reassured if the reasons were so kind as to say what costs we are saving, on the one hand, in this way. 'Cause I suspect that maybe what happened here in every ministry sometimes comes to mind, but only in smarter ministries, they stop at this time, that at international membership fees, you can save a few euros, and then how good it will be in the budget. So, I think maybe that's the case, we just need to see exactly what cost-effectiveness calculation was then, what benefits are there, what damages are there. This has been missed by the government, so we cannot support this proposal.
u2020-09-22-148	Thank you. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. No further comments were therefore made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank you for the additions, information and detailed explanations that my fellow Members have said here, either on the part of Fidesz or on the part of KDNP. I think that these issues are now, and membership in this organization... of course we have membership fees, a minimum membership fee, that is not the point. The important question is that practically the cooling system that has been dealt with in this institute has long since been outdated, and there are completely new processes, new cooling technologies, which, according to me and our information, seem to have gone a little beyond them. Therefore, we consider it important to use new, innovative equipment, new, innovative technologies, to familiarise ourselves with other research centres, cooling units, not least with new processes, and to acquire them is the possibility of the Hungarian cooling industry, the further development of the cooling industry. So we feel that professionally, this organization is practically obsolete if I put it mildly and not in violation of anyone. That is why we thought that we could work together in a much more innovative, forward-looking activity in other institutions, which are similar to today's times and the future, with the possible re-initiation of different membership relationships. So I believe that it is extremely important for the Hungarian agriculture to apply these latest technologies to the cooling and canning industry, and so I put it this way, an institution operating along outdated technologies, which is operating somewhere for a few moments, does not make much sense. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál and Nacsa Lawrence applaud.]]
u2020-09-22-150	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear House, There will be a general debate on the bill on each trust fund and its asset allocation until closure. The government referral T/12884. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-22-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The purpose of the bill before us is to strengthen civil society organisations that are independent of the government and the state, to strengthen organisations that carry out their tasks for a public purpose. The bill has three elements. One is the establishment of the Millenáris Scientific Cultural Foundation, and the other is the transformation of the Batthyány Lajos Foundation and the accession of the state to the Foundation and to the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation. In all three cases, these civil society organisations, these social organisations, are organised to carry out a public task. It is our view, and this is the experience so far, that these organisations carry out this task with high efficiency, high quality and national commitment. Obviously, here the Millenáris Science Cultural Foundation is an organization that is now being set up, where Millenáris Park can only and can only be started from its activities so far. But the Batthyány Lajos Foundation, which was established at the initiative of József Antall, the Prime Minister elected by the first freely elected Parliament, has been a foundation operating in a virtually agreed manner since then, as well as the Mathias Corvinus College and the Foundation operating it, have been part of Hungarian public life for 25 years now, and these foundations contribute to the operation of the democratic public, to the support of various scientific projects in the public life with the right national commitment, and the Mathias Corvinus College has been tasked by the Parliament to establish a talented care network covering the entire Carpathian Basin, starting from the scope of activity that it has carried out in the last two and a half decades. [[14.10]] Looking back on the Millenary's past, many recall the Ganz Electricity Works Lövőház Street site, which was one of Belbuda's largest contiguous rust zones. With regard to the Millenary investment, which, I believe, is a pleasure for all of us regardless of party standing and political affiliation, I am pleased to say that not only the former industrial area has been brought to life, but also the whole of Belbuda. This process was defined by the urban rehabilitation that started in the late 2000s, which clearly confirmed its own central nature. The Millenáris Park opened its doors as an attractive, lovable community space during the summer of 2001 during the first Orbán government, from every corner of which the thoughtfulness and national pride radiated. I think there was also a role to be played by the strong content and the special architectural and landscape-building militia unit. It is true, and I do not expect an easy hearing of this bill because, despite the fact that the positive perception of Millenáris Park among the average Hungarian citizens, I believe that after the 2002 government change, Millenáris became one of the main targets of left-wing politics, and during the period 2002-2010, Millenáris completely lost its original mission, that is to say, to be a cultural and intellectual centre that symbolizes national cohesion, values and world-class Hungarian knowledge, to be a meeting point. After 2010, farming was stabilised and the park section Millenáris and the neighbouring Széllkapu received a total investment aid of HUF 28 billion. Of course, until recently, until the investment was completed, there have been continuous attacks on the left, but since the investment has been completed and it can be seen that it is a rust-zone investment that protects the built and environmental heritage and that the rust-zone-stopping investment is being made, these attacking sounds have subsided. At the moment, this area is the Millenáris Nonprofit Kft. operates as a public company. Let us admit that this is not the most effective cultural service structure. The proposed method of operation, which can be seen in this bill, has the potential of an operational concept that can make this area sustainable in the medium term and profitable and self-sufficient in the long term. This can provide a guarantee that the deterioration and decline in quality, which has been the case before the completion of the entire investment, will not occur. We believe that in the long term the foundation frameworks can function as a predictable, transparent and civil-sphere-promoting, forging structures, a stable vision for these organisations, greater independence and greater flexibility. We hope that Millenáris Hungary will become the most prestigious venue, cultural, innovative and safe community space as a result. The Batthyány Lajos Foundation was established in 91 on the initiative of Prime Minister József Antall, as I mentioned. His name was given by the first Hungarian government responsible for the death of a martyr in 1849. The foundation has contracted to support Hungarian public life dedicated to the Hungarian nation, which is based on common cultural values towards European unity and democratic representative governance, according to the objectives set out in its founding document. In the framework of these foundation activities, it provides two main directions. On the one hand, civil society is organised, there are regular international public scientific conferences, round table discussions and various programmes, and on the other hand it supports the programmes and initiatives of these other civil society organisations with similar activities. The Foundation has been operating continuously since 91, and has been receiving state aid since 91, and no problems have arisen in connection with its operation. We also believe that greater flexibility, sustainability and independence in the public interest foundation formula can be able to preserve Prime Minister József Antall's initiative for a long time. The third element of the bill, as I mentioned, is the support of the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation. The Carpathian Basin Talent Care and Hungarian National Talent Care is the responsibility of this foundation, which now follows the spring decision of the National Assembly in the form of a public-interest trust fund. I still remember our discussions in the spring, we had debates in the context of the bill, but one thing is certain, and this is confirmed by the opposition lines on the left, that in two and a half decades the Mathias Corvinus College has done talent-care, educating, research work that is of high quality, in the interests of the nation and is unquestioned. This has been confirmed on a number of sides by opposition, not only by pro-government representatives. It was part of the professional concept at the time that the university education in Cluj-Napoca, a university education plus a boarding school in Budapest, should also appear in cities with the most important university education rights. In this context, it would be possible to give a property in practically decade-defeated, unused and a disgrace to Pécs into the property of the Mathias Corvinus Collegium, which could be the centre of the operation in Pécs, after, of course, the appropriate and legal reconstruction of the monument. So this would be a suitable real estate for the city of Pécs County, which is a patina university city, to display this talented logic in the Carpathian Basin to a decent standard. Therefore, the bill before us proposes that the situation of this state-owned property, which, as a sad memento, has been owned by the state for decades, be settled in a long-term and worthy manner. These three elements are in the bill right now. I would like to ask the honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, opposition and party groups to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As has been said, Mr Secretary of State has explained in detail that the bill before us concerns three areas, three separate areas, but yet there is a similarity with regard to the three objectives. The first chapter relates to the establishment of the bill in the form of the Millenáris Scientific Cultural Foundation in the form of a trust of public interest. As has been said, the tasks of the Foundation are to ensure the establishment and operating conditions of a scientific, cultural and educational centre and an innovative family-friendly, interactive community space. The Secretary of State described in detail the essence of the Millenáris project, the history, the past, the political battles on Millenáris and the unfounded left-wing attacks that occurred in previous years. Previously, this area was a disgrace to the city in Buda, and now, thanks to the government policy of recent years, it has become one of the prides of Budapest. The first etap, the first chapter, took place during the first Orbán government, and now we have completed the rehabilitation of this area, and indeed a XXI. A modern centre in Buda was built in the first century. [[14.20]] I think that every Hungarian person in Budapest can be proud of this project. There is a transformation here, as has been said, in order to make it work more efficiently. The foundation structure provides greater operational security, greater operational capacity to achieve the objectives set, and the necessary guarantees are included in the legislation, as the Board will exercise the full range of founding rights. In relation to the stock deposits to be placed in the property of the Millenáris Foundation, the legislation states that, in the case of the intention to dispose of them, the State is entitled to a pre-emptive right and that the disposal of a third party may only take place if the State does not intend to enter into the relevant legal transaction. Ladies and gentlemen, The second goal in the proposal is that the government joins the Batthyány Lajos Foundation on behalf of the State, which is declared a public-interest trust fund. The aim of the Batthyány Lajos Foundation is to support Hungarian public life, which is committed to the Hungarian nation and which is based on common cultural values and democratic representative governance, which is clearly a public benefit. The Foundation has placed great emphasis on the organisation of civil society, providing support for educational activities and talent management, minority communities, supporting historical research and supporting family support programmes. The foundation also carries the spiritual heritage of József Antall to some extent. The history of the foundation has been told; French state leaders have collected the first forints to launch the foundation, so they have received serious international support, they have received serious European support from this foundation and receive it continuously. The government considers it important to carry on the intellectual heritage of József Antall, the Hungarian intellectual heritage, and the foundation is already performing outstanding activities in this area. By joining the State now, it receives resources for further operation and guarantees for predictable longer term planning, it can perform its important and recognised tasks even more effectively. Finally, in the third part, the proposal provides for two properties in Pécs to be owned by the Mathias Corvinus College and by the Collegium Foundation. The legislation also establishes significant guarantees for real estate to be owned by the MCC Foundation, since in the case of these broken, broken-down, bad-case buildings in Pécs, as Mr State Secretary has shown, it is also a rule for the possible sale of real estate that the proceeds may be used only to achieve the objectives set out in the MCC Act after the settlement of the costs of the transfer. It is well known that the aim of Mathias Corvinus Collegium, which has been operating since 1996, is to care for talent, to further train highly talented Hungarian students, to provide the right conditions for these students, and, as appropriate, to achieve these goals, adequate infrastructure conditions are necessary. These are the objectives of the current proposal, and in the case of Pécs, two properties are covered by this legislation. It is also clear that the intensive development of the Mathias Corvinus Collegium, a nearly one and a half-year example of Corvinus University in recent years and the successful functioning of other universities with foundational reservations ensure that this structure is successful and that its further application is justified. I am convinced that the provisions of the bill will greatly increase the operational possibilities of both the Millenáris Foundation and the Batthyány Lajos Foundation and the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation, thus promoting the promotion of Hungarian national cultural values and the issue of Hungarian talent management. The Fidesz faction supports the bill, and I ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-154	Thank you. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The fact is, once again, in the era of political tribal wars, everyone in their own opinion bubble does not actually argue with anyone, nor can it be called a debate of faith what is ahead of us. With regard to the outsourcing of assets to foundations, the government side obviously says that they are comforting to the experience of recent years, they see that this is a much more functional, more effective form than before, and on the opposition side they typically bring up this verse, we usually bring it up, I think it's quite right, but I am at the same time modest in terms of the effectiveness of persuasion. I would like to tell you that the introduction of the proposal itself was a little irritating, since a new communication narrative was published at the Fidesz Centre that the opposition should be left-wing, regardless of whether there are both left- and right-wing fair forces on the opposition side. That Fidesz began to call himself not only a right-wing government, but a national government, which had nothing to do with this process in 2010, at least rhetorically, since then. There is nothing better to show that, in the constant insanity with which I can identify, that I have acted against the excesses of various NGOs since the 1990s, when you were still operating in the area of the Liberal Internationale, but at the height of 2010-11, you have still personally hosted this Agg billionaire within Parliament, and somehow you were not so determined on this issue, but you could have been. The wind rooster has since turned a great deal, Fidesz calls itself a national and left the whole opposition, whether it is true or not, but in the great national heat they have forgotten something, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members. There was a promise of 2010 here, and in the other Chamber he made a secretary of state and then a minister, who led a Fidesz potenta. This was a promise of a national inventory, which has not yet been completed, unfortunately it has not been placed on the table of Parliament. It's a register of certain state-owned assets, yes. It is memorable that the Lanchid has been forgotten, for example, that Parliament's building was fortunately on this list, so where we were arguing, that is at least under state property in the world of Fidesz, but let us not confuse state and national wealth. completely different economics category, it contains completely different wealth elements and cannot be treated as the same. What I would like to say from this is that, in the possession of a national inventory, we would be able to determine much more effectively, fellow Members, whether the effective management of the given national asset has occurred, has increased this wealth, or has suffered damage during its management. At the same time, I see that the Government of Hungary has not started in this direction, but rather in the direction of excavating and then increasing the family silver, but in unorthodox methods. We could have a long faith dispute with Mr. Secretary of State about whether the form of foundation is effective or not. I am not completely shut down, so if the market confirms that national wealth elements or very important national strategic workshops and research institutes are more protected in this form, let us say, from State overreactions that we have experienced since 2010, then I say that I am open to debate. However, what I see is that certain provisions of the National Property Act no longer apply in the case of assets outsourced to various trust funds. Perhaps we should consider, in order to understand the whole problem that we are facing here, the provisions that you previously had or would have had to comply with in relation to a national asset. Now, with respect to trust funds, which are typically led by good friends, former business associates, subordinates, respect for the exception, they will no longer necessarily respect it, or, ultimately, not necessarily according to the law. Obviously, the condition that the use of the transferred property should be reported annually to the transferring entity, which was previously mandatory under the National Property Act, is a genre dispute, and the frequency and nature of the report could still be overlooked in the case of a more effective form of operation. However, which is also not to be applied in your new world in the case of trust funds from the provisions of the National Property Act, and this is that if the party receiving the asset does not comply with the intended exploitation in whole or in part, it is obliged to terminate the infringement status by the deadline after the request of the entity transferring the property. We do not see the same provision in this depth and in this respect in trust foundations. And the hardest part is that, under the law on national property, the body transferring the property, if a breaching state is raised, and it is not charged on demand, may choose to withdraw from the contract leading to the free transfer of ownership instead of the claim for a penalty. [[14.30]] So you can attempt to restore the original state, which has been possible so far in the classic handling of a national asset; so the infringement is solved and corrected by trying to achieve an integral restitution, at least to approach and restore the original state. The fact is, in the case of your trust funds, this is not possible at the same time, or not so easily, smoothly possible. In addition, who appoints the curatorium of these foundations? The Minister and all founders' rights, even the right to amend the statutes, are transferred to the Board of Governors, and the end result is that these foundations are as much separated from the state, from the state's supervision, and the operation of the transferred assets and foundations is out of the control that we could jointly exercise in an ideal situation. Well, it is disappointing for us to know what the ultimate purpose of this is. In my view, the fact that it is significantly more difficult to access these workshops in the event of a change of government will make it much more difficult to influence their operations, whether they manage or control their assets belonging to their former state or national assets. And this has bothered many of us a little, that we can see that they are trying to build a state within the state, to outsource units that were previously under parliamentary control, but now they want to put it only under the control of the Fidesz-KDNP government; once again, by achieving a state that, after a change of government, this reparation and restoration will be very, very difficult. From such an approach, I would therefore ask you to accept the perfectly normal concerns of opposition representatives, since recent times have shown that, not underestimating or scolding anyone who is, say, in the board of trustees, that the Prime Minister's former photographer, former press chief and officials who are, in a net way, very close to your supreme leadership are placed in the board of trustees of these foundations. I'm not saying that you shouldn't understand an excellent potenta in a field that is needed here. So I don't want to be a systemic dozer in this whole system, but at this level and at this level, I have to say that the horse's foot is hanging out, so practically the narrow circle of the government's top management is trying to disposing over state and national assets over which we have been able to control fully, if not to exercise perfectly, but at least thought experiments have taken place in this direction over the last 30 years. I can very, very much identify with the early fidesz speeches, which, say, from the first half of the '90s, have been cutting down liberal wild game from a little beginning, declaring war on the communist heritage that has really treated state and national assets amazingly. I do not want to see this era again in a Fidesz-KDNP gown by reorganizing state and national assets for themselves. I fear, and this fear, then, in the form of such a revelation, I shall share with you, I fear that Fidesz's top management, when he was young, fought honestly against a communist-socialist arrangement, if any, but my fear is embodied in the fact that during the constant struggle he was actually likened to those he fought against, and begins to use today the same methods, leaving the Middle Ages against his political opponents as they used against him in his late youth. That's a fear you'll have to put away. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-22-156	Thank you. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have reached such a point in the identity crisis of Jobbik that Dániel Z. Carpát is now trying to dissect in public speeches, that Jobbik is the right or left party, and here he is trying to discuss before the plenum where he belongs. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not your fault...]] Congressman, you're saying that we don't know what e-mails we got from the party center, or I don't know what to say. We believe in our eyes, you're acting like a left-wing party. If you don't want us to say that, don't act like this. I think it's that simple. As regards the questions raised by you, this right-left debate is particularly exciting in the light of the fact that you are asking us to reduce national wealth, while your principle friends have a common logo for the Ferenc Gyurcsány whom you applauded yesterday... they have stolen the country, privatized 190 state companies, half the state's wealth has fallen during their time, applauding them and asking us to account for it. Maybe there's this dissonance here, which explains why we sometimes use the left-wing expression in our communication for you. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not your fault, I'm not angry.]] But let's keep going. 7,000 billion... it's okay, Congressman, you could've just said your thoughts here for ten minutes. State wealth has increased by 7,000 billion forints in the last ten years; 7,000 billion forints. I would like you to be aware of the news about this. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You forged the statistics!]] I recommend to you the National Asset Manager's website, the corporate or real estate portfolio, the various lists made of this, the annexes to various laws. And yes, we are proud that we have increased our national wealth by HUF 7000 billion, that we have been able to pursue a patriot policy that has led to an increase in state wealth of HUF 7000 billion, while your lucky allies have done the same. It was carried out, and in the course of the robbery privatisations the state suddenly became private property; for example, when Ferenc Gyurcsány was on the government, and Mr Arató was State Secretary. Now, let's take a look at the case of the Millenary, because it's a nice case for me. I love Millenáris. I've spent a lot of time there in my high school years. Of course, there was a socialist witch hunt against the Millenary. [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you enjoy this?]] I don't know why they were angry with Millenáris, its CEO, before, after 2002-2003, why they tried to disable that project by all means, why they tried to make Gestapo methods impossible for its CEO, why they tried to destroy the whole Millenáris. Suck on it. Suck on it. Fortunately, this turned in 2010, and I think that today even your home press, 444, acknowledged that the Széllkapu project was very successful. Although you have been silent, and those of you who have scolded this project in a loud voice are now rather silent and not apologizing for it. This was a project specifically for the benefit and benefit of Budapest and the Buda districts. I think that the form of foundation introduced here in the bill will be useful for visitors, people living in the area and for those who want to relax, to relax and to relax. I am pleased that in this form of foundation, Millenáris will be able to continue to function for many young people through exhibitions, through cultural experiences, through artistic monuments and through community creation. I mean, I think that such a community space is worthless without a community, without people, we have to look at people in it, it has to serve the purpose of this investment and this change for the foundation, so that Millenáris does not function as an office, but that it can function as a foundation close to the people, which aims to create the community, which I would consider to be particularly important. I was very impressed in my childhood by the exhibition "Dreams of Dreams," which Commissioner Arató will say in his speech why it was destroyed. They didn't put it in a warehouse, but destroyed the exhibition "Dream Dreams" after returning the memorabilia that belonged to one of the private owners, they simply made the rest of the exhibition equal to the land. This is what national pride, patriotism and the glorious past of Hungary meant to the left in 2003. Dániel Z. Kárpát complained that there is a system of accounting that if a person does not carry out the management of assets for the purposes granted or does not use the property for that purpose, there must be action against the unlawful conduct, and this must otherwise be indicated. By doing so, he acknowledged that there was such a signalling system, or such a good, transparent system, and appropriate to the original goals. Now that I've gone over the list, I think there's a case like this right now that the trust fund isn't dealing with wealth for purpose, this is the University of Theatre and Film Arts, because they gave the institution to the trust fund for education, not for trouble. But I hope that this internal matter will be resolved very soon, so now it's the only case. I think you object to the fact that there are not enough violations. I'm glad there aren't enough violations and these trust funds are working well. In recent years, in the debate of all such legislative proposals, you have said that this will or will not work, and time has shown that they can function, function transparently, function according to the goals assigned to them, and otherwise they can function for the benefit of Hungarian society, for the benefit of Hungarian society, which I think is the most important. [[14.40]] That's what we're talking about at Mathias Corvinus, by the way. I think that talent in the Carpathian Basin is a common concern for all of us, and I do not think that we should have a party political debate here on how important it is to care for talent, because we should only bid on each other, because I think that every party considers it important to care for talent. Not all parties consider the issue of trans-border talent management important, but it is again, thank God, a marginal minority currently in parliament. I think that the issue of talent management is a joint matter, a national matter, it is important that we find those talents, it is important that we know those talents in a good environment, it is important that we lead those talents on their path, who can later enhance Hungary's reputation, add them to the building of society, who can create value. So I think this is also a forward-looking initiative. I would even say to Dániel Z. Kárpát, who was an example of the state and outsourcing, that, for example, the Batthyány Lajos Foundation will now have government involvement, so we will not outsource it, but the state intends to participate in the legacy of the Batthyány Lajos Foundation, József Antall, so there are very opposite processes, as the Member said. I am glad that József Antall's legacy does not vanish, that the help of the political culture of young people does not vanish, but in this way it can only grow stronger and move up qualitatively. I therefore support the three amendments before us. These are not related amendments, but all three serve the cause of the Hungarian nation, which is why we can support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-158	Thank you. I give the floor to Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-159	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I understand this is your first vice president's meeting, Mr. President?
u2020-09-22-160	No. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No, it was yesterday!]]
u2020-09-22-161	I've been meaning to congratulate you on how well you're doing. Dear House, It's very... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He didn't want to sit down.]] No, I complimented him. [[Defiance.]] I'd like to say very, very briefly, and I don't want to go too far into it. I find the debate that Fidesz-KDNP has been trying to continue with Jobbik here for the last two days very charming. If I understood correctly, and if I were such a political analyst now, I would say that we have turned to the election campaign, and they think that this is the part where we have to make a gap in some way. Good, try. Here I thought of an old joke, and I won't tell you: when the husband of the crime tells the wife who you believe, darling, me or your eyes. So I think it's worth keeping that in mind at all times. Well, as far as the concrete proposal is concerned, I do not want to disappoint anyone here in this debate. Obviously, I myself believe that at one time or another 12 years ago, the reason why the majority of the public foundations were abolished or abolished was because they thought that their efficiency was very limited, they tried or could operate state assets at very, very much cost. I know, I understood, at the beginning, Mr Secretary of State, and I understood what my better fellow Member had responded to. It's a perfectly normal leadership attitude: you go into a company, you see that the pyramid is flat or pointy, and if it's peaked, it flattens it, it makes it smoother, so obviously someone has to touch this case. We also understand that a few years ago, when you decided to bring this system back, you were actually preparing to transform higher education. It is clear, therefore, that in most cases the essence of the establishment of the system in higher education you call in some way effective at the University of Theatre and Film, we see just how well this works, involving private capital and increasing the efficiency of its operation. But it seems that the appetite has come along, while everyone has all sorts of ideas, and I think we can prepare for the coming months, in the next period, that more and more of these types of asset transfer things will appear. I simply cannot now list a single argument from what has been said in the last ten minutes, what really justifies doing these things, what they would otherwise not be able to do in any other way and in any other way, but obviously there is a reason for this, and someday historians will be able to figure it out. I would like to reassure you that we have nothing against the Millenary, for example, I particularly like it. If this makes today any more comfortable in any way, then I'd be happy to take it upon myself and take it upon myself. And as for this new park, the other day my baby and I were playing there. It's a bit much concrete for me, but the kid definitely enjoyed it, and I think it's very important that in the middle of the city there are no further improvements that don't match the function. So in Hungarian, you have my support in this case. As far as the Batthyány Foundation is concerned, I'm sure it's the 1991 goal itself... if you've been watching the foundation, it hasn't actually worked in years. So, if this means now, and then Mr. Secretary of State will nod, or someone will say that they now feel that this goal is very important, and it seems to me that in some respects this is already a dying foundation, right, it was Ambassador Granastói who created it in the past, he was the first such leader, then I would say that, of course, it is a Eligible objective, we would not want to have much to argue with that. As far as the third is concerned, this Mathias Corvinus Collegium: I find it a little unfortunate, Mr. Secretary, that you have been assigned this task, that you must now say this expo. I think it might have been a little more elegant if someone else had done this, but you're the president of this. But your souls on it, if that's the job, that's the job. Obviously, it's not a secret, so we can see exactly what this dorm is, and we can see exactly how we need such a replacement center. It's too bad they're doing this with our money, so that's why there's enough backup where they might take it. But if you think it's a little bit of state money that needs training, then train him. We wish you good luck and good work. Together with all this, I repeat, we do not see any argument or idea in the basic order that we should support in the vote later. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-162	Thank you. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-163	Well, if the opposition's problem with previous agendas was, among other things, that we do not see government intentions clearly, we see there is no such problem here. It's very clear what the government's intention is: to shovel another large portion of public wealth out of state systems and hide it in cleverly small pockets, where they are then, at least according to your dreams, protected during a possible change of government. You can spend some of these, you can give your buddies assignments, and it's a little less transparent. The entire trust fund system was set up for this, it is operated for this, and I must say that these are also good examples. What is least problematic and least controversial is undoubtedly the Batthyány Lajos Foundation. Here it is suggested that if you believe that this foundation has important goals, then why not leave it as a civil society foundation, and why not provide it with public support for clear tasks, there would be a way to do that. I'm gonna have to adjust Mr. Secretary of State a little bit. It's not like us, because we're always fighting, but I'm forced to remind you that you're fucking mistaken. Civil society is not what the state finances, where the state appoints the board, and which the state otherwise uses for political purposes. The CSO is exactly the opposite: it is the CSO that is independent of the state, which operates independently and which tries to use resources outside the state. Now, that's not true of your civil society organisations, your fake civil society organizations, these are hidden government organizations. Of course, I understand that you hate everything that is independent of the government, which represents independence, which in any way has autonomy from government intentions. I just want to ask you to keep the names of civil society organisations out of your mouth. How can I say that they have enough trouble with you, at least don't suffer from being washed together with these government-based, artificial organizations, these government money launderers. I wouldn't talk about the Mathias Corvinus Foundation any longer, and Congressman Gyula Molnár made that very clear. I just want to ask you what happens to the other kids. Why aren't children who go to state higher education and who otherwise want to be brainwashed by the government? Why aren't they important? Why are only those who study at your party college important? That's the only question I have. [[14.50]] Finally, a few friendly words for Millenáris. Architectural issues are not worth discussing here in Parliament, either pro or versus, and I will not do that. I agree about what my fellow Member Gyula Molnár said, by the way, that it is important that in that area, a brownfielder was an industrial field with a value-creating greenfield investment. I'd like to ask you quietly why you only care about the brown fields in Buda. On the other hand, the brown fields in Pest don't get this from you, but from you to install and build housing. But it's a different question. I wouldn't bring that up right now. It's an urban development issue. Believe me, people in the industrial areas of Kőbánya could imagine parks very well, not only the citizens of Buda would be happy about it. But that's not what this proposal is about. And frankly, it's not even about what kind of activity is going on at Millenáris, and the assessment of this is much more mixed. Just because Congressman Nacsa asked me, I will tell him that he is obviously not obliged to remember this by his age, that the dreamers of the dreams were originally intended as temporary exhibitions for a year. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Yeah, yeah, that's right. By the way, the objects were borrowed for that period, so it wasn't really possible to extend them. Moreover, since this had to be presented very urgently at the time because of the political intentions of that time, at the end of a year the hall was already in 60 places, because it was very important for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to be able to present this before the 2002 election. The Millenáris was the Várbazár of that period, and as a result, they did a poor, quality work that required a longer renovation. Well, I think Congressman Nacsa got to the point, actually. Undoubtedly, Millenáris today is a state-based company, which represents a kind of dependence and transparency. It seems to me that you are concerned that, regardless of your pompous rhetoric, you will lose the election and government power in 2022, and are afraid that the next government will also investigate where the public funds will go in Millenáris. You can relax, you will, with all your government funds, otherwise you will. And they think it's a good idea to hide it in a foundation, see if it's more protective. I'd like to tell you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're making me a runaway?]] We're going to investigate all their theft even if they try to hide it with such tricks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And you make me a runner?]] Maybe I won't surprise you by not being able to support this bill.
u2020-09-22-164	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This debate has been going on for a relatively long time, and I do not wish to get involved at the level I have experienced. I think it is absolutely clear to everyone what the intention is in this regard, and I also think that this was an important idea that it was the least important tasks that were behind such proposals as a goal. 'Cause if we were to argue about that, I think we could come up with a pretty big consensus. So, for example, as regards talent in the Carpathian Basin, I do not think there is any substantive debate; this is a completely different question as to how to outsource, say, state property, state property, and how to remove a little more from the democratic framework, from control the management and control of these assets, and control of their use. There was also a debate on efficiency, but I do not want to interfere with that either. In fact, I would like to ask you, as many speakers, about a specific case or the transfer of two properties. Perhaps it is not surprising that as a citizen of Pécs, I would like to ask you about this very old, originally beautiful, patina building on Király Street. Mr. Secretary of State and then I could also put my question to the head of the Board of Governors, saying that Pécs is a patina university town. This is true, the home of the first medieval university in Hungary is the city of Pécs, the first university was founded in 1367, and in this way, I think it is unworthy that our city is in a situation where the university has a much greater significance in the life of the city than in university functions, and it has to face, for example, two billion-dollar withdrawal. So not only the municipalities were affected by government withdrawals, but also the university. What you need to know is that, indeed, this is a very long-term state-owned building, and it is indeed in extremely bad condition. In Király utca, near the Theatre Square, Pécs's diner, the most important pedestrian street in Pécs, is in the condition of this building. What I can tell you is that for a very, very long time, the city leaders in Pécs have been trying to acquire this building, precisely so that it can perform some kind of useful function for the people of Pécs. By the way, left-wing and right-wing mayors tried to get this from the state, and obviously, taking into account Pécs' economic strength, Pécs wanted this building for a symbolic amount, and the citizens of Pécs wanted it. But speaking of university, as far as I know, the University of Pécs wanted this building. My question is why the government rejected this. Political overtones in the context of the University of Pécs cannot or should not be applied. Why can't the University of Pécs really get this building in the heart of the city, in the middle of downtown, in Király utca, and indeed in an undeserved state for a long time, why couldn't the government of Pécs get it, why couldn't the citizens of Pécs get it? I believe that this would have been the most worthy use of the building that was destroyed by the state as a bad farmer, in a very bad condition. This was a national casino in Pécs at the time, it was an officer's club, and I think it would be a worthy place for this city or the University of Pécs. Why did the government refuse to do that? These submissions also state that if the Foundation decides to sell this building, the State has a pre-emptive right. In particular, in relation to the Officer's Club, Mr Secretary of State said that there is a need for a serious renovation and preservation, based on historic protection regulations. It's a huge investment. And then I'd probably ask the head of the foundation how much money they're counting, and the foundation really wants to do that, so you want to renovate this building, what kind of resources the foundation's gonna get. And would it occur to you that in any way this building will be sold by the foundation for any other purpose? How can guarantees be provided in this bill... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: They can't sell...]] I'm sure you'll be able to respond, Secretary of State. So I think that would be totally unacceptable, and it would be equivalent to betraying people in Pécs if this building were then passed on, sold by the foundation and performed some other function. I will also make an amendment, which is already under way, in the spirit that the people of Pécs, through the local government of Pécs, and the University of Pécs, wanted to have this building. I'm going to suggest that the majority of the government reconsider this situation and actually give the people of Pécs this building. And then, so to speak, as compensation, that it has indeed been there for decades in such an ugly, unworthy, bad state in one of the most pathetic streets in Pécs, in this way it would be possible to compensate the people of Pécs to receive it, and even give them the opportunity to renew it. For the Pécs, or for the University of Pécs, I think we can agree on this, too, to use this beautiful building in its original state to exploit very important goals. Again, in fact, we generally agree with the objectives set out here and set out in such proposals, these are important goals, but in this way the implementation does not allow us to support this proposal. And here I am very, very much looking forward to Mr Secretary of State's clear answer regarding the real estate transfer in Pécs. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Now the two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-167	Mr President, Dear House, I'm trying to make the complex operation called "remove the microphone and remove the mask" a reflex. Very briefly, because I would like to respond longer to the economic policy proposals linked to the left, right and national side. I would like to point out to my fellow Member Nacsa that he simply did not understand what I said. The national property law has certain provisions, which must be respected in cases where there is a suspicion of an infringement or where there is a net infringement by an authority. What I was talking about was that if the classic national assets are highlighted from this circle and given to a foundation, and now it becomes a foundation property, it is subject to a different regime than a classic national asset, any member of the state register. Under the current rules, these outsourced wealth is not subject to the very strict guarantees that we could get used to earlier. What I would like is for the same strict guarantee system to apply to assets that a foundation may receive. I am not necessarily a genre rejecter, for example, because Mr. Secretary of State sits here and participates in senior management as a delegate, I would certainly not call the institution associated with them a Janicsar teacher. [[15.00]] Once again, I'm more genreally open, but I want guarantees in this system, and we simply can't find them. So you didn't understand my words. What I wanted to refer to was the absence of the guarantee system in front of me, or the withdrawal from the contract, in terms of foundation property. If you submit a package that will settle this in the course of the day, a very different debate may arise here, but I do not see the intention to do so at the moment. Thank you. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-09-22-168	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr. Barna Pál Sigismund, representative of Fidesz, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond very briefly to the words of Congressman Arato, but because he is not here, so only in two minutes. There's something interesting about the state's wealth being feared here by a representative of the Gyurcsány Party. It is separate, and it should be said here, because I think it is important that everyone on the left now commends József Antall and Millenáris, but it was precisely the left, part of the left, part of the media, who sent József Antall to his death by attacking him unworthyly. I know Mary Berkecz personally, too, and she was very misplaced, and it turned out that she was completely wrongfully accused. So there is something interesting about this, too, that everyone is now expressing their appreciation for the Millenáris project, while they were previously attacked on a political basis, on a clear political basis, unworthy and groundless basis. Of course, there is also some charm, as my colleague Dániel Z. Carpathian, with whom we have fought several times, protects George Soros and protects the world of George Soros. And while you have spoken of the Chain Bridge, here you have listed the Lanchid as the subject of state wealth, I think you should call on your coalition partner here in Budapest, the Mayor, to renew the Lanchid as soon as possible, because there is a growing danger that you cannot use your Lanchi. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-170	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member! I think you understand what I'm saying, but the ownership and the trust funds of the trust funds, these two legal institutions, I think you're confusing, that might be the problem. But I did ask for the floor because I am very happy that Gergely Arató and Gyula Molnár like the Millenáris and like the Széllkapu project. Where were you when the socialists let this go when they were consciously working against Millenary when they let it go down when it turned into a rogue park? Then why didn't they like it so much? When they were in position, when they could have, why didn't they? That's false. However, the most shocking, although Mr Arato rushed out of the meeting quickly, so that he would not listen, there should be no doubt that what he said was said by Ferenc Gyurcsány. So Ferenc Gyurcsány would build a country where right-wing intellectuals and professionally selected institutional leaders are not safe. That is what he was referring to, as he said earlier, when he said he was going to make people run for their lives. So be aware, everyone, that you and Ferenc Gyurcsány as your allies, LMP as well as Jobbik, because you are standing behind him, imagining a country where right-wing intellectuals are not safe. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't be so afraid.]] That's what those words meant. We don't want to live in a country where no one can be safe. I think that what Mr Arató and earlier Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke about are very, very bad times. It represents a very, very dangerous policy, a very bad era for Hungary. I'm asking you not to be allies with him in this, at least. Thank you.
u2020-09-22-172	Thank you. State Secretary Balázs Orbán indicated that he would also like to respond to what was said at this stage of the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-22-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I asked for the floor so that, where appropriate, it might be possible to clarify the issues which have not been clarified. First of all, let me respond to what Congressman Molnar said about why I am here. I think the most natural thing in the world is that I'm here. Because we are talking about a position here, I am also taking a position in the Prime Minister's Office, and by the way, I am the one who knows most of the details about the operation of the given board. Our political community doesn't work like it's some kind of sundae thing, and then the person who does my sundae stuff is hiding behind someone else's back. This may have been a fashion for the socialists in the past, but our political community doesn't work according to that. I am here because I can answer all the questions about this, and I know exactly what kind of professional work is being done in these workshops. What I see is that we can open this debate very wide, and we can start a general political debate if we take a position on increasing or reducing state wealth. But let me have the one sentence that the government after 2010 cannot be accused of squandering state property. The data available, and I agree with Mr Z. Carpathian, that the data available is the same as they are, not unreliable, but reliable, but just how comprehensive they are, is the next question. But we've made progress in this, too, in recent years. But the data that are available and reliable, and the vast majority of these data are related to the acquisition of company shares, so this is the most documented area of national assets, clearly shows that the period before 2010 was about squandering state assets, privatization, and expansion of assets of national strategic importance after 2010. So let's not try to make the sky think it's green and the grass is blue. The other is trust funds. So I understand every left-wing or opposition representative because of the uncertainties associated with trust foundations, because it is a new legal institution. There is such a legal institution, the institution of trust foundations, in democratic countries with more fortunate historical developments. It's an existing construction used by the state, and it's also used by private actors. This was, by the way, a deficiency in civil law relations and in the area of asset security and traffic security, which has been replaced, and I believe that this is a step towards normal, well-meaning capitalist market economy operations, that such a legal institution is now in our possession. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that what Mr Z. Carpathian is saying in connection with the property law concerns the assets that the state is putting into asset management while maintaining state ownership. It'd be weird, though it happens in history, and it's not always wrong for the state to, say, sell or give a piece of property to a private character. If you don't put this property into property management, but you own it, then the property you own in your apartment, I have it in my apartment, and every Hungarian citizen has it on his property and movable property. It is not possible to reduce this right of ownership, because it is not compatible with the rule of law. So what Congressman Z. Karpat is demanding is unconstitutional, it's that simple, so it can't be solved. The third is civil society organisations, and I am glad that Congressman Arato has returned. I agree in the one sentence that civil society organisations have only one, let me say, sine qua non related to their operation, that is independence. These foundations, look at the laws, get to know the Hungarian legal environment, the essence of the legal institution for trust foundations is that these foundations are independent of any external influence. It is precisely because it is not purely decision-making independence, because if a person is not financially independent, otherwise it does not matter what kind of decision-making independence he has, it is not true independence. This is where, for example, NGOs and Soros organisations have a problem that there may be an independent foundation or association or a legal person operating those organisations, but the funding comes from one person and is therefore not economically independent and therefore not independent in terms of the activities they carry out. So if we go into the non-civil story here, it's the fake civilian who might look like he's legally independent, but his economic independence isn't there, and it's affecting his professional activity. In these foundations, the exact opposite is the case, the reason why such a trust fund structure should be operated in this is that I would really ask for the understanding of the more rational part of the left to be not just a formal independence, but also an economic and material type of independence, because it is a guarantee of real independence. By the way, Mr Arató... and thank you, thank you very much personally, many of you have made a positive comment on the other side in connection with the educational and talent-care activities in Mathias Corvinus College. I would like to thank you for this in person, because I think that this is a story beyond party policy logic, Mr Arató. [[15.10]] I would like to reject, on behalf of all the students, what he has said, because it is said that ten-year-old students who have been involved in the program of young talent, for example, in Pécs, for years, in whatever way, whether they would be trained in human science or not in party politics, but in human science, are simply not true. Shame on you, and I wouldn't want to go into this in more detail, but shame on you, because now in that speech, you have insulted not dozens, but hundreds of children from 10 to 14 years of age all over the country, and their parents who are sacrificing their Saturdays to this program so that the child can go to a high school, go to a university and have the life to advance as long as his parents could. I think this is outrageous. I will conclude with this and I will not respond to it again, but I would like to ask very strongly that we not take the debate in this direction. There are several reactions to Pécs, but I'd like to leave it to the end, because it's an important thing. Thank you very much for the Member's request. I'd like to clarify a basic situation here. You said three things in your speech. 1. The Municipality of Pécs County is bleeding out, so there is no source. 2. University of Pécs is bleeding out, so there's no source. 3. Give these two this property because they will be able to complete the very expensive reconstruction of the monuments that you have recognised, which is necessary to enable that officer's casino to operate in its old glory. These three statements cannot be true at the same time. So either one of the three is not true, or the first two are not true, or the third is not true. I think the city of Pécs is in need of help. I have the information about the program of modern cities here, and I can see exactly what kind of government support you will receive, as well as other county-righted cities, regardless of whether you have government or opposition leadership, and the University of Pécs will receive the support you need. I think, for example, that the development of the university can also take place in connection with the involvement of other properties. Moreover, in this case it is not an independent project, because the students of the University of Pécs will attend the boarding school in this talent facility. So either the University of Pécs or Mathias Corvinus Collegium, it's a fake dichotomy, because the two have to cooperate, it's going to be used by students at the University of Pécs, and it's going to use it to strengthen university life in Pécs. Which you specifically formulated, not as Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, but as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Mathias Corvinus, I can make it very clear that I can cut it short. The purpose of the foundation is to perform the restoration of monuments and to run this building as an educational and talented institution. Resources are available for this purpose. This will not go from one moment to the next, it may be necessary to launch design contests, other planning, public procurement requirements and procedures, but we hope that within the framework of the legislation we can recover the patina as soon as possible, and that the public purpose and the public function that is formulated in this bill can be filled by the property. I think that if this happens, it will serve the city of Pécs county at the same time, serving both the University of Pécs and the case of domestic talent management. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-22-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-175	Mr President, Dear House, I, too, would like to respond to some of the ideas expressed in the debate, not to abuse the time frame, so it is not expected that 15 minutes will not be filled. I must first agree with my fellow Member, Mr Barna Pál, that, in the case of a campaign against József Antall or later against Mária Wittner or Gábor Vona, based entirely on lies, I must reject similar methods. Again, I think that all similar methods are unacceptable in Hungarian public life. But I have to say that, unfortunately, with the expansion of the Habony Media, these methods live here among us, and I see that what went against Gábor Vona, and perhaps you can now admit that the vast majority of this is based entirely on groundless, fictional nonsense, and it is no coincidence that Gábor Vona still wins the lawsuits against you today, that they are now applying the same thing to László Bíró in connection with the Borsodi 6 interim election, and because of the same air bullshit, I have won more than half a dozen lawsuits against the various Habony media units and service units, as they spread the most aired craps, whether about me or our family members. I would like to point out to my colleague that, as József Antall, Mary Wittner or Gábor Vona has suffered, it is obvious that you and your family would be put through the trouble of spreading lies about you. I would very much like to see in front of Parliament an anti-fake news package of laws that, from Riposzt to the entire network of lies, everyone involved in this kind of thing... so let's not draw a line just for pro-government media, I wouldn't want to see anyone create a psychic just to piss, piss, piss. My only request is not to be self-righteous on this issue, because it is a very old process, a 30-year process. At the same time, I see more and more harsh, more vulgar and more primitive instruments emerging on these issues. With the statement by my fellow Member that we are supposed to be protecting Soros, there is absolutely nothing I can do. I am appalled by the shortsightedness and narrow-mindedness of religious fanatics who simply burp bullshit into public life. You can't say that any better. It is quite simply amazing when the members of the party association hosting Soros here in Parliament in 2010 and 11 throw up these amazing things on others. I can't do anything about it when Soros Scholarships, former KISZ-functionaries, and party secretaries try to tell us what the national and right side is in the style of a housemaster. I don't understand what they think of themselves. If they have a past that they deny, at least they should do it quietly, and not with egotism, and not in the amazing style that you're experiencing. Once again, KISZ secretaries and janitors are not in our ranks, nor are we telling others how to live in Hungary. Please don't do it either. On the other hand, the concept of patriot politics and economic policy has been mentioned here more than once, which I could very much support, but the Hungarian is not like this at the moment. I do not wish to categorize any changes in the state's wealth, because if the Secretary of State himself confirms and we agree that there is a system and we measure this, but it is not effective at all, then do not draw far-reaching conclusions from the numerical changes that are taking place here. The point is that in thirty years the Hungarian industry, a large part of the Hungarian production capacity, has ceased to exist, and we are now much below the value of the Hungarian workers and workers' work in the international production value chain. Maybe we can all agree on that. Who is responsible for this and how much we have managed to move away from negative conditions, this is debateable in a parliamentary debate system. Where there are different parties, this is a perfectly legitimate suggestion, but let's not question the diagnosis. I see that the governments of the Member States of the European Union are so serene and that the government serving international networks is very, very few found. Let's look at the facts. It's a payoff. It was two months after the outbreak of the epidemiological emergency, when Fidesz-KDNP began to address this issue. According to market experts estimates, they were able to make up 15-20 percent of lost wages, as opposed to the Hungarian Labour Fund concept initiated by Jobbik, which would have replaced 80 percent for those who had already lost their jobs. I am pleased that, in fact, all opposition parties were able to reach an agreement, and everyone with a different brand name, but this was the intention of replacement of around 80%. We have identified your budgetary resources for this, and I can indicate it now, if that is necessary. The fact is that in Europe the Hungarian government is the most narrowly dealing with those who have lost their jobs. I believe that a patriot economic policy would try to recreate the fading social safety net. In Hungary, the system is one of the most narrow in terms of 30-day, three-month benefits and the very low amount, at least the two would need to be increased. [[15.20]] But what is most harsh: this banker's government, because it cannot be called fairer, fell to its knees before the financial system and the banking system, which is literally unprecedented in Europe, and in the world, I cannot find such things. Let's see, in 2015, if my fellow Member Nacsa goes Google, he will find a pact with the EBRD on the website of the Government of Hungary in February 2015 where you have made a deal with the banking system. Google it. It's gonna be an interesting reading. You wrote it down, it's on the paper, even if it's digital, even if you don't take a single forint's burden on banks to settle people's situation, even if people are right. That's what you guys liked to do. There is no such government in Central Europe that has signed such a self-sacrifice pact. And let the numbers speak. My fellow Member, Nacsa, we had an argument this spring, if you recall, regarding the financial basis to be charged for the disease control, about who is being burdened with, and I said that it is possible to agree, on the basis of a public burden, on who should bear what burden. Parties, 50 percent, okay, we're up to it. I think the municipalities have been a little overwhelmed by their options, but this is going to be an eternal political debate between us until the end of the term, I see. However, in the case of multinationals, retail charges, including a few ten billion-dollar prizes, have been levied here. This large chain, typically with multi-layered backgrounds, is relatively easy to avoid by diversifying the portfolio; Hungarian companies typically pay as a military officer. But it's globalization, and you haven't slowed down this game in years, it's been an expected development. What's very harsh, and because I called you bankers' governments, is a special tax on banks. Perhaps my fellow Member Nacsa remembers because we had this debate together in the spring. A 55 billion dollar special tax came out on the banks' side, we all remember that. What's wrong with that? While people pay, parties pay, municipalities pay, entrepreneurs, banks receive a special tax of 55 billion, which they can write to zero in five years, up to the last cent of their tax due. Thus, they were granted a special tax by not paying only banks in the whole system, banks that managed to generate profits above HUF 600 billion, record profits throughout the Central European region, while operating one of Europe's most expensive retail banking packages. So the Hungarian population will pay the extra price for this. They offset the banking sector special tax and pass on the transaction fee as a whole. We are talking about over 200 billion items, fellow Members. You, the government called family-friendly, allow these financial institutions to be paid to the Hungarian people, they admit to passing on these fees. I understand it's hard to listen, but if it's a patriot economy, a patriot policy, it's part of protecting my citizens, my compatriots from those amazing international network overruns, let's call them, which are bound to reach citizens in a globalised world where they're not protected. And I claim that Hungary will not protect them. Moreover, after the banks did not pay anything, everyone paid, the banks did not pay anything in the epidemiological package, even through the Hungarian National Bank they received a HUF 1000 billion credit line with a 4 percent marzz, or HUF 40 billion free lunch. Everyone else is paying, my fellow Members, into the cash register of the epidemiological defense, and you are supporting the financial system of which I do not want its deterioration, I do not want its failure, there is a need for multinationals and banks in a healthy nation state and a healthy economy. In fact, I also say that from a consumer point of view, we should look at even among the common policies that should be taken over or developed at home in order to protect customers. But let us not call patriotism the economic policy that allows multi-companies to make their profits in the order of 1000 billion, the same multi-companies in Hungary, the top tax burden of less than 12 and a half percent in Hungary, the same tax rates in the Czech Republic are over 18 percent. Explain that to me. I don't think I can. Hungary's government, which has been so serene and self-destructive in economic policy, has been very few. I do not want my fellow Member to think that I would want to absolve the governments before 2010 because, no, I still had the same criticisms. But it's hard for you to say that, if possible, in many areas you have even made things worse. That is why I ask you to be much more modest, and at least by finding national minimums, we ask you to look for those who are so persuasive that you do not misplace these conversations. What I see is that what is on the paper before us is that the assets given to the foundations can no longer be controlled so much, I'm not saying this, and, Mr. Secretary, this is not a constitutional violation, so I quoted the law on national assets. I quote from a law, Mr. Secretary, which you have accepted and signed. If you think this is constitutionally offensive, I think you don't think so, but you may have misunderstood something, but I think it would be a big problem, but let's take a deep breath and assure us that we can guarantee control of the outsourced assets together with a well-defined package of laws. If not, the political debate that has developed between us, believe me, will get worse and worse by 2022. But you can also be sure that with regard to the assets saved, we will rest only if we see a full guarantee, control, and it is obvious that every deception must have its consequences. It doesn't matter whose government it was under, it doesn't matter what party man did it, sin doesn't have color. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Zoltán Balczó and Dr. László Keresztes applaud Lóránt.]]
u2020-09-22-176	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, a representative of DK. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-177	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for speaking to him correctly during the debate, and not in the closing moment, when we can no longer answer. Unfortunately, our agreement ends about here. On the one hand, I don't think it's good how you categorize civil society organisations: if Soros pays or supports it, it's a bad NGO if the government pays it, it's a good NGO. I think that's a bad attitude. If anyone is supporting you, private, private, civil society, it's a civil society organization, if it's supported by the government, it's not a civil society organisation, it's a fake civil society organization created by a government. The organization that you are giving them is not independent, and you may give them extra money or replacements, if you are in trouble, and this has been the case, and especially, which you appoint your board of trustees, as the example in question shows, for example, from your own friends, relatives and business partners. That's all, just not independence. This is a kind of power exercise technique where party interests are hidden in organizations otherwise run and created by public money. And as to who should be ashamed of themselves, I think that it should be ashamed of the person who brings to Parliament a very significant asset allocation of his own organization, and then instead of defending why this organization should give money, and not to other higher education institutions or other talent organizations, because there are some, there are also some who are not undersecretaries of state, and are not full of fidess, and they are not supposed to care for the right-wing spirit, and then they hide behind the backs of ten-year-old children. Well, I think you should be ashamed of that Secretary of State, that's what I can say. I am not ashamed to say that you could also give this money to genuine talent organizations that are otherwise party-neutral, instead of building your own spiritual culture. And it's not their fault or their children that this current system gives them only this opportunity to break out. There will be a system where you don't have to go to political organizations if you want to support your child's education. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: The tuition fee is in!]] Finally, I would like to say that it always feels good to be missed by Congressman Nacsa. I assure you, of course, I have followed your speech and I would like to respond to two things. Well, it's not worth it, I could have a laugh at you saying that you had a good time at Millenáris, which we have now learned was a terrible destruction before 2010, and since then everything is good, but I understand that this party line, that the sun didn't shine before 2010, obviously has to be said for Millenáris. So you went there as a disaster tourist when you were in high school, and we understand it's a hobby. On the other hand, I would like to say, and I would like to respond to this, that I believe that you have basically misunderstood one thing. I understand, of course, that they are extremely afraid of their accumulated wealth, who has, I don't know, you have those who have collected wealth; I also understand that they are afraid that after a change of government they will have to account for the last 10 years or then 12 years. I understand this fear. But that's how it's gonna be. The person who stole public money will be accountable because Peter Polt will not always be the Attorney General who will cover up your affairs professionally. And by the way, anyone who hasn't touched public money and committed a crime, but who has been a leader in breaking freedom, has been involved in destroying other people, and will suffer this shame forever. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-178	Thank you. I now give the floor to László László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-179	Thank you, Mr. President. I also thank the Secretary of State for his participation in the debate and thank the three pro-government Members who are still here during the legislative debate. It's definitely a positive and refreshing example compared to what we've seen here on the benches opposite us. [[15.30]] That's positive, so I'm glad the three of us are here, and then we can at least argue on merit, not just a closing word, and then it would have ended today. Moreover, the debate took an interesting turn, and we can say that Mr Dániel Z. Karpát's speech is now very difficult to relate to the subject of the item on the agenda, but I believe that this was relevant and an important response. Congressman Nacsa [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]] Here is the patriot economic policy... I wasn't criticizing the congressman, I was criticizing, let's say, housekeeping, but whatever, but I think that was a meaningful answer, by the way. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman Nacsa's resignation...
u2020-09-22-180	We're not criticizing housekeeping, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-181	Congressman Nacsa was talking about patriotic economic policy. This was very interesting, and he is accusing Jobbik and LMP of standing up or applauding Ferenc Gyurcsány, or making a similar accusation. I remember, Congressman, when we were discussing the project of the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, I said that this is a thousand billion-dollar project, which cannot in any way be justified by the Hungarian national interests. And you said, in a reply, why, well, back in the day, the M6 highway and tunnels were built practically on a plain. That's what he said the left did. With this, Ferenc Gyurcsány was placed on a platform quickly, if we are talking about the M6 motorway, but it is very, very important that the patriot economic policy, this Budapest-Belgrád railway project, costs a thousand billion HUF of Hungarian taxpayers' money, comes from a Chinese loan. It is quite clear that this Chinese expansion, we can say, is about serving colonial efforts and commercial interests, is entirely against the particular patriot economic policy that would otherwise be needed. If we are based on your calculations, then only this year and next year you spend so much money on this project, I say, on a project that serves Chinese great power interests, of which 175 thousand new jobs could have been created in the midst of an extremely deep economic and social crisis. I do not wish to go into this any longer, but I would ask Congressman Nacsa to make statements with sufficient self-criticism, such as patriot economic policy and accuse Jobbik or LMP of standing behind Ferenc Gyurcsány. Returning and thanking the Secretary of State for answering some of my questions, I would like to ask you about the former National Casino Officers' Club in Pécs, I do not think that the few questions I asked were contradictory, so indeed, both the University of Pécs and the City of Pécs would have liked to have had access to the building several times over the past decade and a half. You said, Mr. Secretary, that there are resources for reconstruction tasks and work. I would like to ask you how much it will cost to renovate this building, what source is available for this reconstruction. I think that if either Pécs County City or the University of Pécs asked for this building, they also had a concept of what source and how they could obtain the amount of money that could be used to renovate this building in accordance with the appropriate historical standards. I think we can agree that the municipality of a county-righted city or a university should not be put at a disadvantage in terms of access to such resources, so they must compete with the same odds. I was interested to hear that the Secretary of State, as head of the Board of Governors, said that the University of Pécs will play a role here, and that, by some cooperation, the teachers of the university will also be involved in the tasks. Then I don't understand why the university shouldn't have this property, why the state doesn't provide state property for the resources needed for the renovation, and then why not use this truly unworthy building for these noble purposes, in an unworthy state for decades, in such a way that it would remain practically the property of the state, in the possession of the state, in the hands of the University of Pécs. I don't understand why this couldn't have happened in the last decades. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-22-182	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Sigismund Brown Paul, a representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond briefly to the comments made by Congressman Arato, and I am sorry that he has left the room again. However, I would like to thank Mr Keresztes, briefly, for the usual constructive attitude, even though we do not agree on certain issues, but it is certainly a good thing that there are also such debates in this House, even though it is often uncomfortable for you to remind you that Gyurcsány is indeed your coalition partner. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, is regularly separated from the rest of the left, but, gentlemen, in most places you started in a coalition, and mayors and deputy mayors in a joint venture, so together they make up the left, as strange as it is for you, but you must do something self-esteem, and unfortunately these are sad facts. So you, together with DK and other parties, make up the left which constantly criticizes the government and the left which, in the period before 2010, could not be called patriot economic policy, which has been discussed here. But I wanted to answer Mr Arato most recently, but I didn't do it in detail, because he still escaped from the room and then came back and threatened me from time to time. I wanted to tell him to stop for a while, because we are not afraid and we are not afraid, and somehow finish what Ferenc Gyurcsány has done in the past period, that he is threatening us. I do not threaten Mr Arató, but I do not tolerate him threatening me or threatening my fellow Members, nor do we tolerate him personally thinking about the Secretary of State or the Member or about us, so we reject the tone and the threat that Mr Arató has shown over the past period, probably on the advice of the party leadership; this is their new strategy, as I consider it. Civil society organisations should then be mentioned in a few sentences, because the Gyurcsány Party is constantly hiding behind civil society organisations. Hungary has been repeatedly accused of the lack of freedom of civil society organisations. I, too, am a Member of the Council of Europe delegation and we are conducting this debate on a regular basis. We always tell my fellow Members that there are tens of thousands of civil society organisations in Hungary, and that the same 10-20-30-40 civil society organisations are always running to Brussels or Strasbourg and that there is a dictatorship here, and I do not know what horrors are happening in Hungary. Interestingly, these NGOs are that, that they are not supported or part of this network by the Soros Foundation Network, and these are some NGOs, which, in our view, cannot be called civil society organisations, because they clearly belong to an interest, an economic interest, which calls for any threat to civil society organisations in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-22-184	Thank you. I give the floor to Nacha Lawrence, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I find it outrageous, too. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Gergely Arató's threat, but before going out, Dániel Z. Carpathian, I would like to respond quickly to him, as he said he accused us of destroying all past, says the party whose representative spit in his shoes wanted to list Jews here in Parliament, and otherwise he supports a candidate for Judaism. You are the ones who try to wipe out this past here in Parliament every day. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't be so afraid. Calm down.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Gergely Arató's threat, but before going out, Dániel Z. Carpathian, I would like to respond quickly to him, as he said he accused us of destroying all past, says the party whose representative spit in his shoes wanted to list Jews here in Parliament, and otherwise he supports a candidate for Judaism. You are the ones who try to wipe out this past here in Parliament every day (Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't be so afraid! Calm down! So they can stomp on the left. I understand, Congressman, that this is very bad for you, and we remind you of this (Daniel Z. Karpat intervenes) But these are still the same party that did these things, which burned an EU flag, which, by the way, intimidated gypsy people, which spit in shoes on the Danube coast, and which wanted to list Jewish representatives, they are all you, Congressman. I understand that you don't like this, discuss it with your party president, who is campaigning every day for a candidate for judapest, who has also been launched by the LMP. Congressman, I would like to say that I understand that you personally, I believe, may be difficult, I believe that you are personally disturbed by your coalition with Ferenc Gyurcsány, and I do not want to interfere with the internal flow of information in the LMP, but speak to your party president. Máté Kanász-Nagy said that Ferenc Gyurcsány is preparing for joint governance with the LMP. That's your policy. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] Don't deny it, please. I believe that you feel bad that you are the leader of this party, and this is what you are faced with, that the party president is speaking on your behalf, but this is the political situation in Hungary: you are supporting it, you are running with your logo for the candidate for Judaism in Szerencs, and you are preparing for joint governance with Ferenc Gyurcsány. I would say to Dániel Z. Kárpát that what he says is not true: more and more jobs of added value are being created in Hungary, not at the end of the production chain, but we are constantly coming up and up (Dániel Z. Kárpát: Talk to me about the bank tax. And once the congressman tells us to serve international interests and networks [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] And once the congressman tells us to serve international interests and networks (Dániel Z. Karpát: That's right!) On the other day, they say that Hungary's international scope of movement is narrowing, that no one will welcome the Hungarian Prime Minister anymore, that we will not be taken into account in the European Union and otherwise in the various international organisations. It's the typical hat, no cap case. In the past six months, we have heard many of these cases, that you say that one day, and the other day, the exact opposite, because in March there weren't enough ventilators, why there are so many ventilators in May, and again in September, why there are so few ventilators. We're not looking for consistency policy on the left, that's obvious. What is scary is that Gergely Arató has now kicked not only the 10-14-year-old talented students, but also the decent NGOs in Hungary. Tens of thousands of civil society organisations apply to the National Cooperation Fund each year. [[15.40]] He claims that each one of them is an organization dependent on the government, which I do not know, because the government finances part of its operation or its professional programmes. I think it is a good practice for the government to vote for the civil society sector in Hungary every year and for the Parliament to vote for rising resources in the budget year after year. True, we don't think the same thing about civil society. We think of the 61 thousand civil society organisations that do value-making social work, and he thinks of the 60-120 civil society organisations that are actually agency organisations, foreign-funded agency organisations. And I would like to reject your claim that if anyone was to receive money from the Hungarian government, it would immediately be some sort of Janichar training or some kind of government-wide organization. It is very right that valuable NGOs such as a folklore circle, such as a sports club, such as a youth scouting team or a tour association, or even the traditionalists, are supported by the Hungarian government through the National Cooperation Fund. That's what they used to call the National Civil Fund. And it is very interesting that Gergely Arató asks us to do so, after, of course, what my colleague, Mr Barna Zsigmond referred to, the threat of the Gyurcsány Party, and with whom you jointly wish to govern, according to your president, threatens right-wing intellectuals, right-wing prominent personalities, as well as people involved in art or even any public activity. I think it's in our mutual interest that this world doesn't come back where it happens. But now it seems that this left-wing government programme by 2022: to make right-wing intellectuals runaway. In this he wishes to start with Jobbik, LMP, Dialogue, MSZP and Gyurcsány, adding Momentum. I think that this time should not return in Hungary. We'll work to make sure it doesn't. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-22-186	Thank you. I respectfully ask Congressman Nacha... [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] No, you've already withdrawn it, thank you very much. I would like to point out to my fellow Members the title of our agenda. So far, as Mr Group leader has indicated, I have authorised the debate, but I respectfully ask that someone else would like to make use of the opportunity to speak, if possible, to the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] If I do not see any further speakers, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the national secretary of state if you want... [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-22-187	Thank you very, very, very much. Firstly, I would like to thank you for the support and non-supportive but constructive contributions made in the debate. I think both are important. Let's not talk about destructive, customary comments this time. I think I've answered every question I've asked you before. There are two things I would like to tell you. Here was a general criticism of education policy, which is also the subject of the present proposal, linked to the issue of talent management. I would like to stress, however, that at the moment there is HUF 2240 billion in the Hungarian budget for education, which is almost 800 billion more than in 2010, by 90 billion more than last year. Pedagogist wages are not yet where we want to go, but we have achieved a 50% wage increase, plus a 10% wage increase in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, while in the pre-2010 government we have seen that the source has been withdrawn from education and that teachers' wages have also fallen. With regard to higher education, there is also a 40% increase in the state normative of universities without a change of model, and the replacement of the PPP scheme has also facilitated the operation of universities by tens of billions forints, and has contributed to the creation of quality higher education through management autonomy. So I think that the reality of education is a little different from that of certain left-wing politicians. So once again, I would like to stress that children and their parents, 10-14 years of age, who, say, take part in natural science training and talent management programmes, are accused of receiving ideological and party policy training, this is an intellectual perversion that I believe we should consider unacceptable even in the case of Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party. So it's some level of excessive lying that I really don't know what to do with. Thank you for not joining this choir by any other opposition, left-wing speaker, and I hope that this will remain unheard of... [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Balázs, do you have such a left-wing counter? You could pull strigulas...]] No, but it's a good idea. Thank you very much. On the matter of Pécs; the Member asked me back only for the sake of clarity. Obviously, planning and public procurement for planning can start after this, so I cannot give you an exact amount. The reason I can't give you an exact amount is because this is how an investment is planned, prepared and conducted. The resources are available, so you do not need to receive any additional State resources for Mathias Corvinus College, the resources are available for this renovation. So in this sense, the situation is not the same as in the case of the other two institutions, we have been trying to resolve this issue for decades. I do not understand, Mr President, that you, who are indeed a Member of Parliament in this area, are not pleased that this issue is not a political one, but a programme of educational, talented and historic reconstruction. I understand that as a lobbyist at the University of Pécs and as a lobbyist in a city of Pécs County, I think it's a perfectly natural thing to do. I can assure you that the University of Pécs has also received significant development resources in recent years, and that the state's operating normative has also increased. If you're lobbying to include Pécs in model-shifting institutions, I can also understand that that would also be a rational step for you, but this is an independent case. In the case of a city with the right of Pécs county, there is a multi-annual government programme, called the "Modern Cities" programme. There is a fixed amount of support and supported projects. The Pécs chose these projects that the government supports. I think it's very clear. I do not understand what the problem is and why it is not possible to rejoice together beyond party policy logic that this situation is resolved, and it is not a political function, it is not a business function, it is not an economic function, it is a public function that will be added to the downtown of Pécs. I should like to point out, Mr President, that similar projects are likely to be launched in several cities with county rights and even in cities across borders. I think that this is right, because, by the way, the issue of Hungarian talent in the Carpathian Basin is a matter of national strategy, so that we can provide the most talented young people with an accelerated track. In addition to constantly increasing the quality of public education and higher education, and also providing the most talented with an acceleration course, we bring in international contacts, international scholarships and foreign professors, which we are unfortunately a small country through a system of institutions, we have little resources to do. So either this institutional system goes to Pécs, and then university students from Pécs University, high school students from Pécs, Pécs public life, the most talented students from Pécs primary schools are also involved in this educational program, and it serves to build all Pécs in economic, cultural and other terms, or it doesn't happen, and then nothing happens in Pécs in this sense, besides everything I've told you is happening. I think that we are both interested in achieving this. So I would like to thank you once again for the debate, and I would like to continue to ask you, because I think it has become quite clear from the debate that it is important steps in terms of national strategy that can serve the cause of Hungarian culture and the Hungarian nation, so please continue to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2020-09-22-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Our City, Pécs 23." I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-22-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take advantage of you while you're here, Mr. Secretary. All I would like to say is that in 2015 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán came to Pécs and made a 7-8 point promise about the Modern Cities programme, one of which was realized. So a number of concrete, timely promises have been made, one of which has been implemented, and one in relation to a university investment and development. By the way, Minister of State, that Pécs and Baranya, referred to me as lobbyist and parliamentary representative of the University of Pécs, did not really find this offensive, and I continue my tradition of bringing the current questions of my city, Pécs and the region of Pécs, Baranya County, to the National Assembly here after the agenda. I think it is important that, now that the autumn session begins, I should also talk about what fundamental challenges this region is facing, and I should also say what are the most important tasks that I have set out for myself as the opposition Member of Pécs in this autumn session. It is quite clear that governments have come and gone, as well as Members of Parliament, but for some reason all governments have betrayed Pécs and Baranya, all the representatives who have carried out activities in different pro-government colours have betrayed them, and therefore Pécs, as the seat of a relatively well-placed county around the regime change, can be said to be one of the strongest regional centers, has now become the center of a crisis region. Unfortunately, we can also see this deep-flying in the statistics. It is quite clear that the county of Baranya is now the last country in terms of per capita industrial production. Of the large rural regional centres, Pécs's economy is far and far the weakest. Specifically, the performance of the Pécs economy can be compared with half the size of Szombathely, which is quite tragic. This economic deep flight is also reflected in the tragic data of emigration. In the last 20 years, the number of Pécs county seats has decreased by 20,000, and in the last 9 years there have been 14 thousand losses, so 14 thousand people have been forced to leave the city for economic reasons. By the way, this population loss is very, very typical of other cities in the county, such as Komlo, and very, very true. Just like the socialist before, after the fall of the Balliberal City Council, Pécs is in an extremely difficult situation after a ten-year-old Fidesz rule. The city's debt is nearly 20 billion, there is very, very little room for manoeuvre, and by the way, if we mention issues such as maintaining the most important public services, we see quite astonishing numbers. The most important public service in the supply area of the Pécs-based company is the 15-year horizon, and the water utility system is missing in addition to the current resources for HUF 20 billion. Unfortunately, the experience of the last year has also been extremely bad, and the situation in the city has been difficult. The fears that, where government leadership fails, people in cities can expect different criminal measures, and this has also been achieved in Pécs, have been confirmed. We have seen that the government has made a series of various austerity measures that have struck our city in order. In today's debate, I have already mentioned that they want to withdraw two billion HUF from the University of Pécs, which will also have extremely tragic economic effects, beyond the losses related to the direct function of the university. We can say that other projects are also running, projects on which Pécs has quite firmly stated that they will not be tolerated a few kilometres from the city's borders. We can also say that the pro-government politicians of the city and Mr.Péter Hoppál are not doing what he was given a mandate from the Pécs, he does not represent the interests of the people of Pécs and his region in the Parliament, but he is doing something else, on the other hand, as Governor Viktor Orbán tries to push the government's will through Pécs. It is quite clear that this cannot be kept; Péter Hoppál must go in 2022 at the latest, but in the meantime, Pécs cannot wait, we must work with anyone who wishes and can work for the city and county. I would therefore like to create a advice, a collaborative platform that will guide these actors in the same direction, and we will try to do everything we can to achieve results on some important issues that will determine the city's life and the city's future before 2022. Basically, in order to maintain the city's public transport, we would like to carry out a lobbying activity, using our existing international relations in the same way, we would like to launch a meaningful investment promotion activity. In order to protect the city's environment and health, we want to ensure that the will of the people living in and around the city is not built in the neighbourhood and that uranium mines are not reopened by those who still cherish such amazing plans. I can say that in the autumn session, too, the people of Pécs, Komlón and Baranya [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] continue to count on my work, I will continue to represent the city's interests very diligently and hard as a representative of the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2020-09-22-190	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, for how long? to be addressed after the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-09-22-191	Mr President, Dear House, We also had a long debate today in this Parliament on the willingness of the government itself to favour its own citizens, its compatriots, and we see that, although, apart from a fellow Member, and other than the leading president or notaries, the Chamber is in fact empty, so that the majority of the governing parties will no longer be entitled to answer this question after the agenda, on the one hand, the protocol is also a power, and on the other hand, any interested witnesses of later times must know that there are still reasonable people in the Hungarian Parliament who demand absolutely clear solutions to the real problems of real people. In the fidesz world of the various Soros conspiracies and people hiding behind the curtains, we know that the first idea is not necessarily that people are being evicted from their homes without accommodation, that in Hungary there is a moratorium on credit repayment, to whom it applies, to whom it does not apply, but it contains a hidden ticking bomb for everyone, and it is not certain that it is in the front of the Fidesz world that in Hungary, in the event of an epidemiological emergency, it could be said, in the middle of the worst quarantine days, that, through various excesses, the smallest pensions and 33 percent and 50 percent of the lowest actions could be subject to bans. For this reason Jobbik has developed a proposal for an immediate eviction moratorium, a moratorium on credit repayment, but without all and hidden costs, thirdly the full decapitation of the executive abuses already mentioned, in Hungarian, to prevent similar 33 percent and 50 percent executioner bans on the minimum pension, minimum wage and basic livelihood income. The proposal for a triple shield could provide perfect security for those who are threatened by the horror of losing home or by a credit trap they cannot break out of. But there is a problem in Hungary that affects all our countrymen, and here, ladies, gentlemen, family members, myself, fellow Members, we all pay the price, and this is the amazingly damaging process that Hungary's government, which has been reigning since 2010, has been allowing the exchange rate of the forint to continue to deteriorate, and because of the continuous weakening of the forints, we are subject to continuing to pay an unjustified and invisible tax by purchasing imported products. We use the example of a smartphone in my hand to illustrate this. [[Showing his smartphone:]] For a normal HUF 300 exchange rate, this device could be about 40-50 thousand forints cheaper than for today's HUF exchange rate. But in many worlds, this is still a luxury item, unfortunately, because, in addition to the humiliatingly low wage level in Hungary, many people must very much think that they will invest in such a multi-year edition or not. At the same time, everyone has to buy clothes, and due to the very bad forint price, let's say, in the case of an H&M piece, there can be a difference of 3-4 thousand forints between the price resulting from the normal forint price and the current price. But a lot of people can't afford to shop in Westend, the fancy shops, and they can see that even the Chinese import product and the well-selected product are more expensive than they should because import costs have to be paid. I would very much like to live in a world where all goods are Hungarian when they are placed in the supermarket or on the market, and you can find home from everything, except for exotic fruits and the kinds of goods where this is conceptually excluded. [[16.00]] But what I can see is that a man who tries to collect Hungarian goods from the product scope in any multinational company's business, whether it be, say, vegetables or fruit, is doomed to a serious adventure. In many cases, we run into the import product without a Hungarian substitute. The cash register of every domestic family can be burdened with thousands or even one or two thousand forints per month, only the unjustified expenses spent on basic items, which result from a weak forint exchange rate. Therefore, the Hungarian National Bank and, indirectly, the government should have intervened long ago, but the interests of the multinational companies were again stronger in the eyes of the Viktor Orbáns, so they chose to serve foreign networks again instead of the interests of Hungarian citizens. We're gonna fight this. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Bence of Turda and Dr. László the Crusade applaud.]]
u2020-09-22-192	Thank you. Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, notary of the National Assembly, applied for a post-meeting speech: the Radetzky barracks: is Fidesz ruining our new cultural heritage? ! It's an address. Here you go, notary.
u2020-09-22-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Indeed, I would like to brief Parliament on the fate of the Radetzky barracks in Bem Square in Buda. This 180-year-old building of outstanding historic importance, which is part of our historical cultural heritage, has experienced a very dramatic fate in recent years, and seems to be under threat of devastation by now, as Fidesz-close investors, capitalists, and not even Fidesz-close oligarchs, but partly government members' interests are planning a luxury investment with unknown content that will destroy this unique historical heritage on the one hand, and on the other hand it will carry the lives of the inhabitants of the Water City, the inner Buda at a level that is completely unacceptable to us. We, the green people of Buda and the citizens of Buda, are therefore protesting the investment. We have to agree with all the beautiful words with which the Fidesz government office defended the monument which was still under attack a few years ago, still condemned to be demolished, even though it was planned to be destroyed by a large investor. Then it was written that the historical fate, the aesthetic and architectural value represented by the Radetzky barracks, must in any case mean that it can be protected from destruction by maintaining historic protection. In fact, as part of the Buda panorama, as part of the Danube panorama, UNESCO is part of its world heritage, and it is no coincidence that the international organization is very concerned about its fate. However, we see that there has been some change in the government's position, because despite the beautiful words they always say about the protection of national culture, the protection of national heritage, the protection of traditions, their historic protection has been removed from the Radetzky barracks two years ago. Gergely Gulyás did so as a minister in his decree, who, by the way, betrayed his own electorate, the narrowest Patria with this pull by Gergely Gulyás. In August this year, under the cover of the cucumber season, a new regulation declared the project to destroy the Radetzky barracks as a priority investment for the national economy, which means that it is practically exempt from all heritage protection, environmental protection rules and social inclusion, as well as from the institutions of social interest reconciliation. You're the II. Gergely Őrsi also learned from the press and the Hungarian Gazette that this decision had been made. What has changed over the past few years, why could it be that in 2016, this important element of our national cultural heritage was still heavily protected by the Fidesz people, and now they are blowing away and evading to the large investors? Well, the investor's identity. Formerly foreign investors, and now Fidesz-near oligarchs and government members, government commissioner, personally György Wáberer, and his business partner Sándor Scheer's interests are the ones that want to carry out this devastating luxury project. What, then, do we, citizens of Buda, we, the green ones of Buda? On the one hand, we follow the conditions to which we insist on the whole project and which were set out by Mayor Gergely Őrsi. These concern transparency and the questioning of the local people, the enforcement of their interests, and, of course, the enforcement of the protection of monuments. We will also start collecting signatures in order not to destroy the Radetzky barracks, but to make it a national memorial place, and I, as a representative of the Dialogue, have today submitted an amendment to the priority investment law, which in any case gives municipalities the right to agree, i.e. veto, on similar investments. We believe that it is the local citizens and the municipalities that represent them who should not, in any way, be avoided in the case of such an investment, especially if such destruction, such destruction, is involved. In short, in the case of the Radetzky barracks, we, the greens of Buda, have our position: nothing about us without us. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2020-09-22-194	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day is now closed.
