u2020-07-13-0	[[With the exception of a few Members in the room, the people stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the 4th extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be winners of Vinnai and notaries of Believing Dezső for my help. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Fidesz Group is under Article 35 of the Parliamentary Act. On 13 and 14 July 2020, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated an extraordinary meeting. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce the death of our fellow Member Ferenc Koncz. Ferenc Koncz graduated from a teaching college and obtained a degree in mathematics and physics, which taught for a year in Budapest and then at the Zsigmond Szerencsi Primary School. His political career began in 1990, in Szerencs, where he was a municipal representative until 2010, for two years he was elected deputy mayor of the city, and in 2010 he became mayor of the city of Szerencs, which served for eight years. In 1998, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county's regional list entered the Parliament in the colors of Fidesz, after which he was a Member of Parliament for ten years, and in 2018 he was re-elected as a Member of Parliament. In his parliamentary work, he was first a member of the Committee on Youth and Sports, the Committee on the Environment and Sustainable Development, and in the latter he served as Chairman of several subcommittees. In 2001 he received the Pro Urbe Prize of Tokaj, the honorary citizen of several settlements, including Rozsnyó in the Highlands. The mayor of the year was awarded a medal in 2016 and a year later the Zemplén Association of the City of Zemplén acknowledged its successful activities in the area of economic, social, cultural and intellectual life of the region. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased. Photos and flowers were placed on Ferenc Koncz's table.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Timea Szabó applied for a pre-meeting speech, on behalf of the Dialogue. I give you the floor.
u2020-07-13-1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Viktor Orbán and my fellow Members, when you feel that it is enough; when the point comes when Viktor Orbán, István Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros or Sándor Csányi can say that I have enough money now, I have stolen enough, I will not take what belongs to another person anymore. When is the moment when fidesz buddies don't want to cut down trees anymore, they don't want to cement every green area, they don't want to force hundreds of thousands of people to rest? Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, gas mechanic and banker, the Orczy Park, József nádor tér, the free beaches and protected reeds in Balaton, the Old Lake of Tata and the plans to destroy Lake Fertő, are now laid eyes on the island of Óbuda-Hayógyári to cut down thousands of trees, to destroy the resting places of tens of thousands of families, so that they can steal, steal and steal again. The only difference is that they're not planning a hotel now, but a luxurious home park with 1,400 apartments. It all started a year ago when Viktor Orbán suddenly removed the ancient Hadrian's Palace in the island of Shipyard from the UNESCO World Heritage Proposal. To my question at the time, the government replied that this was simply because they wanted to restore the remains of the palace in a time-honored way. However, archaeologists, including the director of the Aquincum Museum, who I personally asked about this, say that it is not possible to restore the palace to a period of time, since it had so many different construction periods that it was not possible to choose one. There's only one never existed here, and it's a Disney-style building. When this came out, there was another government answer: yeah, it wasn't Hadrian's Palace, it was a kayak-kenu center. This was at least as believable, because, on the one hand, why build a kayak-kenu center on the island of Shipyard, when there is a much more suitable Roman coast with its many decades of rowing history, on the other hand, and where Viktor Orbán's lie finally fell, who believes that because of a HUF 600 million kayak-kenu centre they want to raise a mobile barrier around the island for HUF 20 billion. A 300-page government study recently published on the Pest County Government Office reveals exactly this: a 20-billion-dollar mobile barrier around the island, the cutting of thousands of trees, the destruction of protected animals and plants, and, not to mention, after a possible flood, the increase in the water level of the Danube, according to a study ordered by the government, is such a threat to the impact of the expansion of the mobile dam. district and the population of Újpest. And all because of a kayak-kenu center? Well, we don't believe that. You've seen us as birds many times, but you've managed to get us to the top. This kayak-kenu centre, promoted by Orbán, is nothing more than a Trojan horse, in which the luxurious NER riders dreamed themselves a 1,400-accommodated yacht-port residential park. What a coincidence that the southern part of the island is said to have already been included in the rust zones with a 5-percent discount apartment tax! What a coincidence that Balázs Fürjes, Viktor Orbán's Secretary of State for Budapest, said at a conference about ten days ago that the government will appoint the first instant rust zones in September at the latest, in the order of 100 hectars! And what a coincidence is that István Tiborcz was talking in his interview last week about his interest in rust zones! Well, I haven't had that many accidents in a long time, fellow Members. But I have some bad news for you: the island of Shipyard belongs to us, to families, to dogs, to those who want to rest and not to the real estate speculators of Viktor Orbán. We're gonna protect your shipyards, just like we protected the Roman coast from the same money-hungry buddies. [[13.10]] You did not think, my fellow Members, that we would stand by and watch a thousand trees being cut down on the island of Shipyard to destroy the lungs of Budapest, did you, just because you now need a yacht port along with your luxury dwellings? ! Fortunately, neither is the III. district government and the capital will not permit the cutting of any tree, and we will be there every day with the locals and civilians, more and more of us, and we will protect our island from Viktor Orbán's sick kleptomania. The island of Shipyard is ours, not Viktor Orbán's. Thank you.
u2020-07-13-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2020-07-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Protecting the environment and combating climate change is a key objective for the government. I think this is a matter that goes beyond political logic, because we all want clean water, cleaner air, more living climate, more green space, and so what you said in your speech about us, it just doesn't stand the test of reality. Let me give you a few facts in general first. We have launched a climate protection action plan to eliminate illegal landfills, to allow the redemption of glass and plastic bottles, to ban disposable plastics, to protect rivers from incoming waste, to require multinationals to operate with environmentally friendly technology, to support the renewable energy production of small and medium-sized enterprises by HUF 32 billion, to plant ten trees after each newborn, so that by 2030 we will achieve an increase in forest areas to the existing ratio in the period prior to Trianon. Over the next ten years, we will increase the capacity of solar power plants and support the emergence of cheap electric cars. On 3 July the Parliament also adopted a law on climate protection. Hungary has undertaken to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. This law was not supported by you. [[Bence of Turdai: We submitted it!]] Congratulations on your submission, Congressman, you should have voted for it. So, it should have been supported, not only in words, but also in action, to support the preservation of green surfaces and climate protection. Let me just say a few more things. Between 2010-19, 82 new protected sites of national importance were created, with a total of more than 4,000 hectares. Thanks to habitat reconstruction programmes, the state of our natural values will improve at 100,000 hectares in the coming years. Government plans for the recultivation of rust zones may not reach your support, but we also believe that it is important that we spent 120 billion forints on environmental remediation between 2010 and 18. It is clear, I think, from the multitude of these figures and figures, that the right hand side always wants to enrich the country and the right hand government in all cases. The case of Óbuda and the island of Shipyard is no exception. We are far from committed to ensuring that the population is able to take possession of, and use, orderly, reliable and even more accessible green spaces, and we must protect the island of Shipyard in the spirit of combating climate change. For example, floods are becoming more frequent, and therefore the state of the green areas continues to deteriorate. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] So we think that it is necessary to create residential and resting areas that meet the needs of the people here at a high level and which are attractive to everyone, with a rich culture, which retains the natural features to a large extent. Our Budapest policy is based on this. We have invested more than HUF 2100 billion in construction and green land development over the last ten years. If I have any more time, I'd like to tell you what the left was planning on doing in Obuda. I don't know, you remember your ally's project called Project Dream Island. It included a hotel, a conference centre, a casino, a construction project marked by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party. An investment of EUR and a half billion would have been built in the south-west of the Shipyard Island, with an area of 32 hectares. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] the first one of the APV Inc. higher rated and then privatised at a lower amount, and the majority of MSZP-SZDSZ gave the Budapest General Assembly the green light of this investment and even qualified it as a key government investment. When the Orbán government came to power in 2010, it was necessary to buy back the land and save the southern part of the Shipyard Island from investors. [[Szabó Timea: Are the thousand trees cut right or not?]] So the island of Shipyard must not be protected from the right-wing government, but from you and your allies. [[Bence Tordai and Timea Szabó intervene.]] So I would like to ask you, if you have an honest intention in this regard, and not only is it driven by political gain, to stand by the project and support those green area developments. [[Szabó Timea: Are the trees cut down or not?]] which take place on the island of Shipyard. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-4	Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, also came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2020-07-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are here today because the management of the European Union is proposing a credit programme for the Member States of the European Union in order to counter the economic crisis caused by the Crown Virus. The fact is, we believe that this loan package is in itself the credit package of the right-wing status quo of the European Union, a loan package that will comply with Strabag, Audi, which is always in the consortium with the Hungarian partner, and will not meet the Hungarian people. The fact is that under the Crown Virus, we have seen that European solidarity was a fairy tale by the Member States, by the Member States of the Centre, because Germany's right-wing government has mostly dealt with the fact that Eastern European agricultural seasonal workers cannot come in, or that caregivers in Eastern Europe are unable to come in, rather than dealing with why these people earn much less in Eastern Europe than they do in Germany. [[13.20]] The fact is that there is an apparent contrast between the leadership of the European Union and the Orbán government. This is what this proposal for a resolution is about, in which things have been put that are intended to prevent the opposition from supporting it. The fact is that, at the same time, we know that this is just an act, you are not enemies of the right-wing leadership of the European Union, but of its members. We know precisely that the procedures under Article 7 will not control the Hungarian government's policy at any level, as the procedures under Article 7 are already underway. And we also know exactly after we look at this telenovela; it's about Fidesz being a member of the People's Party, which, if I understand correctly, ends with the KDNP being a member, Fidesz is somehow suspended, that Brussels and your relationship are good, and as long as you share sovereignty with the Audi and BMW, there will be no change in that. The fact is, this loan package represents a very large amount of money. On this money, the Prime Minister and other right-wing politicians have repeatedly said that if they are spent on investment, this will be good for the Hungarian economy. Let us not talk about the fact that there has been a government in Hungary that wanted to spend foreign loans on investments, and it did not necessarily end well. Let's talk about investing not only in concrete and steel, but also investing in Hungarian people, spending this money on human investment, improving Hungarian education, Hungarian health care and the situation that Hungarian countrymen working for the state are currently earning almost the worst amount in Hungary. The fact is that the Hungarian people, whose wages could be increased by developing human resources, would not take profits out of the country. By having Strabag build it, they might take the profits out of the country. The German plan, the essence of this package of loans, is to spend this amount in such a way that profits return to Germany, this money would not remain in Hungary, and the fact that you will literally agree to this shows that you are interested in national sovereignty when it is possible to post a poster, and not when it is billions. I also have an appropriate Orbán quote, which I think shades what's going on with this thousands of billion-dollar package. The Prime Minister says that if I were a German, I would consider it carefully to warn us of solidarity when workers in a factory in Germany receive five times as much salary as the Hungarian worker in the same factory in Hungary for the same work. It is shameful for the Germans to talk about solidarity as long as it remains so. This loan package is going to keep it that way, and it's not going to change. There will be no reduction in the periphery of the centre within Europe, and the direct aim of this package of loans is to maintain it. This is the credit package of the status quo, which was invented by Viktor Orbán and his political allies of the People's Party in order not to have to make the necessary structural changes and changes to the European Union. The fact is that, despite your playing the veto in this room, we know that they will agree in the end, we know that this will happen precisely because your interest coincides with the interests of German capital, and that it is not for the wages of Hungarian people to grow, but for the wages of those with whom they control the country in divided sovereignty. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The European Council is at a huge stake, as is the resolution of the Hungarian Parliament, and we would therefore do well to have a serious and professional debate on this issue. We urge you, also left-wing Members, to represent the national interest, the Hungarian interest in this debate. Honourable Congressman, In the history of the European Union, it has never been possible for the Community to build up such a large debt, and it has never been the case to take on a common debt. Therefore, the importance of this moment, of this situation, has long been seen. We are familiar with the framework of the package of proposals, which you have talked about a lot. The Commission and the Council propose that the European Union should borrow EUR 750 billion. This would be distributed in the form of grants of EUR 500 billion, and EUR 250 billion would be available to Member States in the form of loans. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, At the same time, allow me to draw attention to the need for a complete consensus on the adoption of the budget, so all the political debates that we are having in this Parliament are of particular importance. So all countries, all Heads of State and Government, need their consent. Let me also draw attention to the fact that Hungary has had problems with the coronal virus epidemic, but the countries of southern Europe are in a much worse situation than we are. We have also discussed the crisis management practices of the European Union many times here, in the Hungarian Parliament. Several times, we have seen the Union fail in crisis and crisis situations. It can also be said that in a crisis, the Union loses its Union character. Honourable Congressman, We can see that the operation of economies in the southern countries is in serious danger, and therefore, as a member of the solidarity of the European Union, we are, of course, willing to support and accept a way of crisis management which is different from our own, but we cannot do this without conditions for the benefit of the Hungarian people, for the sake of the Hungarian nation. Honourable Member, because it is, after all, the situation in this proposal is that common debt must be repaid together to the Member States of the European Union. A fair package is therefore needed. We can support a package that does not give the richer Member States more money than the poorer ones. We can stand next to a package that focuses on growth and re-launching the economy, and which is unpolitical, does not want to put the budget in the service of false ideologies. In other words, we think that there should be no disadvantage for those countries that have stood up for, for example, the control of illegal migration, in a way that Hungary, our country, has done. We cannot accept that the government's position, which is supported by the majority of Hungarian voters, is to be seen as a matter of rule of law in political matters. Honourable Congressman, Such politically motivated conditions cannot be linked to the package and are conditional upon its adoption. The European Left is always threatening those who do not like it by imposing financial sanctions on their behaviour. But we've seen it, and we've seen it over the years, it's a nasty dead end. If they link ideological aspects to the spending of resources, they will be enveloped badly spent, not for the purposes of the economy, but for the realisation of some strange ideology. Therefore, no political conditions can be linked to economic decisions and economic agreements. Honourable Congressman, At last, the European Union should be concerned with relaunching the economy and not exerting political pressure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-8	It is now up to Congressman Gergely Arató on behalf of DK.
u2020-07-13-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, In his usual radio statement, the Prime Minister encouraged the Hungarians to take a vacation at Lake Balaton. The Hungarian basi only forgot that the vacation in Balaton is now a luxury for the majority of Hungarian citizens. The Hungarian sea will become an increasingly NER sea, a playground for the aristocracy of the Orbán system. And this process is accelerating. In May, the Bahart General Assembly, with the votes of the majority owner Hungarian Tourism Agency, decided to privatise the four ports owned by the company, two campsites, hotels and sailing ports with more than a billion HUF revenue. The only way that municipalities could have recovered their territory or at least the ports was to separate the valuable areas from it and sell them, as was the case in Csopak. That's why the municipality didn't accept the offer. [[13.30]] And this is not a unique case, a kind voter sends me such cases almost every day, more and more scandalous stories. Some of these are: the possible punishment is calculated into the price, so think those who are destroying Tihany. The luxury villas are built in a row, the hillside is broken down, and the authorities tolerate it, and they only impose false penalties. The old, traditional Tihany village image is becoming more and more a thing of the past, the chasing forks are being built for the aristocracy. Next to the building of the Siófok observatory, they set up a five-storey apartment building with the permission of the government office, regardless of the fact that the professionals and the civilians concerned about the lake have drawn attention to the fact that they are destroying the accuracy of the Balaton weather report. And I could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and And it's no coincidence that this harsh construction fever, the almost mindless overdevelopment and overload of Lake Balaton. The NER riders are pouring public money into Balaton's investments. The elite with the names Tiborcz, Mészáros, Garancsi and Csányi have stolen the Hungarian sea for the past five years. According to the Reply Online collection, there are 42 projects at Lake Balaton today that are related to this group of owners, they own two thirds of the resources for hotel development and port construction, half the total funding and HUF 63.5 billion are used at Lake Balaton. But there is also a luxury hotel where even a small amount of EU money is stolen, and it is no coincidence that, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, the government is very much afraid, I might say, that he is terrified that he can only receive strict control of EU funds. And while the elite is buying the Balaton with public money, Hungarian citizens have less and less access to the lake. According to the press, 20 of the 40 municipalities with lake beaches now do not provide any free beaches at all, free access to Lake Balaton. Last year, the government specifically provided resources for the development of beaches, but most of the newly renovated beaches were then declared to be paid by the municipalities, citing the increase in comfort. In the meantime, private beaches can also be guessed who they are linked to with their thousands of HUF entry prices, hundreds of HUF soft drinks and other prices, with huge amounts that are priceless to an average Hungarian family. According to the Democratic Coalition, Balaton can't have a few billionaires' toys. That is why we suggested that it be mandatory to provide a free beach in all Balaton settlements. And before you yell populism and socialism, I will tell you that this is a requirement, among other things, in Spain, Italy or even in several Member States of the United States. The financial situation of the municipalities must not be improved by smearing holiday homes, but by the government not taking away legitimate revenues from the municipalities. And for the NER oligarchs, there will be a moment of truth. They will not only have to account for the wasted EU and domestic resources, but also for the destruction of the environment, landscape, nature and Lake Balaton. The legitimately confiscated wealth will be the source of the rescue and restoration of Lake Balaton. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-10	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-07-13-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I didn't think you'd bring that question here, given the history. Well, wasn't it your party president or his company who leased a resort in Balatonesöd for 2.5 million to rent it for exactly the same amount of money? Well, you didn't have to pay for anything there. And then you're gonna bring up how some businesses are supposed to put their hands on real estate after such a history? Well, I'm sorry, that's totally unfair. But the case of Lake Balaton is more important than just getting stuck with this. I'm glad you're bringing this up, because Lake Balaton is a national value, so it's worth talking about where we are at the beginning of the season or at the end of the season. I would like to ensure that domestic tourism also plays a major role in government tourism development policy, with great emphasis on it. What we want is for Hungarian citizens to receive an increasingly high-quality service, hopefully at affordable prices, and we consider this to be an important aspect even if the government is not responsible for the price issue, because it is most dependent on market conditions. Your main statement was about how Hungarians could afford to go to Lake Balaton and spend their holidays there. So let's talk numbers. In 2010, 35% of Hungarians could afford a one-week vacation, 35%, and now nearly 60 percent. [[Gergely Arató: The Secretary of State doesn't believe that.]] Approaching elsewhere, the number of guest nights spent by domestic tourists was 9,9 million, today 15.6 million. If we look at the figures for Lake Balaton alone, in 2010, there were 2.6 million guest nights, which grew to 4 million, honourable Member. So if you claim that less and less people can take vacations on Lake Balaton or in the country, then this statement will stay out of reality. On the other hand, there are more and more emerging target areas in the country outside Lake Balaton. It is not an incidental circumstance that the epidemic has caused extreme damage to the tourism sector. In April, traffic decreased by 97%. That is why the contribution to the development of tourism had to be released, so the government paused the employer's contribution, and that is why a tourism force majeure fund was established. I would particularly like to mention the Kisfaludy programme, which is under intense attack; I do not think it is right. But why not? It is a program that started years ago and supports small, medium and large accommodations. It is no exaggeration to say that this is the largest tourism development programme in Hungary in recent decades. I understand that accommodation is targeted, but it is still the case that the government has provided or is providing support for the development of 670 rural pensiones, and much of the development has already been completed. In recent months, support for private accommodation has been raised several times; if I recall the debate correctly, it was raised by the Jobbik faction. The government also supports these private accommodations. The relevant programme started only a month ago, but claims have already been submitted for HUF 43 billion. I know you have a professional proposal for beaches to be free. Well, in this connection, I would like to inform you that 40 free beaches have been renewed in the country, and 30 of them are on Lake Balaton, and 24 more will be renewed this year. So they also get a lot of emphasis. They do not need to be made free, but they are free now, and they are renewed. The Balaton development also includes the renewal of the Balaton shipping. In the past, Bahart was a local government owned and the development was cancelled. If you don't believe it, then go and see the non-rarely fifty-year-old ships. The shuttles aren't in good condition either, so you know very well that there's a need for action here. With regard to ports, I would like to say that the municipalities will receive them for free use for 25 years, and several municipalities have already been agreed. If you are, by the way, sensitive to social aspects, because you are referring to this, then I would like to draw your attention to the Erzsébet camps. You didn't even think about it during your administration. [[Gergely Harvesto: That wasn't his name!]] Since 2012, more than half a million children have been on vacation for free or at a very special price, and this only meant 130 thousand children last year, and perhaps it is not an issue that the large camp in Zanka and Fonyódliget will be renewed. So this government does not privatise these resorts, but completely renews them, which is a big difference. That way, people can get to the Lake Balaton, and they will get there, who, by their own means, wouldn't be able to do that. So I'm asking you not to judge these developments by coming from the government, but by serving the country's interests and serving it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-13-12	It is now up to Congressman Tamás Harangozó on behalf of the MSZP.
u2020-07-13-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In the present state of Hungarian democracy, he desperately needs control. To make it possible to ask for democratic standards to be followed. At present, the European Union is one of its weaknesses in having difficulty enforcing its own values and principles. The European Union should therefore be entrusted with the necessary means to continuously encourage its members to represent the values and to comply with the principles. [[13.40]] It is a contradiction if we expect the Union to get the governments of the Member States to follow the rules, but we are reluctant to give this authorisation which may undermine our sovereignty. What's up? - you could say, Uncle Besenyő Pista, because the sentences quoted above do not come from György Soros, not even from the MSZP programme, but from the Fidesz European Parliament's programme, which is still in force today. Yes, dear House, the situation is so absurd. The EU funds for Hungary and the funds that can be drawn from the reconstruction package must be protected, but, as it stands, most of all from you. What is it really about? You are now asking for Parliament's confirmation that the representative of the government can make demands for the adoption of the EU budget and the reconstruction package. They want to blackmail the European Community by adopting the package to address the crisis caused by the coronal virus only if the 7th Article procedure against the Hungarian Government is terminated and the use of EU funds is not linked to the rule of law criteria. It's a betrayal of their own commitments at every point. With this gamble, however, they harm not only the community of the Union and our allies, but also all Hungarian citizens, all Hungarian people. It is a big question what will happen after you force this resolution through Parliament. Will they really be able to take the whole country to the wall? And what if the leaders of the other countries suddenly get fed up with your rogue methods and decide that the reconstruction package will only benefit the Member States of the euro area, and the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy will simply fall away from at least HUF 5000 billion? In fact, the most important question is what is this hysterical, respected fellow Members of Parliament. You are terrified of the control of the rule of law. Why? Well, you don't think everything's all right in Hungary? Independent institutions are strong, brakes and counterweights work, media pluralism flourishes, and there is no sign of corruption. If that's true, then, come on, tell me what they're afraid of. Only half in the sun, you know, the one with the butter on his head. It's just that you're a little kid with a history of compliance with the rules, who knows exactly how you've committed a crime against them. Dear House, It seems, then, that you can do anything for power and money. You do not believe in European values for a long time, and you are not even interested in Hungary's national interests. It's just for their own good, their power, and money, and money, and money, which is either yours without control, or nobody gets any of it. On the other hand, we continue to believe that Europe is one of the best places in the world because, learning from the tragedies of the past, it pays attention to ensuring that political repression and corruption do not prevail. Just as ten years ago, even you and I consider this essential. Therefore, in our amending proposal, we require the Government to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we expect the Union to impose sanctions on the government, not on the people, but on the government. To this end, the joint resources of the country should be allocated directly to the municipalities, Hungarian entrepreneurs, civilians and citizens. We are still members of this community, in which there is a debate about how, for example, our country will receive immediate financial assistance of nearly HUF 5000 billion, so that the economy that has fallen due to the epidemic can get started as soon as possible. But it doesn't look like this from the weekend house in the shadow of the stadium. The only question is whether this money will be distributed by the boss or not. It is terrifying to look at you, fellow Members, what you have become. For our part, if we adopt our amending proposals, we will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision, but if our amendments are voted out today at the TAB, we will not participate in the vote either. Some things you don't give your name to anymore. Thank you for listening.
u2020-07-13-14	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2020-07-13-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The past was a very instructive moment, because you act as if you do not know the reality in which we live, as if you do not know the framework of the Union and do not know the concept of Hungarian sovereignty. I understand very well that you are as socialized as socialists, of course, that you always need a union, you need a Red Army that guarantees order. Perhaps we should have one of these now, so that your will prevails in a minority, as it has been for forty years, but today is a different reality. When we joined the Union, we joined a vibrant, vibrant economic community on an economic basis, precisely because we gave up our economic framework for several years, we gave up customs duties, we gave up VAT revenues, we opened up our markets, paying a million-dollar unemployment for this in the 1990s. Everything we've given up, we want to stop there. What you are pushing for is the infringement procedure in 2010 that we inherited from you, which was no problem until then, and then the liberal left-wing mainstream started strangling Hungary, but we got out of the debt trap. What you would have liked, what the liberal left-wing mainstream forced us to open up Hungary to migrants in the EU, you failed to do so, you failed to stop the kind of resistance that we have. You didn't like the fact that we disturbed the multinational companies, that we taxed them, that we involved them in public burdens, that we introduced the institution for reducing the rent, which, to this day, has left hundreds of billions and thousands of billions in the pockets of the population. I understand that this is a failing policy for you, and I also understand why you are keeping me where you are at the moment in terms of election results. This is a very painful point. Then came the series of migration infringement procedures, where we were faced with the fact that the institutions of the Union, including the Commission, Parliament, are extending the scope of the legislation, are trying to force us to do things that we have never undertaken. There will be lawsuits, disputes, but it is also apparent from the state of migration that, in some cases, the right to be condemned or not clearly to our advantage does not provide sufficient support for the Commission and Parliament to force their will on us. And then you draw this rule of law card to make sure that something does happen. They found one of these in the Union... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] Then your friends of principle, it doesn't matter how we put it, if you don't feel comfortable with them, don't object on their behalf. Basically, the situation was that they found such a rule of law story, which, by the way, they couldn't get to the bottom of, because they should have closed this whole story a long time ago, they just levitate it. It is constantly said in the EP that Hungary must continue to maintain this state for an uncertain period of time, and you are applauding it. You are pleased that this country is vulnerable if this country is weak. Technically, when we arrive at the fact that it is not written anywhere in the Union documents to link the payment of the EU funds to a so-called fluid, elusive rule of law criterion, to which we are otherwise entitled under the Treaty, and we have payments in this amount, then you are outraged that someone in the Hungarian Parliament dares to say so today. They always miss the fact that the government is not instructed by Parliament. Now that can happen. Why aren't they clapping? Parliament can declare that our rights have been ignored several times in yellow flat procedures and in other cases, but we now draw attention to the fact that, when Hungary has a veto right in a case where the Union cannot expand further, and it cannot bring about a rule of law criterion without such a framework, along which the Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy, could be strangled, then you, rubbing it against Brussels, regard this as outrageous. The outrageous thing is that you are taking action against Hungarian interests and have been doing this together with your predecessors for decades, and you do not realize that the majority of Hungarian voters are not asking for this. They'll meet the four percent results and all, and I don't want to see the future, but this road, believe me, will lead you to it, and they will experience it, but I think they deserve their fate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-16	On behalf of Jobbik, I now give the floor to Congressman Balázs Ander.
u2020-07-13-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can say on behalf of many people that we wouldn't have shed a single tear if Gábor Kaleta, the ex-Hungarian ambassador from Peru, hadn't been brought home, but rotted in a merciless prison in Lima. I think he would have gone to his rightful place, to the bottom of the prison hierarchy, where this human being could hardly have experienced what it was like to be more powerful than him, to be at his mercy, and to feel the violence on his own skin. [[13.50]] There are pedophiles at the bottom of the prison hierarchy, who are hated from the heart even by common criminals. But the truth is that this terrible aberration is not related to party color; these often smooth psychopaths can infiltrate many places. But how they relate to them is the cause of the power at all times. Will they be punished as hard as possible; will they be punished as hard as possible, or will they get away with such an outrageous innuendo as it is now? Four years ago, Jobbik suggested that sentences be tightened, and then the pro-government majority wiped it out. Now we're asking you to do this again, along a double course. One would, yes, tighten up the sentence so that no aberrant pedophile could escape these horrific crimes with some suspension. And the other direction, our resolution proposal, is to create a public pedophile register, and these perpetrators will live their lives together with the terrible crime they committed, and as some kind of leper stamp, let it burn on them. Let the total humiliation burn on them; let the contempt burn on them, so that everyone knows who they are, what they have done, where they live, and everyone knows what kind of monster lives near them. In view of this, they are also talking about the public register and the tightening up of penalties on the pro-government side of the country. Come on, we won't resent it if it's not done under our logo, but please, we demand that it be done, and if it's not possible to castrate sex offenders, we ask you very much not to castrate at least this bill in accordance with their good habits. Our support will be stronger, the harder this regulation will be. You guys killed the housing savings banks in one day. They'll rewrite it if they have to, they'll rewrite the Fundamental Law. You, if you have to, if you want to, could hit these horrible criminals. In any case, in ten years, in the hands of a two-thirds majority of Parliament, they could have done so already. Because it is not fair that the aberrated ex-magnet collecting pictures of the rape and torture of infants and young children should be punished by 28 forints for each of these images; then, in the end, he has enough skin on his face to appeal, saying that the suspended sentence and the 540,000 forints punishment he received were too strict. My fellow Member Gergely Kálló received such a fine to correct the fidesz posters, and opposition honkers were even more punished. Not for 1900 images, where unnamed sexual predators cripple and destroy children in the meanest, cruelest manner, a few-year-old! There can be no excuse for Kaleta to just look at these pictures, enjoy them, and actively not participate in these tortures, because sick demand creates the supply of the terrible meat market for the maiming of small children. It is not right for the protection of victims to be far behind the protection of the rights of the bestial perpetrators and the aberrants enjoying terrible acts! Nor is it fair that the whole stomach-swallowing story was tried to hide, so that, for some reason, even the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Parliament knew about the very protected case of Kaleta. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How can screening work? How can the most faithful, the Attorney General...
u2020-07-13-18	Congressman...
u2020-07-13-19	... led by an organization in Hungary, my fellow members of the Government?
u2020-07-13-20	... his time is up!
u2020-07-13-21	We don't think there should be any mercy, not to any pedophiles, not to those close to NER. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-13-22	Congressman, we have listened to your speech for 5 minutes and 20 seconds, and although I have been moved to intervene several times, I did not want to get into an ambiguous situation with you, but I would like to note for the future that the style of the speech does not need to be adapted to the level of moralism that you have whipped, presumed or true by you on a given subject. So it could have been performed in a slightly higher and fairer style. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. [[Ander Balázs: Thank you for your patience.]]
u2020-07-13-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, we must agree for every purpose, which is to prevent, complicate, and punish such acts. So we agree with the goal. Indeed, the tone, how we can get there in the international, domestic legal framework to achieve the maximum that can be achieved from such situations, will be a very big task. Mr Máté Kocsis also announced that during the autumn we will come up with a package of proposals that are not just the Btk. It will cover child protection as a complex whole. These proposals, which he mentioned in his speech, his previous backgrounds, his discussions at committee level, group searches, ministry work, so we need to practically aggregate that kind of knowledge and put together a single package to make sure that it is not just a facade measure; that it should not just be that we have tightened up Btk. again, and that the prosecution has applied it as well as the court could. It is necessary to assess in particular the classification of cases by age of children, or in these cases, according to the content of the recordings, to give the possibility of differentiation; so that the storage of larger amounts of recordings is a more prominent figure, because there is no distinction here either. After all, before this Internet world came crashing down on us, legislation could not have dealt with this topic in this depth, because unfortunately, the practice created the set of problems that law should follow. And we can promise that in the course of the review, we will find a professional balance so that we can narrow down the singleness, judicial discretion, in matters that are most extreme, and perhaps not be able to leave the field without imprisonment in such cases. I think the individual case itself is reprehensible, and I think that there is nothing worth saying about it that is not reprehensible, and it would not point in the direction that we have to learn lessons from it, and from this overall, we need to get to a regulation that I say or not, or, if it does happen, it should not really be worth it, and even if it is being followed by a sanction for the rest of our lives. It can be seen that the current Parliament has acted on similar matters, for example, those who have been convicted of pedophilia, who have had such cases, were voted by this Parliament precisely, and I hope that the majority in favour of the government were also weighted in this case, so that children under the age of 18 could not be dealt with in their entire life by a person who was convicted of such a matter. Overall, it can be concluded that we must proceed along this approach. What I can promise you is that in the material that comes before this House, we will practically go to the wall, or to the wall of the future decisions of the Strasbourg Court, because in these matters, the prisoners will be able to go to the Court of Luxembourg, because there is also an EU directive that deals with this issue. Precisely for such crimes, the minimum amount of one year was defined as a punishment for those who hold or store such a picture, instead of the Hungarian Btk. three years since 2001, during the first Orbán government, this was introduced into the Btk. [[14.00]] And what I can promise you is that just as in 2013, we didn't soften on the Btk., and ever since we had to, we have tightened up or we can think about the other package, the conditional release, so we take in all the social needs, and we look forward to all the good proposals that can be made on this issue. What we need to do is to show that there is the toughest criminal law in this country, with at least the same emphasis on the protection of children and their protection within the rule of law, or perhaps the limits of it, because we are once again bumping into this issue in the same way in these cases. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2020-07-13-24	It is now up to KDNP's group leader, Mr István Simicskó. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-25	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by expressing my condolences on behalf of the KDNP faction for our friend Ferenc Koncz's family. God rest your soul, my dear friend. Ladies and gentlemen, The coronal virus epidemic has put Europe's countries at an extraordinary challenge. On 27 May this year, the European Commission presented its so-called recovery plan, which represents the EU budget for the next seven years. This will cover around EUR 1100 billion in expenditure for the EU's Member States. However, we are also looking at a step that will be decided this weekend on Friday and Saturday, as the European Union intends to take a EUR 750 billion loan, which will indeed determine the future of all the Member States in a material way, and I must even say that the future of our children and even our grandchildren in a financial and economic sense, since the repayment will start from 2028 onwards, and this period will run until 2058, so this is a long-term borrowing, which obviously carries a number of risks. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that every crisis is also an opportunity; it is an opportunity for medicine and healing. Over the past ten years, the Hungarian government has successfully fought many dangers and crises. Let me just say one sentence about the bad economic policy of the left-wing governments before 2010, the debt of over one million Hungarian families, and I am thinking of foreign exchange creditors in particular. But let me mention the crises caused by nature, including the Danube flood or the red sludge disaster or migration in 2010 This was an exemplary case for Europe, and it was the last time that a coronal virus outbreak started at the beginning of this year, which really put all countries to a serious test. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me say that, obviously, Hungary, the Hungarian Government, which has undergone these trials and has been able to remedy the significant economic problems of the past period, has been able to raise the Hungarian economy from the financial crisis with its financial policy responsible, the Hungarian Government has reduced both public debt and budget deficits to a significant extent, so we can say with a calm, perhaps modest, that we can advise the decision-makers of the European Union and impose certain conditions. And we would certainly have three conditions, and KDNP supports this to a great extent, and these three conditions, of course, lay down principles that are important for all of us, especially if we are responsible for the future of Hungary. However, before I tell you the three conditions, I would obviously also like to say that we are in solidarity with those European Union Member States who have handled the coronal virus epidemic worse and are in much greater trouble, and even with some southern countries, there has been a near bankruptcy. So the KDNP supports the three conditions that we hope the Prime Minister will say during the EU negotiations on the weekend, namely to ensure a fair distribution of credit, the structure of the credit package itself, so that the poorer countries should not get less than the richer countries, so that a certain degree of proportionality can be achieved in this way. At the same time, we consider it very important, and it may not be overlooked what the EU Member States will spend on these loans. It is very important that the EU Member States spend it on re-launching the economy, and it is very important that this is in Hungary's interest to start economic growth and to spend resources and loans on creating jobs. And let me tell you a third point: this is policy-free or ideology-free, because we do not want the Union to impose conditions on support, the payment of loans, which will blackmail Hungary once again, for example, to change our immigration policy. This is unacceptable to us, so we will support the government with every effort to get through effective negotiations this weekend. Of course, let me also say a sentence that it is in Hungary's interest that the European economy should be on a growth path, and we would like the Hungarian Government to be able to fight for these resources, because it is in Hungary's interest, and we would also like the left to support this parliamentary resolution proposal that we have tabled. I trust that this will also be a confession from our fellow Members, and tomorrow it will be decided who sees and who supports the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-26	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2020-07-13-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, The last 12 years of the European Union have also been the most difficult period of European institutionalised cooperation. In its own historical reflection, the EU itself considers the period after 2010 as a period of stagnation and uncertainty. It is not difficult to see why: we were hit by three crises, we were hit by the 2008-2009 economic crisis, in 2015 by a migration crisis, in 2020 by the health crisis caused by the corona virus and its economic crisis. Unfortunately, the leadership of the European elite, the EU, has not been able to deal effectively with any of the crises, so these crises have been combined and combined. In such a situation, the difficulties previously hidden in the years of prosperity become clear, the east-west, north-south and other conflicts are larger and more visible than ever before. We are in a position to say about ourselves: Hungary is performing better than the European Union as a whole. We have produced one of the best economic growth data, prevented the mass arrival of illegal immigrants in our country, and thanks to the cooperation of Hungarian people and government, the best possible scenario of disease management has been achieved so far, we have managed to save countless lives. In this situation, we must evaluate the crisis management package of the European Union and, in general, the debates on the future of the Union. We believe that the European Union must finally find its own way, solve these crises that make the continent's economy sick, and at the same time make substantive debates impossible. This task is also addressed by the multiannual financial framework and the EU instrument for the so-called future generations. In the meantime, it seems that these instruments to help crisis management in their present form are merely repeating old mistakes, whipping up barren disputes that have been known to the point of boredom. The instruments would typically be distributed politically, disproportionately and most unfairly among EU Member States. In fact, linking EU budgetary resources to the rule of law criterion is nothing more than institutionalising and unpredictable political pressure. If we look at the history of the European Union's rule of law criticisms against Hungary, we see inappropriate elements. For example, the contents of the Hungarian textbooks or the constitutional protection of the family as a value were asked for by reference to the principles of the rule of law. There is no reason to think that this practice, disguised as a state-of-law dispute, would not continue with financial means already available as discipline. It is unfair to draw funds from countries that have responsibility within the EU for the benefit of countries that make economic policy mistakes. Hungary has made good use of the funds received so far from the European Union, which was acknowledged by the German Chancellor, Mrs Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, in the next multi-annual budget ratios, it would provide less resources to Hungary, which is otherwise well-farmed. Finally, despite the fact that Hungary's Government considers lending to be a fundamentally avoidable solution, we are still understanding the creation of the so-called Next Generation loan fund, because although Hungary does not need credit, that is to say, a source that should be paid back to future generations, we understand that there are countries whose economies would collapse without such assistance. I would say to opposition representatives that this is called genuine solidarity, which other countries often call on us, but they practice little. The Government of Hungary believes that only the cooperation of sovereign nations based on mutual respect can lead Europe out of critical times. The European elite, which has repeatedly mistreated crises and sharpened the political contradictions of the continent, can no longer be trusted in substance. We need new guidelines, and we believe that these guidelines can be provided by national parliaments, which are depositaries of national sovereignty. Therefore, the government expressly welcomes the fact that the Hungarian Parliament has decided to give this guidance to the government. We agree with these guidelines and undertake to represent the national interest at the EU negotiating table in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2020-07-13-28	The final speaker before the agenda will be Ms Gabriella Selmeczi. I give you the floor.
u2020-07-13-29	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has successfully won the first stage of protection against the Crown Virus. The absence of a mass epidemic is due to three things: decisions taken in time, cooperation and discipline, and excellent professionals to whom we thank for their sacrifice. Allow me to mention the words of Ledia Lazeri, President of the WHO of the World Health Organization, Head of the Hungarian Office, who said that the number of diseases and deaths remained low in Hungary thanks to coordinated measures taken in time. The whole world noticed this and learned a lot from Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, However, as long as there is no vaccine, the virus remains with us, the threat has not passed, so it is necessary to maintain the epidemiological emergency and maintain the alert. Although the number of active diseases in Hungary is constantly decreasing, worrying data are coming from both the world and Europe. In Serbia, the number of infected has increased fourfold in recent weeks, but it is also growing in Romania and Slovenia. In Croatia, it ran up ten times in two weeks, and the situation in Ukraine and Romania is bad enough. What is happening in Europe also affects us, because foreigners are coming to us, as Hungary's favourite tourist destination and Hungarians are also travelling, so there is a chance that the virus will be introduced into Hungary again. The health, life and safety of Hungarian people remain the most important for us, so we must do everything we can to prevent the return of the virus. As we have already seen, people carry out a measure when they agree to see its meaning. In the first phase of protection against the coronal virus, we have already seen what restrictive measures mean, and we know how to adapt to these restrictions. Thus, on the basis of experience, we can now give an informed opinion. It is therefore useful for everyone to express their views on the measures taken so far, on disease management, on the re-launch of the economy. For this reason, the Government has resumed its national consultation. The Fidesz fraction agrees that people should be asked what measures should remain in place, what new ones should be introduced and what people think about economic crisis management. The important question is also how the Hungarians feel about the second Soros plan, about how the American speculator would flood Europe with eternal bonds that would result in debt slavery, which even our grandchildren and children would pay. These are all serious questions. We are therefore asking people to fill in and send back the national consultation sheets. We need points of agreement, even if the left is constantly attacking this institution. Let us recall that there was no national consultation that didn't get into it, and there was even a representative who ripped up the consultation sheet on families here in Parliament, and others openly said that they saw Hungary's future in migrants. And the pro-immigration Soros organisations have asked people to send back their response envelopes empty. National consultation is also necessary because the left does not participate in the national unit and tries to attack all successful measures. They're attacking national consultations right now because they're afraid of people's opinions. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike them, we believe that the eight national consultations so far have proved to be a good tool, and it has proved to be a good tool to ask the Hungarian electorate what they think about these issues. And this will also help the government and us politicians, the Parliament, to adapt decisions to the Hungarian people's ideas. It is only in this way that we can act as effectively as possible against the possible second wave and its devastating health and economic dangers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-30	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-07-13-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to report that there is an extremely high interest in national consultation; it is still very far from the deadline for dispatch, but many have already expressed their views. Based on this morning's summaries, 396 thousand people filled out the questionnaire. This proves that we are dealing with current, important issues that affect all of our lives, on which we should give an opinion. Hungary is one of the best, most effective defence countries, and we would like to keep it that way. Because the epidemic has not passed, and even in some countries it is breaking records, we must do so. The virus must be kept outside our borders, even because it is present in 188 countries of the world, which means nearly 13 million infected. Accordingly, the Government has decided on entry restrictions on the basis of proposals from the operational tribe. The States are classified in three categories and, on this basis, restrict the border crossing from there. It's gonna be red, yellow and green. These classifications are determined by the conditions of infection in the respective countries and by their risk to Hungary. In the case of a green category, the level of contamination and risk are low, so access can be accepted. The yellow category is those countries where the situation is less serious and those in red where it is serious. Hungarian citizens from yellow or red countries must undergo a health check at the border and take a two-week quarantine. There is only an exception if two of the previous five days are tested negative, with a time difference of at least 48 hours. In the case of yellow-marked countries, one red-marked country requires two negative tests to allow someone to leave quarantine. It is a very important circumstance that non-Hungarian citizens will not enter from a red-marked country. These classifications will be reviewed weekly and may be modified by the national chief of staff. The government has therefore taken decisions, in particular, on border crossings. The first question in this consultation is unusual in that it is possible to choose from a number of possible response measures. The consultation will thus give a clear picture of the measures most supported by the Hungarians, which is why we encourage everyone to give their views. Dear House, We cannot ignore the fact that the opposition is torpedoing the consultation over and over again. If you could bet on it in a betting office, you couldn't win too much money because you do it on a regular basis and do it in different ways. We're getting word that they're taking questionnaires out of mailboxes, cutting off personal data in other places, and not knowing what they're doing to them. Momentum, which calls itself a new generation, sketches obscene content on the arches, while there are serious question marks about how Ákos Hadházy deals with personal data and observes the laws at all. For our part, we do not understand why left-wing parties want to prevent Hungarians from expressing their views on the epidemic and the fight against the epidemic. From the looks of it, no party on the left is an exception. Tell me what is wrong with every family having the opportunity to give an opinion on the protective measures that affect their lives and which they had to comply with, especially when we know that we cannot completely rule out that the plague will be knocking heavily again in the fall. If you can't add anything to the defense alliance, at least don't interfere with the dialogue. By the way, I think that any attack on the left like this is another reason for everyone to give their opinion. Thank you to everyone who did it, and to whoever will. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.20]]
u2020-07-13-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-07-13-33	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Varju, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik.
u2020-07-13-34	Dear House, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr. Winner Vinnai to explain this.
u2020-07-13-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 204. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that, with effect from 24 June 2020, the mandate of Mr Perényi Sigismund Peter, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, was terminated with immediate effect. Budapest, 3 July 2020 Sincerely: János Áder
u2020-07-13-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our extraordinary meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President for the duration of the meeting. As button-press votes also take place during the adoption of the agenda, there will be a presence check before it is possible to verify the functionality of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present: 141; away: 57.]] Dear Parliament, Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of Group, initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures to discuss in an exceptional procedure the EU's economic measures on the economic effects of the coronal virus H/11282. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Mr Fraction Manager has initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate will take place on 14 July 2020, the decision on the summary amendment proposal will take place on 14 July 2020 and the final vote will also take place on 14 July 2020. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept H/11282. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The motion was adopted by the House by 123 votes to 13, with no abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:24 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the amendment of certain laws relating to short-term accommodation expenditure T/11328. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate will take place as item 2 of the agenda on 14 July 2020 and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will also take place on 14 July 2020. Dear Parliament, Now we have a decision to make again. I'm asking you, do you accept T-11328? The rapporteur, together with his proposal for an amendment to the agenda, submitted a proposal for an exceptional procedure. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 124 votes in favour, 12 against and 1 abstention. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:26 p.m. today. Dear House, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that, in the light of our recent decisions, decisions be taken at the earliest time on tomorrow's meeting at 2:30 p.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please also vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear House, I'm ordering a five-minute technical break. (Sunning: 14.26 14.32) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Dezső Believer)
u2020-07-13-37	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you and ask you to take your seats so that we can continue our work. I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 2:32 p.m., and we're moving on to immediate questioning. Mr. Péter Jakab, leader of the Jobbik faction, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" .. Your Honour, Chief of Staff.. Due to the urgent absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for Prime Minister to be present in the Chamber.
u2020-07-13-38	I'll wait a few more months.
u2020-07-13-39	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Prime Minister will have to reply at the third line next meeting. MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask Mr László György Lukács to accept the person of the response or to wait for the Minister to be present.
u2020-07-13-40	I'd like to wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-41	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question with the title "Green, Yellow, Red." I can also say what I just said, honourable Member, and ask you to wait for the Minister to answer. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I'll tell you.]] He's gonna tell me now. Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári is entitled to answer. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday, Minister Gulyás made an announcement about the tightening of the country's borders. For all of us, it is important that people are as safe as possible in Hungary, and it is obvious that it is understandable to everyone what is red, which is the countries with the code yellow and green. Although I would like to make a detour here, that in the M1 News and on the Facebook page of M1 Turkey was still able to be classified in the green category. Obviously, it is cynical to ask what 90 billion is spent on, because we can see that neither cartography nor the interpretation of the Gazette has been achieved. But what is really important, honourable Secretary of State, and what is important about these matters, is the question of testing. On the question of testing, it is pretty clear that you expect Hungarian citizens from the yellow and red categories who return home to get out of quarantine to carry out tests. In this connection, the first question clearly arises: in what way or where can the test be initiated? The second question is: does the current system, such as the general medical system or ambulances, have the capacity to do so, as far as we know, or will hospitals do such tests? Regarding the tests: if it is about hospitals, then, Mr. Secretary of State, there is a Chief Medical Circular that prohibits the carrying out of so-called PCR tests in hospitals, i.e. the testing necessary to identify the presence of the virus, as we know that there is. It would be good for you to remove this doubt, because if that is true, then this means that the Hungarian citizens returning to Hungary are in one of the most important places largely forbidden to test, and they will not be able to do their own things. So what we need to clarify is, is there such a prohibition? If there is, when will they stop? Where do you have the tests done? Does the health system currently have the capacity for this? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-13-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-44	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You mentioned with one half sentence how important it is to control the virus, and you are doing everything you can to ensure that Hungary can defend itself effectively against the virus. You could have said that at the group meeting, honourable Member, there, among the left-wing parties. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman, the KDNP, right?]] when it was about supporting the proposal to extend the emergency after 15 days. Because if the most important thing for you, in fact, was that Hungary could effectively defend itself and react quickly, it would have been voted in favour. But that wasn't the most important thing for you. And even now, if the most important thing were to be prepared and everyone could defend themselves against the second wave, then people would not be instigated against the national consultation, they would not say that they should bring these national consultation sheets into different offices and places, but that they would say that there should be a national consensus in this, and that everyone should speak out their opinions, and that together we should defend ourselves, whether each individual with hand hygiene, handwashing, lip masks and others, against the virus, and obviously also the whole institutional system, social institutions and everyone else in their own way. So don't say with a loose half-phrase that you've done everything you can to prevent the fight against the virus, here in Parliament, because a Member with his vote can help or prevent it, and you've hindered it, and you've also done so in the national consultation, which is an important phase in the defence against the second wave. As far as testing is concerned, honourable Member, since the outbreak began, the WHO has said that Hungary has been testing very effectively, because we are specifically testing those who are at higher risk of viral infection. The WHO recommends that each positive test be subjected to about ten negative tests, because this test is targeted. In Hungary there are 30, so we are testing much more widely than WHO regulations. So far, hundreds or thousands of tests have been carried out on a daily basis. This will, of course, continue to happen later. This has a schedule designed by the doctor, according to which the tests have been carried out so far. He was a member of the GPs, part of the county's infecting specialist, and part of the ambulance service. It has been established when this is necessary and the latter have been involved in implementation. That's how we'll do it in the future. Last week, the WHO point recognised the professionality and effectiveness of Hungarian defence. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.40]]
u2020-07-13-46	Dear Secretary of State, If we are already at obstruction, it is worth thinking back and referring to the fact that at the time Gergely Gulyás thought that everyone who is in the same room could infect each other, that was the right defense. In fact, it was the Chief Officer who said that we didn't have to wear a mask, and it was Minister Kásler who said that it was interesting how he has changed now that we don't have to test it, and we don't need tests to eliminate patients from society. And yet something has changed, and it seems that everyone who comes home wants to be tested. Otherwise, you are doing the right thing, because the possibility of these introduced diseases must be prevented. However, it must be stated, and you must answer, Mr Secretary of State, at what price it will be, for example, after 1 August, the test that you want to have paid to Hungarian citizens after 1 August, with the citizens who contributed with their money, with their taxes, to the defense, who will maintain health care, and you will now make this portion of health pay for them so that when they come home from their earned freedom, they can pay separately for the tests that you have brought in from public money to tons of China. Where is he, Mr Secretary of State, the dignity and fairness of this matter? How much will the Hungarian citizens have to pay for testing from 1 August? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-13-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-48	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let us also make it clear: in Hungary, you have paid for health care, and the left wanted to introduce it in Hungary. [[Noise, uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] In fact, he did, with a visit fee and a hospital allowance. Honourable Congressman, We wouldn't be talking about testing, because if your preferred side were on the wheel today, patients arriving at the hospital wouldn't be tested with a thermometer in the pre-triage, but I would ask them for a visit fee first, and then they would measure their body temperature with a thermometer. This difference is what you dreamed of and introduced [[Uproar and clarity, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including Zoltán Balczó: Who? Me?]] , between paying healthcare introduced in Hungary, between your left-wing block and our period. Honourable Congressman, So far, 295 561 tests have been carried out, and now I've looked at it, and you can see it on the Koronavirus.gov.hu page. This could be followed day by day by day by day, the description of who is being tested and how, and when, was also here, honourable Member. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: How much do you have to pay? The president's ringing the bell.]] You've been alarmed by a lot of things, this is your latest alarm, but it's gonna turn out to be as untrue as your fake video turned out to be completely untrue. Thank you very much. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-49	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who is responsible for the rescue that ends with the tragedy of bloody grapes? What are they gonna do to make sure this never happens again? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office as a reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for accepting the identity of Minister Gergely Gulyás, so the floor is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-13-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. It was a very sad tragedy in Vértesszőlős, the event took place on Saturday before last week, and with life-threatening injuries, the paraglider who landed unharmed on the top of a high tree and later fell from a height of 15-20 meters due to the rescue helicopter rotor wind of Mi-8, who was helping him, has been completely crushed, and has been treated with life-threatening injuries ever since. Because of this incident, the rescue officer at the scene was also injured. It's very clear here that the rescue itself caused the tragedy. Many claim that in such a case, the Hungarian Cave Rescue Service is the one capable and capable of doing this rescue, and after three and a half years ago there was a similar tragedy during the rescue of a military helicopter, roughly everyone claims that it was due to the fact that a helicopter equipped with such a powerful rotor would cause a problem, and this was reported on the spot by several people. According to press reports, the Hungarian Cave Rescue Service was previously contracted with the National Rescue Service, but this was allegedly banned at the time by the current Prime Minister's Chief Advisor, György Bakondi, and only disaster protection can call this special unit directly to the site. Dear Minister, I think that the specific case must, of course, be investigated, as I understand it, by the prosecutor's office, but here in Parliament, we have to talk about the fact that the circumstances of the case have been investigated by the government, the anomalies and professional problems that have led up to this point, not individual and individual decisions, but systemic decisions. What have they come up with, and what guarantees can they give to keep it from happening again? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-07-13-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Of course, we all hope that the tragedy will not be greater than it already is, so we can only wish the parachutist better from here. The Hungarian Defence Office has the ability to perform rescues with alpin and winch technology in this situation with the help of a helicopter. Nine calls have been made in the last year, three of which were similar rescue situations. In the specific case, I can only say, as Mr President indicated, that the Budapest Regional Investigator's Office is investigating the accident, so that the government will be in the situation after the investigation, after the investigation, that if necessary conclusions are drawn, it will do so. Thus, decisions to which the Member refers can be taken in the light of the results of the inquiry. Since criminal proceedings are still pending, please allow us to inform you and the public about the conclusions that can be drawn from this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-53	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-13-54	Dear Minister, I hope the people who put this paper in front of you won't be writing the report. There was no winch in this rescue, there were no alpinists on the part of the defence, which led to the tragedy, Minister. I think that the government itself has a much greater responsibility, because it is clear from the case that the alarm chain, the cooperation between the organs, is sure that there was a decisive reason why this tragedy happened completely senselessly and unnecessarily, even in spite of everyone's good intentions. And that's the point, and that's the responsibility, Minister, for you to know that the system can't be bad regardless of the people involved in it's decision. I think, Minister, that the family should not only wish good health. Unfortunately, I've got information on the condition of the injured, tragic state, coma, struggle for his life to this day. I would like to ask you that, in addition to wishing you good health, on behalf of the Hungarian Government, you can say that this young man and the young man's family, whatever happens to him, will receive all the help, even financial help, from the Hungarian Government. Thank you.
u2020-07-13-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-07-13-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I suggest that we look for political responsibility where this makes sense, and obviously, in the specific case, it is not the government that saves it, and the organisation that is available for it participated in the parachute rescue on 1 September of last year, 11 October. So the skills needed to save it are clearly available. What kind of omission has occurred in the specific case and is being investigated in the context of criminal proceedings. Of course, only because, on the basis of the information available in the proceedings, liability for damages is likely to stop, so in this case, if such a finding is made or not given, God, criminal proceedings, then there is also a legal obligation to deduct the financial consequences, so that the government may pay compensation where appropriate. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] All I'd like to ask is that everyone wait for the results of the investigation. If we have to draw conclusions from this about the rescue, about the organisation in question, the government will do so, and, of course, with what we can do, we will help the young man and his family. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-57	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Will the hospital of Újpest be finished again? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State for his urgent absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2020-07-13-58	I'm happy to, thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-59	Thank you very much. There you go. You have the floor. [[14.50]]
u2020-07-13-60	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. However, in the case of the Árpád Road Hospital in Újpest, there is nothing to wait for, since you did not have to build it, because the Counts of Károly did so, and did not have to be renovated, because the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments did. But your first step, after some hesitation, was to shut down this hospital, Újpest's last hospital. Nearly 200,000 in Újpest and the 15th in the neighbouring district. the health care of the inhabitants of the region, but in particular the tasks related to the emergency department could have been carried out here, but you transferred this to the XIII. Circuit, Honvéd Hospital, where they're struggling with a nursing shortage. Eight years wasn't enough to make a decision and give reasons for what happened here. There were various ideas about what would happen to this building, while the citizens of Újpest have repeatedly indicated in protests and speeches, here in Parliament, with local government signs, often indicating that there was a need for a hospital, an appropriate service of health care. At the end of the year, you gave your word that nothing would happen without the consent of the municipality. There was some kind of emergency response work, but here the secretary of state of the co-ministery indicated that the planning had begun, but this was now six months ago. After these speeches, I will ask the Secretary of State once again: when can the Újpestians finally get their hospital back so that they can access appropriate health services in a way that is accessible to them directly? Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You just mentioned that the Gyurcsány government renovated and repaired this hospital during the Gyurcsány-Demszky-Bajna era. This sentence is a good example of how you try to rewrite the past. We were not talking about renovation, honourable Member. We were talking about a 55-percent reduction in this hospital. Újpest hospital's internal medicine department, the obstetrics and gynecology department, the relevant specialty clinic, the urology department has been closed. This was a period, honourable Member, which was not about renovation and enlargement, but about the gradual reduction in the possibility of this hospital. Here in Parliament, too, you have talked about this issue several times, and the government has been open to review questions about active health care for people in Újpest, so you have also been welcomed by the Ministry of the Interior, where you were last November, as I recall; and not only you, but also the mayor of Újpest, have been welcomed and called. And there it was agreed that you would send a plan to the Ministry of Interior, which the Ministry of Interior has been waiting for to be delivered in writing since last November. So I think you've had the ball since last winter, it's July this year, it's summer hot, it would have been nice if you and the Mayor had sent this plan, this letter, but it's never too late, I think it's good to send it this summer. At the same time, we have seen the ungár Klára, appointed by you to head the specialist clinic, doing things in Újpest. Remember, we are talking about a professional clinic that can renew from about half a billion forints in the. Healthy Budapest programme to serve the health of the citizens of Újpest. I would not quote all the sentences that he described in his defense against the coronal virus, because there are parts that don't fit into Parliament, but also the most reprehensible revilings that apply to those who would treat the virus differently than he thought they were, the insidious killers and the fascists. I think so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] this was not really the professionality of health care in Újpest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-64	Thank you very much. I wanted the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Science, let's just say, to have agreed that this hospital could be built or set off. Mr. Secretary, please, just the truth, just the real one. You chose as a government what you wanted in that building. They're waiting for you to change that decision. The Municipality of Újpest has made the decision: it has allocated one billion HUF to prepare this work. And you have said that your fellow State Secretary has said here, in favour of you, that this design work is being prepared for you. The people of Újpest are waiting for you, the government, to do their job at last, and to move forward in terms of health services, so that people who live there, who live in Újpest, who live in Rákospalota really have access to these services. But if that's all it takes, Mr. Secretary, then let's sit down with immediate effect and clear the misunderstanding. Thank you very much. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2020-07-13-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I agree with your last sentence, and I think it is worth continuing this series of negotiations that started there last November. With regard to the HUF 1 billion, I would just say that I think that the Fidesz-KDNP administration, which you have spent in one budget, has left 7 billion forints of reserves; that means that only 1 billion of them have been used for health purposes, the remaining 6 for something else. You referred here to Mr Pogácsás's previous speech, which I thought would be referred back to. The Parliament's protocol is a little different than what you said, since you say that there are no negotiations on the exploitation of the building at the moment. Obviously, the Ministry of Interior is open to conducting negotiations in accordance with its respective objectives. I therefore believe that it is worth continuing negotiations from this previous speech, precisely so that we can guarantee the highest possible level of health care for all in Újpest or in the neighbourhood. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The next year's budget includes 30 billion for the. Healthy Budapest. Unfortunately, you did not support it from the left. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Mr. Group leader has indicated that he accepts the person of the responder. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The economic crisis that started after the coronal virus epidemic has already caused extremely deep, enormous damage, but its precise exit cannot be estimated at the depth of this crisis. In any case, we can conclude that the whole European Union, the European area, has been affected by this situation in an extremely vulnerable state, as has Hungary. And so we can draw the very important lesson, or perhaps the most important lesson, that we cannot go further according to logic such as before the crisis, so we need fundamental changes, we need to build a self-sufficient, crisis-resistant economy, essentially in Hungary, at national level and in the European Union. We can also say, with regard to the experience of EU accession, that if we look at the balance sheet of this, very many of us can have the right to be disappointed over the past period. We can see that wage differences are enormous, that territorial differences have not been corrected or reduced, that there are still four Hungarian regions among the 20 poorest regions in the EU, and that has not been changed. This is the result of this extremely serious emigration, as a result of which one in six Hungarian children are born abroad today. So we need a clear change, we need to build a crisis-resistant economy. Compared to this, you seem to be in touch with the political decision-making elite in today's special meeting proposal for a resolution and wish to adopt a proposal that effectively cements this structure. At the price of this, you are indebted to young Hungarians. And if we consider that the huge loans of the Paks project and the Budapest-Belgrád project will have to be repaid at the same time, then we can say that they are virtually putting an entire Hungarian generation in a debt trap. At the same time, they will increase Hungary's and the EU's exposure to global financial markets, increase external debt and, in practice, always take a firm stance on the vision of the European United States, we do not support the vision of the European United States, yet you are taking a huge step by giving up part of tax sovereignty. Minister, my question is why young Hungarians are being trapped in a debt trap, and when it is necessary to act, it is clearly visible [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The need to act for the fundamental reform of the Union, why they miss this action. Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
u2020-07-13-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. [[15.00]]
u2020-07-13-70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, let me point out that it is not easy for us, of course, because the Heads of State and Government from different regions coming from 27 different countries in the European Union must reach consensus, but it cannot be easy for you there, in the left-wing cooperation, because what you have just said is more intensely opposed to the new policy of the Democratic Coalition or even Jobbik than the new policy of the government. So I welcome the sentences that accuse the Hungarian Government of embracing the political decision-making elite within the European Union. This is a whole new direction for opposition criticism. So far, we have always been critical of the fact that the Hungarian Government does not cooperate with the EU Member States, is a bad ally, does not respect the European Union's expectations. So I welcome this new voice in any way, even if it can be extremely dissonant within opposition cooperation. As far as the specific issue is concerned, we have repeatedly said that we believe that crisis management is not the right form of debt. In 2010, we took over government under an 85-percent government debt, which was reduced to 67-68 per cent by the beginning of the coronal virus epidemic. So accusing us of increasing public debt, I think, is fundamentally wrong. The European Union has drawn up a package of proposals, part of which can be taken as a loan, part of which is intended to be distributed as a support by the European Union, but no misunderstanding; it is also obtained by credit and it must also be repaid. I am very pleased that there will be an alliance between those Hungarian parties, and perhaps you will support the parliamentary resolution that has just been tabled, because it is precisely for the sake of a common tax policy and further integration in areas that have not been included in the Lisbon Treaty. So in this case, cooperation between the opposition and the government in EU policy matters can be much more successful and uniform than before. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-71	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-72	Thank you, Mr. President. This is not a problem for the LMP, because we have been rejecting the idea of the European United States since we were founded, and we have always been in politics accordingly. We agree that tax policy must be coordinated as far as possible, but not by giving up the tax sovereignty you are preparing. You're basically engaged in a sort of freedom struggle, but when you have to examine the actions, you can see that you're putting your hands up. And yes, you have, by the way, touched the right-wing elite of the European Union and its right-wing leadership. When they feel that there is an agreement of interest, these decisions will be implemented at any time, even if this cannot be interpreted on the Hungarian national side. Similarly, we have seen countless examples of the fact that the service of great authority interests is often considered to be higher than the representation of Hungarian national interests. Minister, I have tried to ask several of your fellow ministers, State Secretary, about the fact that when, for example, you made a decision regarding the Budapest-Belgrád project, which is of great importance in China, you abandoned the creation of 175 thousand new jobs, this was sacrificed on the side of the Chinese great authority interests. What is the guarantee on the other side, any guarantee was created at all [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is there a guarantee of exploitation or any document that would support this decision on the part of the government? Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-73	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to correct a misunderstanding. So we do not want a common tax policy within the European Union and we do not want to contribute to it.175,000 new jobs have now been heard, but the good news is that in Hungary, not 175 thousand new jobs have been created, but 900 thousand jobs have been created since 2010. There were 3 million 600,000 people working during the left-wing government period, and now, at the outbreak, 4.5 million people. Even better news is that 130,000 people have lost their jobs, but now 4 million 440,000 are working, so practically half of the jobs they lost last week's latest employment figures show that they've rebuilt. We can agree with either the European right-wing elite or others, if this is right and important for the Hungarian national interest, so we will act at the European Union summit before us, but it is undoubtedly a new, colourful and interesting voice which, if I understand it correctly, encourages us to veto. We thought so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that if there are some of the 27 Member States that fail in the absence of assistance, we would not take on this political responsibility and otherwise the responsibility of allies, so that we are willing to support a way of crisis management other than ours, but only if at least the conditions described in the parliamentary resolution are met. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-75	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? Mr. Congressman! Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás has been entrusted with the response. [[Bence of Turdai stands up and nods.]] Thank you very much for indicating that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Bence of Tordai, the notary of the Parliament, shall have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Orbán's eyes shone fiercely when he learned that the rain of EU money would fall on him until 2022, and it could be spent for HUF 5000 billion until the election year. This money is three times as much as Hungary spends a year on investment and development. We know, Viktor Orbán's slogan is "Take the money and run!" Just before they grab the money, you will bring a blackmail letter to the National Assembly, addressed to the other EU Member States. They say that if you do not allow Fidesz to steal freely, Viktor Orbán will veto the entire economic rescue package in the EU. In this paper, you write that I quote literally: the key to the success of the Next Generation EU instrument is cooperation and trust between Member States and towards the EU institutions. It is true, but the basis for cooperation and trust is the rule of law, that is the guarantee. And the rule of law means that you can't steal without consequences, and you can't even make laws so they can steal safely. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's why you were replaced in 2010!]] You can't put Peter Polt in charge of the D.A.'s office, and so on. You write that once again, I quote that the inclusion of resources in political and ideological conditions under the rule of law is unacceptable. å Dear Fidesz colleagues, it is not ideology that you should let yourself steal the Fidesz calmly! [[Dr. Pál Völner: Prove it!]] You often refer to yourselves as Christians. As I read the Bible, 7 out of the Ten Commandments is not to steal. So that's what you would be doing, stealing from Hungarian workers, small entrepreneurs, pensioners, Hungarian children, all the money that the Union is giving them, which is rightfully theirs. This money could build a fair and green Hungary. Minister, do we understand your proposal correctly, saying that if Fidesz can't steal this money, then don't give it to Hungary? I'm curious to hear your answer. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Prove it! Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2020-07-13-77	Thank you very much. Minister Gergely Gulyás responds to what has been said. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[István Szilárd Németh: Minister is a lawyer, not a psychiatrist! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When the LMP and the Dialogue split, the very precise definition was one of the correct political interpretations that this split denies the chemical element that you are the smallest particle that can no longer be divided. Now, when we read again about the fact that the two parties might be united, I would like to point out that it must be very difficult, because while the leader of the LMP group was trying to encourage the government to the veto first, you are accusing us of a lack of loyal cooperation. So it's gonna be hard to reunite what once broke up. As far as the government's position on the package is concerned, we believe that if funds can come from this for Hungary, then, of course, it must be used well. You may not accept it from me, but since the opinion of foreign Heads of State or Government matters a lot to you, perhaps I can suggest to Chancellor Angela Merkel that Hungary makes good use of EU funds. We need to look at the economic growth in this country, and we need to look at what it was like when, by the way, the people you're trying to help back into power. Well, that was indeed stealing, Congressman, but it's one of your allies who was on the government at the time. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Subway 4, OLAF!]] Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-79	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-80	Minister, allow me to give more to the Hungarian voters than to Angela Merkele. They see it as saying that Fidesz people are stealing EU development money, and that is factually true. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why they gave me two-thirds!]] From this point on, it is completely understandable that the EU does not want to give the cash key to thieves, but would rather give the money directly to local governments, Hungarian companies, NGOs and Hungarian people, but you want to cross it. You are imposing unfulfilled conditions for paying the money due to Hungary, which clearly will not meet with the agreement of the EU decision-makers. So you really cut off the Hungarian people from this amazing amount of EU money just so no one else can get it. It seems that if you can't steal it, then you don't need money, so that the Hungarian economy, Hungarian society, and a green and fair Hungary can develop it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 5 percent economic growth... Kocsis-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2020-07-13-81	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[15.10]]
u2020-07-13-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would suggest to Mr President that you at least decide on the direction of the charges before your future speeches. So now we want to prevent consensus, and this money for Hungary, as well as for the rest of the states, or not? Because once I understand it correctly, the accusation is that European Union money is being stolen in Hungary and then that we want to prevent it. The government has used EU funds in recent years as one of the highest economic growth rates in Europe in Hungary. This is probably not due to the miracle, because when your allies were on the government, there was a 7 percent recession, but even in the best years, when there was an 8-10 percent economic growth in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, there was a zero, Congressman. That's when the money was stolen. Now the economy is growing and wages have increased more than ever since the regime changed. The Hungarian government is prepared to cooperate in adopting a package of aid that we hope Hungary can make good use of, but what is necessary not because of Hungary and the Hungarian economy, but because of the southern states, which have failed to respect the basic economic criteria, which, by the way, are part of the European Union's basic treaties, without consequences for years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-83	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Nagy, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Are there any suspicions of violations in the behaviour of the left? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to her absence. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Csaba Nagy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-13-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have left a difficult time behind, but thanks to the timely decisions taken, the preparedness of our professionals and the discipline of our citizens, we have successfully passed the first phase of the fight against the epidemic. In order to prepare for another phase of protection against the coronal virus, the government has decided to initiate a dialogue with people. The national consultation is a proven tool for Hungarians to express their views on the most important issues affecting the country's fate. However, it is absolutely outrageous that the left continues to attack the consultation fiercely with his previous low practice. Right now, they're stealing questionnaires from mailboxes, destroying them, but they're not afraid to collect fresh mail immediately. They are trying to prevent the emergence of dialogue between the government and society, and they are hurting the Hungarians in their free expression. It is quite a repulsive fact that, in addition to the rule of law, the left, who is a daily spearbreaker, wants to boycott the establishment of a democratic dialogue. The action of DK in Veresegyháza is literally gastrointestinal, as the unauthorized collection of consultation sheets and the grubbing-up of the names on them seriously violates the protection of personal data. Unfortunately, this exercise is not unique. According to a video, the envelopes in Mezőtúr are mostly collected, the data on them. We, pro-government representatives, call on the left to remain on the ground of legality, and if you no longer wish to participate in the dialogue on the coronal virus, at least do not prevent it from taking place. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State that there is a suspicion of an infringement in the behaviour of the left. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, In recent months, the left has tried to make it harder to defend itself. Now they're attacking the national consultation, trying to stop people from giving their opinions. There are some places where the questionnaire is taken out of the mailbox, some where the mail is collected and the consultation website is also attacked. The General Data Protection Regulation and the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information that facilitates its implementation constitute a means of far-reaching protection of the individual's right to the protection of personal data. The collection from the left of the national consultation sheets on the corona virus and the re-launch of the economy, if completed consultation sheets allow identification of the individual who completed the national consultation, may be of concern to the data protection regulation of the General Data Protection Regulation, as stated by the President of the NAIH to the press. In any case, from a data protection point of view, it is still considered to be a concern if the completed national consultation sheet is collected by post, as the sender of the consultation sheet can be clearly identified. We understand that no one has registered as a data controller in these cases, so they are in any event in violation of these rules. If the envelope contains personal data as a result of postal collection, the use of personal data under the Criminal Code may arise in the first turn of the facts of the abuse. This requires that the perpetrator treats personal data unduly and differently by violating the provisions laid down in the statutory or EU binding act on the protection or management of personal data, for profit or for significant harm to interests. So the suspicion, I can confirm, exists. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csaba Nagy is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-88	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, What we know is that the left is where we include Ákos Hadházy, MSZP, Momentum, and today, according to news, Jobbik has joined in my constituency in an act that does not necessarily contain these data collection objections, in order to collect national consultation sheets, and this is quite amazing. From the point of view of Hungarian practice, government practice, it is already the eighth national consultation. I think that we should take it all as a national unity and answer questions, who are interested in this and who would like to give an opinion on issues that are very important for the government, because we are actually preparing for the second wave of the coronal virus, and in this respect, the opinion of people is very important what and how they can accept within the legal framework available. This is a bad practice on the left side, and I ask all left-wing politicians not to interfere with the course of national consultation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Unfortunately, it can be observed that indeed, the parties on the left are a cowardly instigator in these stories, trying to avoid legal liability, while encouraging some of the voters to do illegal activities. In all cases, where there is no consent from the part of the consultation sheet to whom it is addressed, procedures may be initiated, as we know, from a data protection point of view, with regard to the breach of privacy, but theft of the envelope itself violates legislation. We are therefore asking the actors in political life, especially the left-wing parties, along with the appendices mentioned by the Member, not to leave the area of legitimacy. If you do not want to participate in the dialogue on the Crown Virus, at least don't prevent the government from conducting this with voters. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Representative Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What is the message? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Sándor Farkas Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I'm sure you're bored, Mr. Secretary, but we're going to talk again about the situation in the production of grapes and wine. I think you are bored because my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz and I regularly raise the problems of people in this sector, the situation of families living in it. Unfortunately, I am obliged to speak again on this issue. And if you are bored, imagine how bored and desperate a Hungarian berry grower can be, who for many years now can expect not enough income for the entire year after his work, even for the cost of the grapes produced. This year they started green harvesting, these days this process is taking place. Anyone who does not work in this area or does not have such a familiarity, I would like to summarise: green harvesting is about the fact that the Hungarian state finances through EU funds that farmers cut immature curls under capital. [[15.20]] In your opinion, this is a kind of internal market measure. I'm saying this because on the Treasury website, where you can register for this green harvesting, it's under this ear. So, while producers would expect a fair price to be paid for the grapes produced, so that, let's say, in cooperative form, there should finally be processing plants throughout the Hungarian countryside that are really in the hands of families, instead of real domestic market measures, these families can rely only on the fact that they are practically working the whole year for nothing. So I ask why, in ten years, a system could not be developed where a Hungarian farmer could make a living from the whole year's work. And who will follow the logic of green harvesting? Last year, they said it was the only exceptional year, and this year it was announced again. What's next? Will this be the case for the cherry next year, or will there be green harvesting for the grains later? Or what your plan is for the Hungarian countryside, Mr. Secretary, because that logic follows. I ask you very kindly to give a meaningful response that can reassure the producers concerned. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-13-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-94	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Indeed, in mid-July, when this market measure, because I think it has happened and is happening, and the wine-growing farmers are taking advantage of the possibility of trying to regulate the market by cutting down certain green harvesting so-called curls, it is always a delicate issue for a farmer to destroy his own crop, so to speak. This is a bit of an internal problem for all of us, not only in this area, but also in other respects. However, last year has also demonstrated that producers who have touched this instrument of market regulation are safe to say that they have not been badly affected. That's, say, one side of the question. Of course, it would be good if the quantity of grapes that is produced in Hungary would be processed, and by means of suitable markets, or by means of producer cooperation, different wineries and wine processors could be built; this, let us be honest, we do not find a need to the extent that would be a solution in certain wine-growing areas. At the same time, there is another issue, a daily issue, and that is the epidemic situation that has developed here in recent months. Some of the wine consumption has been reduced to a certain extent due to tourism and visiting or not visiting restaurants, and this seems to be taking place at the moment. For this reason, it is said that the Horeca sector or sector can account for significant losses, including the wine market in a significant part of it, partly in exports and partly in domestic wine. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm confident that this is the case... but I'll try to react later in a minute. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-96	Well, that's not the answer I was looking for, Mr. Secretary, and not just me, but also the vine growers concerned. We now know the figures: from some four thousand hectares, they indicated that they would use green harvesting, the Kunsági wine region is the largest area of this area, but most of them came from Tokaj-Hegyala, and 15 percent of the land will be unripely covered by the fruit. Speaking of Tokaj-Hegyalja, I was there in person two weeks ago, and I had the pleasure of following the everyday life of a 77-year-old vine farmer who tried to register for green harvesting. It is quite amazing what is expected, let's say, from an older vine grower, what kind of online registration skills should someone who really wants to use this, let's say, service. And if you go into, say, the office of the National Council of the Mountains, where you have a dog duty to help, you will be humiliated at a level that you have never experienced in 77 years. This is not an attitude, Mr State Secretary, so it is no wonder that farming families are constantly in need of our country, and their situation is worse every year. So I can't accept the answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-13-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Farkas is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-07-13-98	Honourable Congressman, Allow the parish staff to have a personal attitude towards different clients... to make this complaint. From this point of view, I do not think that there is a problem with the management of the Agricultural Ministry. The other question is why green harvesting is necessary. We have said this many times in Parliament last year. Let us be honest, there are not the highest quality wine-growing areas or varieties in certain wine-growing areas of Hungary. You're very quiet about this, and you're looking for people who are farming in these areas, where there are much higher crop averages, with extremely low quality. This situation did not occur when the Russian market was still alive when the raw material for the sparkling wine production was supplied by these areas. Today we know that this is not the case. The fact that there are one or two such cases in Tokaj-Hegyalya is not so serious, and I do not consider it general in such a way that it can influence the situation of vine producers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-13-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Representative József Attila Móring, representative of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: Why is a national consultation on the control of the coronal virus important? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, The Fidesz-KDNP government considers dialogue to be of paramount importance to citizens, so since the change of government in 2010, it has made regular use of the possibility of consulting when it asks people's views on important issues between two choices. So far, the government has done this eight times in the form of national consultations, on the Fundamental Law, social and then economic issues, on living immigration and terrorism, on the future of the Hungarian Internet, on national and EU powers, on international plans for immigration and on the protection of families. The government received a reply of millions, often millions, in order, which it took into account in its decisions. The current national consultation on the coronal virus and the re-launch of the economy began. Questionnaires have already been served, and hundreds of thousands of people are expected to make use of the consultation again in the coming weeks by expressing their views and guiding some of the government's actions. Dear Minister, By completing the national consultation sheet, Hungarian citizens can now express their views on issues that are fundamental to our common future. These are: further concrete steps to control the epidemic, the question of the cost of protection, the future of protection programmes at work, support for Hungarian businesses or migration issues, and the future of the European Union economy, with the second Soros plan on European eternal bonds. Today, there has been a serious fight against the epidemic in Hungary, and this must continue. Unfortunately, in this cooperation left-wing politicians are still not partners, as in times of emergency, they are now seeking only their own benefit. The opposition is not attacking the national consultation institution for the first time, but this is often irresponsible behaviour in such a serious time. Those who constantly refer to democracy, lack of it, are now stealing the arches from the mailboxes. I ask you, Minister, why is it important for all of us, and where is the latest national consultation on the treatment of the Crown Virus and recovery of the economy? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-13-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás for his answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-07-13-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Last week's data is known that, although half of the letters have not yet been sent to the recipients, a quarter of a million people have already returned the consultation sheets. This shows that people are willing to give their opinions. Since we see that we are too successful in the first phase of the coronal virus epidemic, but this does not mean that, in the absence of a vaccine, the virus itself has ceased, and all of us in Europe and even in the world are afraid, and there are increasingly obvious signs that a second wave can be realistic, the aim is, of course, to avoid this in Hungary. But if we cannot avoid it, then the basis for the successful defence so far has also been the broad consensus that we have succeeded in creating, indeed without the opposition supporting the steps of crisis management. It is therefore necessary for us to get to know the opinions of voters, based on the experience of March-April-May, which measures were considered effective, which direction are envisaged as part of the future defence. [[15.30]] It is also very important that anyone wishing to give an opinion on these matters should have the opportunity to do so. Therefore, if there is an anti-democratic attitude, it is to limit expression, to steal sheets from different mailboxes, an attitude that I find difficult to reconcile with any form of democratic behaviour. We ask everyone to refrain from doing so. And anyone who thinks it makes sense to take part in a joint statement of opinion, we ask them to complete these sheets and send them back by 15 August. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-103	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-104	Thank you very much. We have all seen that during the past spring, people are concerned about these issues, as we have read numerous comments on the measures on curfew, masking or border closure. Now people have the opportunity to express these opinions in such a way that they have a stake. And opposition politicians on the left are asked to call on their supporters to stop stealing. I have also read in Marcali such an appeal, in which activists belonging to a well - identified party call for them to give them the sheets. Please don't do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Gergely Gulyás, is the subject of the matter. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-106	No, thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-107	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you think you've told me everything about this. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why don't you leave the children alone during the holidays, Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What would you grade your parents, grandparents, brothers, classmates, teachers, friends? What's your relationship with them? Would you like a little brother? Are your parents working? Who do you live with? Do you have your own room? Who do you live with in the same room? Such a question was asked in the Elizabeth camps to children who were there because their parents could not pay for expensive camping. All this was done in the middle of a vacation, when children need relaxation, a cloudless pastime, and we are after such an extremely difficult school year. Children should spend this summer relaxing and recharged. I did not vote for the law on Camp Elizabeth so that you, either the government or any of its organs, would take advantage of children, whose parents can only ensure that the children go to camp. In addition, it is the research institute named Mária Kopp, which allegedly compiled the series of questions and organised the completion of these sheets with the organisation operating the Erzsébet camp. Mary Kopp was a highly prestigious expert who would never allow such a questionnaire to be filled out with children in a vacation camp. Children who have ever talked about their children, their family, should know that children are extremely shut down, are extremely disturbed by the fact that if they are asked about their families, their loved ones, because they do not want to betray them by chance. A person who compiles such a questionnaire and spends it with just one child during a vacation is not really with the children. The Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin operates the Erzsébet Camps, so it is definitely a part of the government's activity, as it is also written on their website that these camps are organized with the support of the Government of Hungary. My question, Minister, would you please tell me if this is really what happened and whether the government has anything to do with this, or if it does, will be stopped? Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-109	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We can find a common point in your speech that you made the right choice when you voted in favour of the legislation on the Erzsébet Camp. In addition, it is completely incomprehensible to me why it would be scandalous if, on the basis of parental consent, children, anonymously, fill in a series of questions that you mentioned. I simply do not see the harmfulness of this either from a pedagogical point of view or the joy of a week-long camp being clouded by this, nor even reduced, so I consider the hysteria that has developed around this case to be unjustified. I believe that the aim of this survey is justified in order to get an overview of children's social relationships and state of mind, how they have lived up to the digital curriculum, which has described education in a rather unusual way in recent months. All data protection aspects are met by these questionnaires. The Data Protection Officer was consulted by the Kopp Mária Institute and their completion is subject to the consent of the parents. I think we should stick to the consensus that it is good that there are Elizabeth camps, and that it does not in any way take away the value of them, but creates an extra, otherwise anonymous, unidentifiable, not name-linked knowledge that can be used and used in the interests of children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-111	Thank you very much, Minister. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2020-07-13-112	Thank you for the floor. I must grieve, Minister, that children can be fully identified because they are asked for data, even the city of their residence, the data from which a child can be clearly identified, and after it is recorded on which camp, at what time it was filled in, it does not require a very serious IT expert to find out who it is in a matter of minutes. I don't know, Minister, that you have a child, I don't know your family life, but one thing I know for certain: who says that during a camping period there is no problem with such extremely sensitive data, to ask children about the relationship with the parent, the family, I'm sorry, Minister, you either didn't raise a child in your life, or you didn't talk to children or children about such matters, but you didn't talk to a psychologist or a teacher, that's for sure. I object to having these questionnaires filled out in camps! There's a lot of opportunities to find kids in school systems, afternoons, classroom classes, all kinds of options, not in one place, and that's camping, which is about cloudless vacations. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-113	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-07-13-114	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, let us try to put in order the circumstances relating to a questionnaire of concern or concern for you. Application for and participation in camping is not a condition for completing the questionnaire, it can only be completed if the parent has consented. Even if the parent consents, the child does not have to fill it in, only fill it out if he wants to, and otherwise these questionnaires can be filled in anonymously. I still don't see what's wrong here. I don't have a child yet, and I really hope that there will be, and I'm sure that if there is, it won't be an insurmountable problem for him to fill out a questionnaire, or if he doesn't want to fill it out, he'll tell me that he won't fill it out. Plus, I'm gonna say this again, in the specific case, we need a parental consent in order to make it even possible for the child to fill it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-115	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Prime Minister an immediate question: "How could this happen? It's an address. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-116	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last few days, there has been a case that has upset Hungarian society very much, this is the case of a pedophile diplomat, after which, after the silence and the slumbering, you can finally hear fidesz speakers that might be able to steer this case in the right direction. What we have missed in any way is that Antal Rogán did not stand out to shoot a little video right after the verdict, or he is an associate of a deputy group leader, who said that the sense of justice of society is so overwhelmed and hurt that there is a need for a change of law, but had to wait days for a reaction at all. There is a question of how we got to this point, because we are talking about a diplomat, an ambassador who has performed a priority task on behalf of the Hungarian state, because he represented our country abroad. [[15.40]] We're talking about a civil servant who's been through national security screening several times. We are talking about a diplomat, an ambassador whose protection, control, or protection against cybercrime or extortion is indeed the responsibility of the Information Office, but we have seen that neither the Constitutional Protection Office nor the Information Office has been able to reveal that an ambassador holds almost 20,000 images of children as a member of a network that was determined to either pay or have to participate in the uploads or recommend this page to someone else, otherwise he would not have been able to participate in this criminal organization. So in relation to the actions of such a person, who is thus clearly extorted, how could no Hungarian body have been able to reveal this problem over the years? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-07-13-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-07-13-118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, In the form in which you raised the question, it is indeed appropriate to address this in such a way as to explain why the services were not aware, and why they were late, of the fact that the diplomat mentioned by you is acting in such a manner, which is otherwise the legal reality of a crime. I would just like to say that I would like to exclude the political part of this debate, because Gábor Kaleta was a diplomat for eight years, from 2002 to the Socialist-liberal government, and then he was a diplomat under the current government for nine years. He was not an ambassador in Berlin or Washington, but in Peru, but, of course, from any diplomat, this behaviour is unacceptable, intolerable; any crime is unacceptable, but such a disgusting form in particular. So much has changed compared to 2013 that my fellow Member, Antal Rogán, but Máté Kocsis, is the leader of the Fidesz faction, so he gave our extremely critical opinion on the judgment given in the justice system in the court. I really think it is reasonable to examine how national security agencies could have learned about his behaviour earlier, when this began, and this will be possible in the coming months. What we can say is that it is justified to adopt a comprehensive family protection package and to strengthen the rules to ensure the sound physical and mental development of children, and to tighten up, if necessary, the criminal code of conduct. The government supports this, and a task force was set up under the leadership of Mr Máté Kocsis. I hope that in autumn or at the latest at the beginning of next year, Parliament can discuss these proposals and amendments to the law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-13-119	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Attila Mesterházy shall have the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-07-13-120	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am glad that we do not distinguish between Washington pedophile and Peruvian pedophile ambassador, so I think it is right that this comparison has not been made, although it is on this path, Minister. So what I would ask is that there has been a measure and I have not received an answer from the Foreign Minister, which concerns the Information Office and the Constitutional Protection Office, to reconsider this entire control mechanism. How is it that co-organs, American and other co-organs have to discover that a Hungarian diplomat, in fact a pedophile, has been on public service for years? Minister, if you listened to my words, I wasn't talking about the Fidesz government, I was talking about this pedophile asshole. [[Deterioration from the independent benches.]] so that someone can serve as a public service in Hungary. The other is that the MSZP had a decision, unfortunately we are not discussing it today, even though it was about this comprehensive child protection regulation. I would have been happy if this had come before this House. And if Mr President allows us to conclude on a completely different subject, I would also like to express our condolences to his family, to his friends, to the members of the Fidesz faction and to everyone who loved and respected him. This is what we want from all of us from the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-13-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-07-13-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, In this case, the competent specialist service will examine the fact that any omissions have occurred, so this will also be done in this case, but since the activities of the services are not carried out in public at better times, I do not think that this investigation should take place in public either. Criminal proceedings are another issue, which takes place in public, and there we are particularly dissatisfied with the fact that such a crime is suspended with a relatively short period of suspended imprisonment. I therefore hope that we will then agree with the Hungarian Socialist Party, or even in a broader sense with the opposition, that it is necessary to transpose into the law provisions on family protection that can serve the protection of juvenile children even more effectively. If you want to do this with the Btk. it needs to be tightened up, then the government is ready to support the tightening of the criminal code. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-13-123	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Is there an opportunity for autistic children to participate in Erzsébet's camp? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister, you have appointed Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, to answer your question. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor, please.
u2020-07-13-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The mother of an autistic child, Érden, began collecting so that she could camp 40 autistic children. He measured their abilities and the abilities of the donors so that they could achieve this goal. However, this seemingly positive case is the result of a very sad story, because the parents of these autistic children have found that although children may apply to the Elizabeth camps, their children were not allowed to be among the other children. Theoretically, the participation of these autistic children in the Erzsébet camp should not be a problem, because they are fundamentally integrated children who can be taught, so they participate in the normal school education system, but I also think that it is sad that what they have encountered is because the range of Erzsébet camps is extremely wide and beautiful: sport activities, art activity, crime prevention, there are many possibilities where they can also develop in a way that is beneficial to them. And I think that, in the case of children with a mild disability or spectrum disorder, this would specifically help them to reduce the number of social failures they otherwise face, whether in school or in later life. I am very confident, Mr Secretary, that what has happened to them is not some kind of system error, because if we accept as a basis that children with mild disabilities or children with spectrum disorders cannot participate in the Erzsébet camp, then they will lose an opportunity with which their integration is virtually lost. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that there is an opportunity for autistic children to participate in the Erzsébet camps. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-07-13-125	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer to your immediate question from the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, will be heard. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think it's an important question, what you said, because obviously for parents who raise children with different diseases or difficulties, it's especially important that they find a camp for their children in the summer where they can safely release their children. That is why it is important that the Elizabeth camps can also satisfy this parental need. Looking at this year, there are only daycare Erzsébet camps this year because of the epidemic. A total of 5683 children with special educational needs can camp in these daycare Erzsébet camps, including 511 autistic children. This was no different in last year's daycare camps, then 3238 children with special educational needs were camped, and 257 of them were autistic children. But it wasn't just daycare camps at the time, it was sleep-in camps. Last year, 2563 children with special educational needs were able to camp in Zánkán and, overall, 227 children with autism spectrum disorder were in these camps. [[15.50]] But, of course, not only do they receive children with autism spectrum disorder, but all disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children, those who receive regular child protection benefits, as I mentioned, children with special educational needs, children with speech disabilities, children with intellectual disabilities, children with sensory disabilities, children with multiple disabilities, children with musculo-skeletal impairment, children with psychological impairment. These children, families can apply to the Erzsébet camp even through schools, through health institutions and through family support services, but also through public education institutions can help. Children with disabilities who are more disadvantaged, particularly disadvantaged, enjoy an advantage every year when it comes to the Erzsébet camps. I'll continue with the healing Elizabeth camps for the rest of a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anett. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. State Secretary, I am assured that we are not talking about a system error, but I must say that if 40 autistic children from a city or its surroundings who have been excluded from the possibility of the Elizabeth Camp are gathered; this mother, who organized this private collection to organise a private camp for autistic children, is counting that she can do this out of a million forints. I think, by the way, and I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State that my information is good that when we talk about a child with a slight disability, they are two in number, these are three in the case of autistic children, but there is no way to increase the head quotas of the Elizabeth camps to such an extent, so it is more difficult to help deliver professional assistance to the Erzsébet camps in this sense. I am asking this because I think that, as I have learned from Mr Secretary of State's reply, we are now working together to find a solution in which as many as possible can camp, where appropriate, children with spectrum problems or mild disabilities. I look forward to your reply, and thank you.
u2020-07-13-129	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We have sought to open this opportunity to as many children as possible, as I have told you, in the case of hundreds, thousands of children, this has succeeded. I do not know what succeeded in that particular case and what did not, but we support these camps year after year in the budget in order to open this possibility to as many sick or recovering children as possible. I think it is worth finding the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, because they will certainly find a solution there, as they have found solutions in hundreds and thousands of cases in previous years. A word or a sentence about healing St. Elizabeth's camps, if you allow it: here we welcome specifically children who are recovering from cancer, diabetics, have congenital heart disease or rheumatic diseases, suffer from eating disorders, premature babies, suffering from neurological, chronic and nephrological diseases, live with psychological injury, hearing aid implants, burns, endocrinopathies, or have lip and palate diseases. We have tried to help families as much as possible in all areas. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would ask you to support the objectives of the Elizabeth Programme with your vote at a later stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-131	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "The smallest are the losers? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to answer his urgent absence. I respectfully ask, Congressman, if you will accept the person who is responding. [[Antal Csárdi: Yes.]] Thank you very much for your signal. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-132	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Next year, the government will tighten up the system of specific taxes on taxpayers, and they will take action against companies that force their employees to become taxpayers instead of employees. This is a good step in itself, but they do so by virtually by means of a lawnmower principle making impossible the vast majority of small and micro-enterprises that belong to the retail sector. I think that this is not right, because we have no doubt that cataloguing makes the daily livelihood of tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs impossible. As is known, in the future, they will charge 40% tax on the share of the turnover of the books that applies to a customer over HUF 3 million. They act like that $3 million limit means something incredible, but it doesn't. We know precisely that this HUF 250,000 monthly gross is only half of the Hungarian average salary, which your KSH has shown so many times. A simple mathematical calculation can be used to calculate that between the three million HUF threshold and the average wage, 60,000 HUF is deducted from small entrepreneurs. All of this is done when the economy is in a situation where it could indeed cost businesses their lives, and they are happy to have a piece of business from which they receive orders. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State why small businesses are still being punished and what they intend to do to ensure that small businesses are not finally on the losing side after a government decision. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It endorses the decision on the part of the Parliament next year that, in the case of companies that are not essentially businesses or forced businesses, because they have done the work in employment or could do the work in employment, but it is much better for their employer as well as for him to choose a method of cataclysing, so this is subject to a separate tax from the bill that comes into force. You approve of that. We agree here. We disagree with interpretation. We also agree that the number of katas is significant, which means that this method of taxation is very popular. In 2013, in the year of the introduction, 80 000 people were elected, now 404 000 in June 2020; five times the number of small entrepreneurs paying taxes in this way has increased. I disagree with you that this absolutely does not affect small businesses, because this method of katás tax is primarily designed to provide services to the general public: shoemaker, hairdresser, seamstress, if you produce a product or other smaller services, rather than when a company entrusts someone for 5-6-8-10 or 12 million HUF per year to otherwise perform the work you could do as an employee in an entrepreneurial relationship. So, on the contrary, this method, this restriction, is helping the smallest of them to continue to be able to tax in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csárdi. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-136	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I support intent, but I don't support method. It is clearly visible and can be demonstrated that this decision puts small businesses, who are, by the way, the most active in this country today, in difficulty, and I think that this is not right. It is worth seeing what the tax burden on multinational companies looks like in contrast. I looked up the data for 2018, and we examined how the 100 largest companies in Hungary took their share of the public burden, and it can be said that in contrast, the tax burden of the first five companies was barely 5 percent. Some companies, such as the flagship of the economy of Audi Hungary, paid 0.6 percent tax on their profit before tax in 2018. 0.6 percent! [[16.00]] And on the other hand, you're trying to charge 40 percent of the average wage... of these people's income. It's shocking, it's embarrassing! Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Subject, predicate!]]
u2020-07-13-137	A one-minute rejoinder will be given to the Secretary of State, and he will be overflowing with the Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-138	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I just realized that you really don't understand the essence of this system, because this plus 40 percent doesn't hit small businesses, but exactly the big corporate clients, so when you demand a greater tax burden on corporate taxation, it will be exactly 40 percent higher. The very point is that the small entrepreneur, the cadaver, can continue his activities under the same tax burden. Of course, if your employer pays this extra tax burden, which still does not reach the tax burden on your employment, then everything remains the same. Not so much that your wish is met: the big ones will pay more taxes; but the little ones will have just as little administration, and they will also be able to cancel their obligation to the state with a tax of HUF 50,000 a month. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-139	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Farkas has appointed Minister of State to respond. [[By car-Cake Olivio:]] Thank you very much, the Member will indicate that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We may agree that Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, but in recent years we have seen that this is becoming less and less so, we cannot slowly lay down a towel that will not benefit Lőrinc Mészáros and his business circle. We can also see that Hungary has not only a Hungarian sea, but it is slowly having its own wild west at Lake Balaton, because the people of power can do almost anything, and the Hungarian people can do almost nothing. Luxury villas grow out of the ground in places where they shouldn't. For example, nature conservation areas are dozered. An ectant example of this can be seen in Tihany. In all cases, the scenario is the same: existing legislation is being circumvented. Luxury villas, which are officially agricultural buildings with residential function, in which they store equipment for gardening. Or pools, which are officially garden lakes or rain reservoirs, while precisely in this place the construction code expressly prohibits the construction of pools designed to bathe. So the rainwater reservoir will be a spruce water-mirror luxury pool. Dear Secretary of State, What usually happens is that a small fine is imposed, but these are simply calculated into the price of hundreds of millions of villas. The Dialogue did what it could, the necessary measures. We wrote a letter to the government office, the national park. My question is what the government is doing to stop these harmful processes.
u2020-07-13-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Sándor Farkas will answer you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-142	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I would like to start by saying that every time we have said that the government is committed to maintaining the values of Lake Balaton as a natural medium, we also believe that the people living there have the same right to a good life as those living in other parts of the country. We therefore need to pursue a policy that, in addition to protecting our natural values, and this must be at the top of the priority list, those living there should benefit from the economic results that have a positive impact on their quality of life. We have argued on several occasions about the situation in the case of reeds, among other things. What I can tell you is that earlier than ever, and every time that happens illegally, the authorities will act harshly. It is important to highlight, especially now, during this period, the importance of Lake Balaton as a Balaton region in domestic tourism today, how important it is that these people who want to spend their free time, their freedom alongside Lake Balaton or within the borders of the country, the role of Lake Balaton is appreciated, and we believe that this appreciation is important not only in today's tourist mass, but also in the future it will require an even greater attention. For this reason, we intend to implement the environmental protection requirements with the authorities each time and not least. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-144	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for saying this, but you did not answer my question, the specific question of how you intend to proceed in Tihany's case, how you intend to prevent the constructions there, which we believe to be completely illegal. I've put in a written question about this. Be kind then to respond specifically to the consequences of these constructions. I am glad that if the government is committed to this, then be so kind as to consider the Balaton law that is currently in place, because it is an opportunity for harmful processes that are now under way. What is needed here is that the local governments, in whose hands the building permit procedure has been completely removed, should sit with local authorities and local civilians on this law and not adopt the legislative proposals submitted by the various economic lobby groups. If they do not, then the Dialogue is of the opinion that there are no small fines to be imposed here. If illegal construction is in place, it must be destroyed, these illegal constructions must be dozed off. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Farkas is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-146	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, Tihany is extremely important, very noble and not least irreplaceable natural value, but according to the current legal provisions, the Balaton-Felvidéki National Park Directorate is not directly involved in the process of building authorisation procedures, given that, in the absence of powers, he does not have direct access to the submitted plans, he does not have the opportunity to comment on the plans. The Veszprém County Government Office, which has rights, examines construction plans as a special issue in the building authorisation procedure of the environmental and nature conservation department, in accordance with the landscape and nature conservation criteria. If you give me your written question, honourable Member, I can give you more details. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Pesti Imre, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what risks do you have, or what harm can the spreading of false news in the successful defense against the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congressman Pesti Imre has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-13-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Recently, on the social side of the socialists, there was a video in which Lajos Korózs, a socialist Member, talked to a woman he called an ambulance. The woman in the video, Athina Németh, said absurd things. Among other things, he claimed that nine of the ten patients he supplied had died, and later it turned out that he had never worked for the National Rescue Service or any other medical company. The case caused a huge public uproar. We have repeatedly asked the left to stop producing false news. The police have initiated an ex officio investigation into the left-wing fake video. However, last week another imaginative fake video was released, in which Károly Németh spread about a miracle machine that he marketed in eight minutes. We were almost surprised that Károly Németh was the brother of Athina Németh, the hero in the fake video on the left. According to Charles, he had already visited the national authorities, who were passed out one by one, and urged them to discuss this miracle machine with the government as soon as possible. Nevertheless, the government bought the antiquity machines. While the man suspected corruption, as in the first case, it was quickly revealed: not a word of it is true, it is another left-wing creation. [[16.10]] Political motives and interests could lie behind the harsh lies of the brothers. The aim of the left remains to deliberately mislead people with unfounded false news and undermine public confidence in health care. In view of this, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what risks he has and what harm the dissemination of false news could cause in the successful control of the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári answers the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-150	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We could see that by all means he tried to attack the defense against the Crown Virus by the opposition instead of helping him. While in other countries, where there are even ethnic fault lines within a country, the opposition has been able to unite to defend itself against the Crown Virus, left and right, government and opposition, the opposition has not done so in Hungary. Here in Parliament, too, he was opposed to the legislative proposals that we tabled, and he also tried to spread false news about Hungary abroad. Here in Hungary, they tried to attack the protection against the corona virus from one direction or another, but because they did not find any real evidence, no real mistakes were found, so anyone who said something negative about the government's defense was immediately raised to the political stage, made videos with it, produced news with it, commented on these news on their own Facebook pages to try to bring some criticism against the government to the surface. However, whether in the case of Athina Németh or Károly Németh, it turns out that these are false news, untruths, fake videos, we are also dealing with one of these. In István Vácsó's post, he wrote about this wonderful news: if what is true in this, then the worldwide scandal [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I mean, if the government doesn't use this machine and doesn't buy it in bulk, which, in his opinion, shows up in eight minutes, detects the coronal virus, it's cheap and modern, and, as the congressman pointed out, the government buys expensive and unconventional machines. As it turned out, the company that claimed to be an employee of the company was separated from this person, from the ministries, from the State Secretariats, from any request, and the doctor did not see or praise this machine. First of all, the NewsClick page, remember that they were the ones who rewritten the sentences of Bertalan Tóth about the milk power, rewriting the rules of spelling, it was as if they were editing this NewsClick page in the press department of MSZP, and they were the ones who wrote Lajos Korózs' apology announcement here, and then Lajos entered the personal participation with a letter in close cooperation. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We see it with the Hungarian Socialist Party, and yet it was they who brought this news, which was actually a fake news, a fake news. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Pesti Imre. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-152	Thank you for the floor. It is regrettable, because health care is a system where a relationship of trust between a doctor and a patient, a patient and an institution, a patient and a healthcare system is essential for successful healing and healing. All such news seriously undermines this trust relationship, with virtually a fall in faith in healing, even deaths. The other thing is sad: the MSZP team, the commission of inquiry, which investigated the fake video, which was created on the day, carried out the investigation and then did not identify the person responsible. This also means that the socialists are extremely frivolous about this issue, they are not really interested in the consequences of certain statements, in Hungarian: they are sacrificing the confidence of the entire Hungarian health system for political purposes; this is regrettable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-154	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We will probably remember these few months not only for years or decades, but for the rest of our lives, which was the period of the coronal virus epidemic, but at the same time remember that the Hungarian left during this period was completely unfounded against Hungarian defense with fake videos and false news, the defence that is at European level, thank God, among the most successful, is the first third of European countries. Those who produced these false news here in Parliament made videos for dialogue MEP Lajos Korózs, MEP Lajas Szabó Timea, because the biggest untruths were claimed in such an extremely critical period as the coronal virus epidemic? When the whole world was looking at one thing, they were making fake videos, and their hair wasn't bent, there was no investigation, no real investigation, no accountability. But the Financial Times Németh Athina article was corrected on his side in a month? No. Did Euronews correct the fact that it's actually a fake video, and these allegations are untrue? No. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There was no consequence of the biggest false allegations, either on the left or in the European left-wing press. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs and Ádám Steinmetz, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State for his reply. Thank you for accepting the response, Mr Adam Steinmetz. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: Yes, I respectfully accept.]] Thank you very much. Congressman Steinmetz has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm going to ask you questions on behalf of the Somogy people in the hope of a professional discourse. It is a great pleasure for us that our country can organize a MotoGP tournament in 2023. At the border of the village of Sávoly, the construction of such a course began with the participation of our World Champion Gábor Talmácsi, when the 4 km long foundation of the course was completed with 4 thousand tons of stone, worth about HUF 10 billion, and then the economic crisis came and the construction stopped. And in recent months, I have repeatedly said on financial and tourist grounds that if MotoGP, then Sávoly, this course must be completed, this course would mean a clear development for our region and hope for the people who live here to move a little further. However, it is shocking that the Fidesz MEPs in Somogy do not see this, and even Attila Móring József tried to campaign falsely against the end of the track. Well, that's shocking. Marcali, Hévíz, Zalakaros, all of Balaton's tourism restaurants could benefit from the competitions to be held near M7 and Sármmellék airport. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to explain to the people the professional basis on which the decision was taken when the MotoGP field was designated. Can we trust that in 2023, the Balatonring construction of the Lanely Balatonring will be completed with government help? Can we trust him, Mr. Secretary? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-13-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Yes or no. Yes, to support sport, not to show off political self-interest. Yes, investments in Somogy, not irresponsible improvements. Yes, to the interests of somogy workers, and not to unprofessional criticisms. Honourable Congressman, Yes, we agree that support for Hungarian sport is important and that talented athletes need a high-quality infrastructure environment. Yes, any investment that creates a worthy framework for athletes and that is really needed and needed. Congressman! Therefore, it is not understandable why you are attacking an important investment, why you are attacking the construction of a modern, multifunctional, economical racetrack on the outside of Hajdúnánás. Yes, this course will indeed be able to accommodate the MotoGP races of Formula1 riders in Hungary. [[16.20]] And yes, Congressman, we have looked at several locations before the decision, various alternatives have come up, and indeed the case, honourable Member, is that a professional decision has been made, because not only is the right area available in Hajdúnánás, but there are three cities with county rights close to Debrecen, Miskolc, Nyíregyháza, the University of Debrecen, and the establishment of the automotive centre is also within reach. So this region can be put not only on the map of Hungary, but also on the map of the world's automotive industry. Honourable Congressman, We ask you not to attack this investment, but to support it as a sportsman. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Adam Steinmetz. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-160	Dear Secretary of State, I've accepted that you answer, and you accept that you have to answer. He didn't bring up any professional arguments or even attacked me and called the investment in Tapololy irresponsible development. Well, let's see what we're talking about. On the day of Hajdúnánána, your plan is to build this from 65 billion forints, but we know that this will increase by several times as we go along, while we can complete this investment and this MotoGP course from 30 billion in Sávoly. So it doesn't make sense to you why I'm here for the people of Somogy, and why I'm making arguments to make this investment happen there. But since you didn't bring up any professional arguments, I'm saying there aren't any. There are political arguments, Lajos Kósa likes to ride a motorcycle, and he wants to build this track in East Hungary. That's it? Yeah, that's it. But they're not gonna shove that down people's throats. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to make public the contract that you concluded with Dorna, the rightholder of MotoGP, in order to find out what the track does not correspond to. They're gonna make it public? Yes or no? [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2020-07-13-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-162	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that since the design of the track in Sároly in 2008, the requirements for the MotoGP competition site have changed significantly, this course would not be in line with today's competition, as planned at the time. In addition, it is worth looking around the site to see what conditions are now in place. The requirements of the benches, the building and the central infrastructure are far from met, the line management is outdated, and there is a similar track in the tournament calendar; there is not enough room to create the right infrastructure, and it would be significantly more expensive with the demolition than this new development, by the way. But, honourable Member, allow me to ask you back: why are you lobbying for a failed project, why are you lobbying for a failed enterprise for which there has not been a market investor for ten years? It's got a message value. What is the message of this, honourable Member, that you are lobbying for this? Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. In the current situation, how does the government support agricultural entrepreneurs? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Sándor Farkas has given him the right to reply because of the absence of his presence. I respectfully ask, you accept the response.
u2020-07-13-164	I'll take it.
u2020-07-13-165	Thank you very much for indicating this to me. So it's up to Congressman László Földi, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The last few months have been hard on Hungarians, Hungary, not only the people, but also the economy. We also know very well that the government has taken several important decisions that can effectively contribute to countering the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic. The Agricultural Ministry has also prepared a number of programmes and package of applications for farmers aimed at boosting the economy and protecting jobs in the agricultural sector. The agricultural portfolio prepared a crisis management, non-refundable programme of HUF 25 billion for the actors in agriculture and the food industry. The primary objective is to maintain security of food supply, to strengthen production capacity and to protect some 140 000 jobs. In the Agrár Széchenyi Card Plus construction, some 3,000 farmers have already applied for a preferential loan of more than HUF 54 billion. Dear Secretary of State, The KDNP fully supports the support schemes created by the Agricultural Ministry for Hungarian farmers and Hungarian businesses, as the Hungarian agricultural sector has been affected by frost damage and drought in March-April, in addition to the difficulties arising from the coronal virus. The harvest is now taking place, the harvest of rape, wheat, Autumn barley has begun, and we know that drought has hit over 300 thousand hectares in this sector. On the basis of the above, I ask Mr Secretary of State how the government will support agricultural entrepreneurs, what new things will be expected in agriculture, and how you see, Mr Secretary of State, the harvest of arable crops and grain will bring results by the end of the summer. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Sándor Farkas will answer you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-168	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, This year is also a very tough year for agriculture, a challenging year, if I may say so, because spring frost damage, winter, spring precipitation, drought weather, various animal diseases, epidemics have all reached the sector, which is an extraordinary challenge for us. At the same time, I can tell you with a calm conscience that the Hungarian government, the agricultural government, is doing everything in its power to minimise these losses. It is of particular importance to mention that there are various losses in various sectors of the sector specifically related to the coronal virus epidemic. Therefore, today, the agricultural government announced to these sectors the opportunities for some HUF 25 billion where some difficulties, market disturbances, and production losses occurred during the covid outbreak. But once again, I would like to stress that this has not endangered or threatened the safety of the population's food supply to the general public. These subsidies mainly serve the purpose of ensuring that these enterprises are provided with additional production standards, production volumes and good, safe food production, while surviving various minor losses and some uncertainties. This form of support is very helpful in this, there is very serious interest. However, I would also like to point out here that 98.8 percent of the aid applications submitted on the basis of a single application were met by the agricultural administration through paying agencies by 30 June at around HUF 493 billion. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Földi. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I asked these questions because I came from a region where agriculture, arable crops, but gardening also has a serious tradition, a serious culture; and in the course of meeting farmers and talking to farmers, we did see the loss of frost damage, which is why the fruit has become very expensive, for example, in the markets, and we have seen how drought has affected the production of arable crops, especially cereals, and that is why I consider it important the measures, all 25 billion dollars of aid or other subsidies that guarantee the safe food supply of Hungarian people, and on the other hand, they will also provide production security for small producers for the following year, as we hope. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-13-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Farkas is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-07-13-172	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I haven't had a chance to answer your question in the last two minutes, and I would like to answer it in a few words. In the current harvest period, I say now, we are living at the peak of the summer harvest period, what results have we achieved? As I mentioned earlier, the spring drought affected a significant part of the state of development of the autumn barley and the stalkers. [[16.30]] In autumn barley, we are expected to report a good medium, a medium crop in autumn wheat, so slightly less than in previous years. The harvest of autumn cabbage rape is under way, here we are expecting a greater loss, with experience of 2-2.1 tons per hectare. At the same time, I would like to mention that the very rainy weather of the last few days has made the sector's fate more difficult. I'm from a place where our neighbor fell 400 millimeters of rain, and there's a catastrophic situation. There is no hope that this will be harvested in time. I trust that we will be able to help farmers who have suffered such severe natural damage through adequate compensation funds. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question. It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Secretary of State for his response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard it today, the virus must be stopped at our borders, and we have also heard the Prime Minister, who said that the biggest problem in the second stage of the viral crisis is the introduction, right in the middle of the tourist season. While everyone was thinking, of course, about how to stop it, we heard yesterday that Minister Gulyás said that he was classified, the government classified the countries, there is also a red, orange or yellow country, or there is a green country in our environment, from which certain conditions of entry must be met, or there is no way to travel to the country from the red-signed countries. In fact, my questions would be about it, and I am sure that the foreign affairs portfolio can help me to see how these countries have been classified. Croatia is in the green zone where it is safe to go in and out, even though there are many Hungarians, many people are coming and of course are coming home, obviously there is a much greater risk that someone might bring home a virus, someone might become infected in Croatia than if they were coming home from Africa or Asia, because there are far fewer of them. We see that Ukraine has conditions for entry and exit, but Ukrainian migrant workers can come here without any conditions, otherwise to work instead of Hungarians, obviously much cheaper, but they can come here. The press reports that those who came here were immediately quarantined in Gyöngyös, just 88 of them the day before yesterday. So my question, Mr Secretary, is how we managed to classify these classes, on the basis of which we managed to classify these colour codes. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-13-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer you, Congressman. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I welcome it and I am pleased to hear that you are concerned about the health of Hungarian people, the problem is that I cannot give you credit for your concern, your concern, your concern for your party, or your concern for the Left, because if this concern were credible, and you would really be concerned about the health and safety of Hungarian people, you would have supported the protection against the virus in the previous stages, but you did not. We need to see what's behind us, and we need to appreciate it correctly. We have succeeded in the first phase of defence, and this is solely due to the cooperation of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government. What is unfortunate, however, is that you did not support this defence and this cooperation, and at the time I was very subtle, I could also say that wherever possible, you were attacked and, wherever possible, tried to make it difficult. Nevertheless, this cooperation was successful, and the epidemic situation in Hungary is extremely good in terms of Europe and the surrounding countries. So we had to conclude that basically the epidemic could be imported into Hungary, if you like. This is why the operational tribe has dealt with this issue, which is why the government has dealt with it, and that is why it has been decided that the so-called border regime should be tightened up. These restrictions have been made, as is well known to you, in three categories the government and the operational tribe have classified the countries. On the basis of which, it is terribly simple: based on the guidelines of the National Centre for Public Health, which is based on numbers and based on numbers, several numbers, several weeks of processes, or at given moments of active infection data, and their comparison. So these comparisons and these guidelines are provided by professionals, we get them from professionals, and I very much ask you not to question their credibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If we hear the opinions of professionals from professionals, we obviously give them a different credit than from politicians. From this point of view, it seems very much that it is possible to come and go to Croatia as the Hungarians would like, because your oligarchs have to fill their interests abroad, especially in Croatia, with Hungarian tourists. The reason why Ukrainian migrant workers can come here is no matter what kind of pandemic, what kind of epidemiological situation there is, because you want to meet the labour needs of the multinational companies you support, even if this could be an epidemiological hazard. Anyway, it's the same with all the camping programs, it's the same with everything else. I wouldn't have taken this conversation to this point, Mr Secretary, but as you answered politically, I also see that unfortunately there are political and non-professional reasons for this.
u2020-07-13-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-180	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The only thing you don't care about is the safety and health of the Hungarian people, you just wanted to give up the same mantra that all left-wing parties have learned in some kind of drama. From Jobbik through the MSZP to the end of the Dialogue, we could hear exactly these sentences. You have nothing to say to the Hungarian people, the health and safety of the Hungarian people are the least interested in you and you, and you are only interested in giving up political mantras, political, infinitely boring panels without any creativity, and this is what we have just heard from you. The Hungarian government, in cooperation with Hungarian people, continues to protect against the virus, and the safety and health of Hungarian people remain the most important, health is the most important, and the second is that jobs are protected and jobs are created. This work is also being done, despite the fact that you are constantly attacking it. I would like to remind you, if you have mentioned jobs, you have destroyed so many jobs in eight years that it has pushed an entire country into a terrible, hopeless state. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and thanks to the Hungarian people's instinct to live, the country was able to come out of this pit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Miklós Simon, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what are the risks associated with the combined strengthening of the epidemic and migratory pressure? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of his absence, Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Secretary of State to respond. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congressman Miklós Simon has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-13-182	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In Hungary, the number of people infected with the active coronal virus continues to decline even after the disease control restrictions have been alleviated, but the epidemic has not ended. There is an increase in the number of diseases in neighbouring countries. In Serbia, epidemics have developed across the country, hospitals are slowly filling up, and the government is forced to re-introduce curfew. A few days ago in Romania, the daily number of newly registered coronal viral diseases reached a record. It is difficult for authorities to persuade the public to comply with disease control measures. There were similar sad records in Ukraine. A few weeks ago in Austria, the number of new cases also started to rise, to which the government responded with school closures. According to the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, several infections were due to trips to the Western Balkans. Unfortunately, there has been an increase in infection levels in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and even in Slovenia, which has previously been extremely successful in defending. [[16.40]] It cannot be ignored that in many cases the epidemiological situation is becoming critical in countries from which illegal migratory pressures are being imposed on our country. Unfortunately, since the beginning of the summer, the number of illegal cross-border attempts has risen again to the level of 2016. With all due respect to the Secretary of State, what is the danger of an epidemic that is worsening in our southern neighbours? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and increasing migratory pressure? Can the two processes have a combined effect?
u2020-07-13-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás will answer you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The importance of security and the importance of personal security, the safety of our family, is said many times, and we really feel the real weight of this when this security has ceased or is shaken, the danger of this is present. Security can be diverse: public safety, health safety, safety of jobs and the rest, so we are talking about a wide variety of security, but it is true that at the moment we feel that this security is getting out of control, it is very much appreciated. And in recent years, we have witnessed precisely these processes, as public security in Europe and thus as part of Europe appeared to be shaken for a moment, and the epidemic and virus that we are experiencing have also brought about an uncertain situation that employs all people. I think that it is a great thing and it is a very good thing that the Hungarian people have felt that all kinds of political sentiments and feelings are being put aside here with the government, in cooperation with the government's decisions and in identity, and this cooperation, this joint effort has helped this country to be one of Europe's, if not its safest country, both in terms of immigration and in terms of the health situation. It is clear in the countries of Europe, however, that illegal immigration, migration, is also threatening the health situation and the epidemiological situation, which is why our aim remains to protect the country's borders, and our goal remains to fulfil all our obligations arising from our membership of the European Union, namely to protect the country's borders safely and to control entry. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-13-186	Thank you very much. The government, the operational tribe and the epidemiological authority are constantly assessing the epidemiological situation in Hungary and Europe, and based on the analysis of the data of the last few weeks, it is concluded that the introduction of the disease into our country is currently the greatest risk. That is why the new rules have been introduced. At the same time, we can also hear people trying to cross illegal borders and smugglers arriving in more aggressive and well-equipped groups. I ask the Secretary of State: have you really experienced this trend in the case of illegal cross-border attempts? How can such processes be dealt with? Thank you very much.
u2020-07-13-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now it's time for the Secretary of State's rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-13-188	Thank you very much. On the one hand, it is quite obvious that the epidemiological situation requires tightening up. These restrictions have been mentioned in this House for the past few minutes, and I think that every step of this is known to people. There is also a clear danger that the economic situation caused by the epidemic in the backward countries, in countries which are already issuing countries, will further increase the pressure on people living there to move towards Europe. It is therefore very important that we continue to provide border protection in an appropriate way. And on the basis of your question in particular, I have to say that this year's migration pressure to Europe has increased by about 40 percent at the Hungarian borders as well. Border protection bodies do their job, of course, and they protect the border. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-13-189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the immediate questions. Given that no faction has asked for an interpellation and a question, these items will not be discussed. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr László Keresztes, Head of Group Lóránt, from the Group of the LMP, asked for a speech on the situation of the railway. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-13-190	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Shortly after Sunday, I think it is important that we thank everyone here in Parliament for their work in this very important strategic sector, everyone who is struggling to operate and maintain the sector, in the difficult conditions that are visible and well known to all of us. At the same time, I think that thanks are not enough, but that the appreciation that is needed in such a sector should be given, that financial appreciation for salaries should be given, and that an appreciation should be given that decision-makers provide adequate working conditions for workers in the railway sector. That is why I am calling on the government to provide the necessary resources for this. At the same time, I would like to refer to one more point concerning the situation of the railway. It is very important that professionalism prevails in the sector, not the short political calculation. Over the last few weeks, I have repeatedly spoken about the fact that the government has made a rather outrageous decision that 34 railway lines in Hungary have been virtually sentenced to death with a so-called epidemiological agenda. No one can seriously believe that in an epidemiological situation the train replacement bus may be safer than the railway, and therefore clearly professional aspects are completely unacceptable. On the other hand, the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV acknowledged that this decision was also extremely serious economically, as the train replacement was HUF 2 billion for the company in connection with the 34 railway sidelines. I travel the country myself, I have spoken on this issue in many places in the counties concerned, and unfortunately I have received a signal from several places that they wanted to express their views to the decision-makers in improvised public forums or even in pre-emptive residential forums, but they have not even given them the respect to participate in this. And the Ministry of Innovation and Technology gives me regular political answers to my written questions. We believe that the Hungarian railway network should not be dismantled, that the sidelines should not be closed, but that it should be improved and better equipped to meet the Hungarian people's travel needs by creating an appropriate timetable environment. In my post-meeting comment, I would also like to talk about another specific matter concerning the Iregszemcse municipality of Tolna County. I was there the other day, and I was able to see for myself that a very serious investment was launched, from nearly HUF 1.4 billion the development of the school there, practically a new school is being built. At the same time, a local government representative called my attention to the fact that, due to some kind of planning anomalies, such a huge investment is not part of the construction of a room for the local catering of children. So, in particular, this 1.4 billion investment is built without an opportunity to eat. The official justification for this is that the municipality will resolve the dining in the nearby dining room, but that is not true. I was on the spot myself, and I saw that children had to travel nearly a kilometer to attend the daily meal, and in some places, unfortunately, on an extremely dangerous road. I would also like to draw the attention of the decision-makers in the Parliament to the fact that there is still room for action in this matter. The municipal representative of the municipality and several of the stakeholders contacted Mr Süli and asked for his help to modify the technical content at this time, at such an investment stage, and to modify the plans, and to ensure the possibility of local catering for children from this huge source. We have not yet received an answer from the Minister, but I am asking you to be constructive in this, and do not give the decision makers the opportunity to put hundreds of children at risk of accidents every day. So, in this case, we ask all the competent authorities and all the decision-makers to look into this problem thoroughly, to address this problem with sufficient seriousness, and now, when there is still room to modify the technical content, to expand the investment and to ensure that children can be fed locally, this is in the interest of the municipality. I will personally contact Minister Süli on this matter in a few days, and I hope that this matter will be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[16.50]]
u2020-07-13-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Mr Varga-Damm Andrea has not yet spoken after the agenda on the Kaleta issue. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-13-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin my speech after the agenda, I would also like to express my condolences to the Fidesz fraction about the tragic death of our fellow Member Ferenc Koncz. On the subject of my speech after the agenda: Pannonhalmi Bencés High School, close contact with Jesuit communities, diplomatic life, a man exercising his faith, father of several children. This is Gábor Kaleta, who fell in the spring of 2019 during an investigation into an international paedophile network conducted by the US authorities. More than 19 thousand pornographic images of childhood were seized on the computer devices of the former ambassador. The diplomat was later brought home in secret, deprived of his post as ambassador with immediate effect. This is happening in the spring of 2019, but it was only revealed at the beginning of this year when the Index wrote an article about it. That is, the Hungarian government has kept from society what the ambassador representing our country has done abroad, embarrassing our country and embarrassing the entire diplomatic company. He was sentenced to two and a half years in prison by the court for a fine of 540,000 forints. There is a terrible and justified outrage in public opinion about this. I'm sure if he gets caught at home, they'll keep it a secret. I am convinced that if he hadn't been caught by an international investigative network, then today we don't know how inclined this man is. The judge pointed out in the grounds of the judgment that the current law would allow a sentence of three months to three years, but since the motion of the prosecutor was to give Gábor Kaleta one year in the event of a confession, they would have to give it even if they did not find it justified. The court agreed with the D.A. that there is no need for imprisonment under extenuating and aggravating circumstances. After the decision outside the trial, the decision was not final, because the prosecutor's office requested a trial and initiated a prison sentence, and when this horribly mild judgment was reached, the prosecutor's office took the following position: in this case, it proposed a prison sentence while the prosecutor's office held a trial. In view of the epidemiological situation, the court ordered an out-of-court order and a suspended sentence against the prosecution's motion. Then, when the D.A. didn't take this decision, he asked for a trial, and he suggested that if Gábor Kaleta confessed to the crime, he would have had enough suspended imprisonment. That is, according to the D.A.'s view, if someone in a case like this, where it's quite clear what he's done, admits it, it's so mild that he doesn't have to go to jail. It's horrible in itself. Which means the court and the D.A. are pointing fingers at each other. In fact, the court can't be more serious than what the D.A. is asking for, with one exception, if the crime is treated differently. However, this was not a question in this case. I am convinced that if the prosecutor's office didn't make that choice, I am convinced that the D.A.'s office has decided to press political pressure so that someone in such a serious case can get away with it with such a slight punishment. Then came the ten-year-old encryption, and it was also that he was secretly smuggled home by the authorities from Peru and the U.S. authorities, because very little is said about it. The law says that the acquisition and detention of pornographic recordings of persons or persons under 18 years of age is a maximum of three years. So in this case, the court could have imposed three years. How is it that there are sentences from to, and we see in order that no one gets the maximum penalty for anything? What kind of justice is this? Where I could've given the judge an idea. It is an aggravating circumstance that he served our country abroad. It is an aggravating circumstance that he has overpowered a whole country and a whole society, a society of diplomats. It is an aggravating circumstance that he himself professes to be a Christian, he says that he exercises his faith daily. It is an aggravating circumstance that he has four children, and yet he is still able not to cure himself with such a tendency, but to do so in secret. My question to everyone is that it will remain this way in Hungary: if you are an important comrade, you will be fined slightly and you will commit the smallest act. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are we really gonna measure that? What kind of country are we? ! Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-13-193	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. * Clean water in the cup! Mr Kotocsáné Kőrösi Anita, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-13-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI In the first century we expect to open the water tap and drink water from there. Yes, but a week ago, last Monday, in Siófok Kiliti, the inhabitants received a message that the water flowing from the tap was suitable for human consumption only after boiling. This means that there has been some kind of water pollution. In the last week, the Regional Waterworks Ltd. has been continuous. Notices issued by the public, which clearly reassure the public that they are doing their best to ensure that drinking water, tap water, is fit for human consumption as soon as possible. Yes, we have just come to the point that there are investments, there are improvements that are not always possible from the point of view of this basic human need. Obviously, in the Siófok case, in Siófok Kiliti, an illegal connection may be the reason for this, which I know is obviously not the fault of the DRV, but there is one issue that I would like to present here in the Parliament. It is not just on one occasion that we have asked my fellow Members from LMP that the public utility tax, which I would like to present at present, is planned to collect HUF 53,4 billion from public utility tax, which means that although it is not only for water utility networks, but also for telecommunications, gas and electricity lines, a large portion of this HUF 53.5 billion, a larger part of this would also be charged to water utility networks, which means that these companies, in this case Siófok, would also have to pay for more important investments after kilometers, such as the replacement of water utilities, which would otherwise be necessary. Each time, even during the meeting of the 2021 budget, we discussed how good the Hungarian village programme is, how much road network development can be done from the .Hungarian village programme. Yes, I just hope very, very much that when these public procurements are launched, and when these works are started, both the esteemed investors and the local authorities will be aware that this will be done together with the relevant water utility provider and other public utility providers, because it is very unpleasant, which has happened in many cases, in many cases, that road renovations will be carried out, that the roads will be built from millions and billions of forints, and then the 70-80-year-old pipes, because it is not uncommon when we talk about plumbing at this age, were not replaced simply because of maintenance and renovations, and therefore, in the event of such a pipe break, the brand new road surfaces will have to be broken up. So, I understand that the problem in Siófok is different, and I wanted to talk about it here in this House because water is one of our national treasures. I think that Hungary is proud to have such high quality drinking water. Let us take care of this, do everything we can to ensure that when we open that particular tap, it is indeed the water that flows, it is the responsibility of all of us, and when there are illegal bindings, we must impose serious penalties on those who have done so. I am a maximum partner in this, and I respectfully ask the municipalities to invest in renovations, investments, road renovations, and continue to invest in the drinking water pipeline system, since it is important for all of us to obtain healthy drinking water. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-13-195	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you all for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you all a safe journey, a happy return home. Meeting day's closed.
