u2020-02-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear House, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Yesterday, February 23, we remembered the victims of the Roma murder: it was eleven years ago that Robika Csorba, who was then five years old, became the victim of one of his six-year-old sisters and fathers. The attacks had a total of six fatalities and countless casualties, ten attacks on our innocent Roma compatriots with Molotov cocktails and firearms. In 2008-2009, Hungary was shaken by a series of extreme right-wing terrors, but not only in the late 2000s, but also in the early '90s, we had to witness the same: in 1992, Zoltán Danyi, the young Roma, who wasn't hurting anyone, was beaten and kicked to death by neo-Nazis. On Saturday, we inaugurated his memorial plaque in Salgótarján. These murders, these acts of terrorism, were not without precedent, the murderous acts were always preceded by murderous words: the inciting articles against Hungarian gypsies, inciting speeches, the marching of extreme right-wing paramilitary forces. And today, once again, right-wing paramilitary forces marching on gypsy settlements, today we can read murderous words again in the newspaper, and we need to hear murderous words in Parliament as well. A week ago, two MEPs, a fidesz far-right and a far-right representative of the neo-Nazi party created by Fidesz have committed an instigation against the community, and on behalf of the Dialogue, I therefore press charges against them, because a limit must be drawn: the logic of racial hatred, the Nazi speech, is no place in the Hungarian Parliament, we must stop the incitement of the various social groups against each other. Once the Gypsy Hungarians, sometimes the women, once the Jews, sometimes the NGOs, once the LGBTQ-people, sometimes the left-wing ones are the target. Yesterday, Hungarian society showed that we cannot be turned against each other. On the anniversary of the Roma killings, many thousands of Hungarian citizens, the color of civil society organisations, trade unions, opposition parties and movements, greens and purples, reds and reds together stood up for the Gypsies attacked by Fidesz, because we know where hatred leads, where exclusion, racial segregation, and increasingly harsh discrimination. When extremist groups and lone madmen took the policy of racial hatred, it also ended with fear, blood and death, but when the state became a racist, it ended with the Holocaust, the Soah and Porejamos: six million Jews and half a million Roma became victims of the rampage of racist hatred in Europe. The German Nazis and their allied Hungarian extremists are responsible for the death of 600,000 Jews and thousands of Gypsy compatriots. Well, come to your senses, Mr. Orbán. Come to your senses, congressman ladies and gentlemen. When you say "never again" every year, it means never again. When they talk about protecting European culture, they should act in the spirit of it, because it is the most important pillars of European culture: the idea of enlightenment, freedom, equality, fraternity, the lessons of the two world wars and the Holocaust, the feeling of never again and the superiority of peace. As we sing in the anthem of the European Union:. Brother will be made by all men. But if it pleases the hearts of fellow citizens on the right, then I quote from another song: "Let anything happen as long as we live and die, we are of the same blood. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Finally, you've read it!]] So let your brothers and sisters keep pushing you against the Gypsy Hungarians, because hundreds of thousands of our Roma compatriots are already living in fear! Do not support the spread of racist thought, because we know that it will lead to disaster. Do not allow the blood of innocent people to flow again in Hungary, because that blood will be on your hands! [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you for your attention.
u2020-02-24-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am always shocked to hear the words when Bence Tordai speaks on such and similar matters in Parliament, even because in these benches, when it comes to hatred, his voice is the most often used to show hate in Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I would like to point out that indeed the murders listed here by Bence Tordai are reprehensible and are a stain of shame! The time when these murders were committed, but I'm asking you, how is it possible that your allies, allies of your party, are the ones who, by the way, were almost accomplices in these murders. [[László Varju: Now, that's hatred!]] This was the case at the time, ladies and gentlemen, and you are now sitting in an alliance with organisations that even came into the National Assembly by using the symbols and the garments that you are talking about and which you are expressing in a condemning tone. [[13.10]] How do you think this contradiction between your words and your actions can be resolved in some way? You can't solve these contradictions. And what's even more unfair is that these acts, these terrible crimes, are somehow linked to events that are basically about how to lift, how to raise gypsyness. You can raise the gypsy through education. And as far as the Pearl Pata case is concerned, my esteemed colleague Bence Tordai, in the Pearl Pata case, you, your allies and the various organisations supported by George Soros [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is this about Fidesz?]] which led these people to start lawsuits that then broke the social peace that had begun to develop in this case. [[Noise in opposition benches. Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] They were just trying to make money through this. They didn't look at the interests of the people who suffered a perceived or real disadvantage. You do not remember how education could otherwise be organised for these people, and how education would help to raise this social class, the Hungarian Roma, in Hungary, and, yes, their rise will also lead through education. It is okay, my fellow Member, to consider this overall. And it can't be! to stimulate this tension, this tension must be alleviated within society. You are the ones who raised this issue, you are the ones who caused this hostility among the people. [[Bence of Turdai: Is it my turn?]] And we need to work on how to smooth this out. How do we smooth it out? How to achieve peaceful coexistence between Roma and non-Roma in Hungary [[Bence of Turdai, swinging his head, interrupts.]] ; how should we continue to support the Hungarian Roma? After all, unemployment has been reduced by half among Hungarian Roma in recent years. He's halfway there! Poverty also decreased among their groups. Dear fellow Member, These are the essential things, and these are the essential aspects. We must strive and strive for all Members of Parliament in this Parliament to reduce this tension, to give education to the Roma, and not to provoke others to pay money for things where there is no work. In Hungary, money basically comes with the job. We build such a society in Hungary. And if a person suffers injury, he must be given back this injury in the area where he suffered. This is the area of education; and do not interfere with the establishment of this agreement through the various organisations. The point is that we can give education and raise the Hungarian Roma population through good education. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Bence of Turdai: Shame!]]
u2020-02-24-4	Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, also submitted a statement before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, those who have advocated the resolution of the climate crisis have received cold and warm from pro-government politicians; from the point of view that this is a Bolshevist trick, the climate crisis does not exist because there has always been and always will be climate change. This is why the Government's 180-degree turn in climate change and climate protection is surprising, and the announced action plan is also surprising. However, with the measures announced, if these are implemented, we will still be light-years away from achieving carbon neutrality in 2050. But that's not the only problem with the action plan that you're late and few. The government has a huge credibility deficit in the field of environmental and nature protection. Over the last ten years, Fidesz's policy has caused huge environmental and natural damage, and the government's economic policy has also reduced our climate change outlook in recent years, with CO2 emissions rising by more than 5 percent a year since 2014. The government sacrificed everything on the altars of faulty and forced investments, large-scale land estates and multinationals. Minister Szijjártó specifically defended the German automotive industry in Brussels. In recent years, it has been almost unlimited to use the green surface for investment purposes; they have never considered that these developments should be directed to brown fields. In the settlements the tree was cut uncounted, and air pollution has increased dramatically in recent years. Today in Hungary nearly 15,000 people die prematurely because of air pollution and cause respiratory disease to hundreds of thousands of people. The Prime Minister removed the independent Ministry of the Environment in 2010 for a reason, destroyed the institutional system of environmental protection, weakened the authorities, because this was not necessary. Environmental and nature protection was just a distraction, a luxury item. The government didn't create this plan for nothing. Their public opinion researchers have determined that people's sensitivity to environmental and nature protection has also increased in Hungary. With this action plan, you're basically just trying to get votes and paint yourself green. I would like to draw attention to some items, first of all, to the elimination of illegal landfills. You should have done this a long time ago, as it is subject to legislation. Technically, all we had to do was enforce the law. But it is also important to know that the elimination of illegal landfills will not substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions. You also put the release of disposable plastics on the agenda when it became a joint decision in the European Union. The Prime Minister has also promised to regulate multi-enterprises, but we also know that billions have been invested in their support in recent years. The construction of six times the solar power plant capacity is important, but there is little wind power plant capacity among renewables. The expensive and dangerous, polluting, and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant-based energy mix will never be environmentally friendly and green. Planting a tree is a noble matter, we all know that, but we also need to see that a million trees are not yet forested. And even if these 1 million trees are planted, this will not provide services that would substantially reduce the dangers of climate change. The expected measures, which have a significant impact on our situation, have not been announced; we were very much looking forward to it. [[13.20]] Dear House, Climate protection, the living environment, our natural values and the preservation of our resources are one of the greatest challenges of our time. If the government is even a little serious about taking meaningful steps, then we should first have a substantive debate about this here in Parliament, look at the assessment of the situation, and take together the tasks ahead. It should also be stated that if the government were serious about taking meaningful steps, it should have initiated social consultations on these issues. Dear House, It's not enough to announce pretense.
u2020-02-24-6	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think we can and can continue to agree that the protection of our environment, the protection of the created world, the proper adaptation to climate change is a public matter, and it is in the common interest of all of us. But in that, we seem to disagree that it is worth taking such an important task together to the level of daily political battles, or not. We don't think it's worth it. It is not worth it because, as I said, the protection of the created world and the future of our children must not be put at risk because of long and untidy debates. Plus, with regard to climate protection, you're the ones who initiated a debate day, which you didn't come to. It is difficult to argue if the originator of the debate does not participate deliberately. Therefore, given the exact situation, the government has decided that, in addition to its actions to protect the environment, further decisive action is needed and will undertake them and will confirm its commitment to the case by further concrete actions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government is acting because it has been authorized to do so. You will act, you will rename your party, and you will think that you have already taken a step forward. This is a positive action, but that is not what we think should be the focus. And if you have already questioned the results, honourable Member, let me draw your attention to the fact that since 2010, greenhouse gas emissions per unit of GDP have decreased by around 24 percent. That in itself is a great achievement. In addition, if we look at the figures for 2018 just to see the facts; data for 2019 are not yet available, we can see that GDP has increased by nearly 5 percent while greenhouse gas emissions in Hungary have also decreased in net terms. I consider this to be a result, and I would urge you to consider it a result, to be proud of it together. Perhaps the LMP, the LMP-Greens, should at last decide in a responsible manner that will no longer hinder, but will support, both in Hungary and in the European Union, the exploitation of nuclear power, because we all know that, as a green party, you could be proud of the fact that without nuclear power, there is no way for us to achieve the goals set together, so that Europe and Hungary can become carbon neutral regions by 2050. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the announcement of his speech before today's agenda, it was stated that it was marked as a reason for speaking that environmental challenges would increasingly become a serious issue of environmental security and national strategy, to which an appropriate response must be given. I agree with you on that. Let me get this straight. However, they continue to ensure consistency with the challenges and their systemic approach, the correct setting of priorities and the effective application of the instrument system. I think, however, that these are no longer solutions, these are uninterpretable words and sentences, which contain nothing concrete. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Fidesz-KDNP government is acting. The protection of the created world must not be spoken of, but taken. In this spirit, we have created the climate protection strategy, which is an appropriate basis for the measures taken and to be taken so far to protect our environment. This and other strategies have been personally reported by Minister Palkovic at your meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development. At the time, there was no great opposition from the opposition, there was considerable criticism of the exception, you were not told, the vast majority of opposition representatives did not appear, substantive comments and questions were expressed solely from the civil side, which I think we have managed to give proper answers to. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán set out the government's climate protection objectives for the near future in his annual speech. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I understand it, we agree that this climate and nature conservation action plan includes not only important measures related to climate change, but also important measures related to nature conservation, such as the strict action you have mentioned against illegal landfills. We have decided and decided that we will continue to act more rigorously and more effectively against them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-8	Next up is DK's representative, László Varju.
u2020-02-24-9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, In my speech on Thursday, I was talking about how pensioners are being tricked. I would now like to point out that this scam on your part is far from new, on the contrary, it has always been a popular method, it is ongoing. Technically, it's what Master Rodolfo said: just watch my hands, because I'm cheating anyway, but he did this opportunity a little more fun. Let us start by saying that according to the Horn-government law, pensions should have been increased by 19 percent in 1999. However, you have only raised by nine percent, going to the government. If they do the math, that means they took a month's pension from pensioners, and ten years later, we were accused of it. This scam has since been further developed, and they have become a proven method for the sophisticated and propaganda-supported rumors about us. We're being charged with what you're about to do. They did the same in 2010. It is a fact that we committed the annual increase in pensions, besides inflation, to raising average earnings, and then the Bajnai government suspended this for the benefit of pensioners during the crisis, because it was foreseen that pensions would not even follow inflation for two years. You, on the other hand, have immediately finalised this and have been fooling people for ten years. By proclaiming that they would maintain the purchasing value of pensions, they took action not to increase pensions beyond inflation in any year. It was written in stone that once a pensioner could no longer benefit from the country's economic success. That is why we have tabled a 4 percent bill of the Democratic Coalition, because you are breaking even your own laws, and as a third blow, pensions are not raised annually by the foreseeable rate of inflation. [[13.30]] Pensions are unstoppable: while their average value at the change of government has reached two thirds of the average salary, it is now less than half of it. The pensioners have been double-crossed as early as 2012: as the Constitutional Court stated, they have unconstitutionally reduced the provision of disabled pensioners. A year ago, the deadline for taking care of this was over, and the law should have been amended, but nothing has happened since. I'm asking you, don't you consider any court-martial to be valid? They double-crossed pre-age retirees. In fact, the Hungarian State has concluded a contract with those who carry out particularly difficult or dangerous work, such as miners, members of the armed body and others, who took up work in the hope of a pension allowance, and this contract has been unilaterally terminated by misuse of their power. In a particularly serious situation, of course, a state can do this, but the trick here was that while abroad the crisis management of their predecessors was praised and declared effective, the situation here was lied to so grave that such a drastic measure was justified. And eventually, pensioners in the nursing home were fooled, whose remuneration was increased under the radar, without being announced. Of course, I know that as soon as I'm finished, someone will step out of the government and tell me that: but you took a month's pension from pensioners. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes! That's right. Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Well, the fact is that the 13th month's pension, which we introduced by the way, we were forced to stop for crisis management, but for you ten years wasn't enough to reinstate all of this. However, it was clear from the data of the KSH that the last governments in the Republic increased the purchasing value of average pensions by 29 percent between 2002 and 2010, while you, by the way, were only 19 percent in eight years, and pensioners were much better off under our governance than you. But until the change takes place, it is right to expect them to do at least their own tasks. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Stop lying, and don't let pensions get worthless. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-02-24-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Mr. Congressman, You've been giving me some very daring ideas here. [[Gergely Harvester: Justice! László Varju: Confrontation!]] I think that if we ask a Hungarian pensioner what comes to his mind about the Horn government, on the one hand, he will remember the Bokros package, which has damaged his health or his standard of living, on the other hand, that it was the first attempt to tax pensions. And that, honourable Member, during the Bajnai government, you have abolished the increase in pensions for pensioners and have taken a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners for the benefit of pensioners. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Here we are!]] I don't think even at the end of the carnival, I don't think someone believes these sentences that you did this for the benefit of the retired. Of course, we remember the sentences of Gordon Bajnai during the Gyurcsány-Bajna period between 2006 and 2010, when Gordon Bajnai said that he would take a month's pension from pensioners now so that he wouldn't have to take two months' pension from pensioners later. This reminds me of János Kádár that he could have taken two months' pension from Bajnai Gordon, but because he was very kind to people, he took only one month's pension from them. However, there would have been some kind of IMF study or a letter from the world that would have suggested higher restrictions. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Because your policy, honourable Member, has always been based on austerity: pensioners have been deprived of a month's pension, a month's wages have been taken from those working in the public sector, and you have introduced tuition fees to students so that they can't continue to learn from those whose family can't afford to pay tuition; and there was a hospital allowance and a visitation fee, which, regardless of age, would have been shoved into everyone's necks. Honourable Member, this is what you have done. He mentioned pre-age pensions. Have you ever visited the statements of the politicians of your own party from around 2006 or from the years before or after that, what Ferenc Gyurcsány said about early retirements, what Erika Szűcs said about early retirements? You would not recognize, honourable Member, an ordinary voter, that what you are now saying and what they said in 2006 are as if they were not the same people, and the same political formations did not do it, the same people who did it here in Parliament, you, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and every representative of the left-wing liberal political forces stood up here in Parliament, and each said yes to take away a month's pension from Hungarian pensioners. Neither before nor after that in Hungary, in the days following the regime change, a government did not do this. There have been difficult economic periods, but it was not such that the multi-company companies that operated public services in Hungary guaranteed 8 percent profit in those years as a result of the privatisation of the Horn government. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar presents his seven fingers.]] that year they were able to take the 8 percent profit out of the country, but they took it from Hungarian pensioners! A month's pension, Your Honour. Where else is a government like this that tells its own pensioners to pull their belts in? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Here it is!]] But you're telling foreign companies that own their utility companies to collect the same amount of profits and get them out of the country the same way? It shows who was important to you: foreign companies were important at the time, so they had no restrictions; pensioners were not important, so there was austerity. And that hasn't changed, either before or after, your priorities haven't changed. So when either Gyula Horn, Ferenc Gyurcsány, or Gordon Bajnai was Prime Minister of Hungary, pensioners were always wrong, and the restrictions always somehow caught up with them, even though by 2010 you left a deficit of nearly HUF 400 billion in the pension fund. Honourable Congressman, You said that pensions should have been calculated on the basis of a different pension calculation method. Well, in the years after 2010, you would have pulled 5 thousand forints from an average pensioner's pocket, which means that all pensioners would have been reduced by 60,000 forints a year. It is also important to mention that you, the representatives of opposition parties here in Parliament, have not even voted for 40. In contrast, during the period of Fidesz-KDNP, the Hungarian economy was able to find itself, which was also an advantage for pensioners, since it was possible to pay a pension premium for 12, then 18 thousand forints, so it was not a reduction in pension value like you, but a pension premium, and we spent 52 billion forints on it last year. And you were forced to admit it, even though in your speeches last week, you denied that the purchasing value of pensions has increased in recent years. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Not only is the nominal value of 38 percent, but also the value of the buyer above 10 percent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-12	It is now up to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP. I give you the floor.
u2020-02-24-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Then let's pick up where we left off, see if he'll answer any new questions I've asked. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: If you ask a new question!]] In recent years, the Orbán government has dramatically increased poverty in two social groups: workers, workers and pensioners. There has been a drastic increase in the number of people below the poverty line in both social groups. Older people don't owe much to the government, so to speak: there are many things that the government owes to pensioners. Two things are important for the elderly: ensuring their livelihoods and their health, namely health care. Now these two are in grave danger. The pension increase at the beginning of this year has been cancelled again, even for inflation. Even the central bank calculated a 3.4 percent increase, and the government gave 2.8 percent increase in pension, although we can talk about stealing here as well, stealing from Hungarian pensioners. Then came the shock: according to KSH, inflation was almost 5 percent in January, and even if you look at prices, food, services, or when you talk about petrol on average, more than 8 percent. Of course, today, it is the most difficult for the retirement population to pay for this, and when we talk about food prices, we can say that today the government is placing the biggest burden on pensioners. If the government does not act in spite of the fact that all those involved expect it to do so, then pensioners can wait until November again and they will lend to the government for ten months. Do you understand, fellow Members? Pensioners lend loans to the Hungarian government. You understand that's not okay, right? [[13.40]] One of the biggest problems is that the Orbán government has linked the annual increase in pensions to a change in inflation alone, eliminating the possibility that, in addition to prices, wage changes also have a role to play in increasing pensions. Wage increases have led to an increasing gap between active and pensioners. Of course, Bence Rétvári never talks about it. The government's retirement technique is a scam of the century anyway. That's all that means is the subsequent follow-up to the deterioration of money. In Hungarian, who lived on few pensions last year, Viktor Orbán guarantees that he will make a small living again this year, and there will be no more for him next year; not to mention the radical break from wages. That is why the Hungarian Socialist Party and several civil society organisations, several opposition parties, demand that they return to the Swiss indexation. You can say anything, Secretary of State, that's what several professional organizations are demanding right now. Bence Rétvári doesn't even talk about the increasing poverty of pensioners. Even though he talks about the value of pensions, the income poverty of the elderly has doubled over the past ten years. In particular, the poverty of women over the age of 65 has increased. We know very well that after they become widows, the proportion of the poor among pensioners is increasing tremendously. This is what the latest KSH statistics are about: the rate of poverty for pensioners is 11 percent, which is more than twice the number of people in 2010. In recent years, the government has tried to please pensioners with various vouchers, as if to solve their daily problems. You didn't care that billions were thrown out of the window just by sending vouchers to tens of thousands of pension recipients living abroad that couldn't be used anywhere else, all for hundreds of millions of forints. Last autumn's action also revealed that 40,000 pensioners living abroad received a return certificate only in Hungary. They were mailed to pensioners living abroad for HUF 361 million, and the postage cost was HUF 84 million. Wouldn't you, Secretary of State, admit that this is a felony? Who's gonna answer for this? Do you take responsibility, or does Viktor Orbán take responsibility? It is unacceptable for the government to humiliate pensioners with different vouchers. This is neither fair nor fair, because the aid is limited to use and, of course, it will never be included in the pension. You admit that, don't you, Mr. Secretary? And joining the solo before me: when will you answer that, from those disabled pensioners, the nearly 200,000 disabled pensioners who have been humiliated, when will you apologize, and when will you finally comply with the laws that apply to all Hungarian citizens? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-02-24-14	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-02-24-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You seem to have a very bad conscience about pensioners from your own period of government, so you try to make a difference in different ways. But, honourable Member, old people do not forget what you did to them when you were on the government, no matter how much you try to sugarcoat it. And what is completely incomprehensible is that here in Parliament, you are attacking the vouchers and the Elisabeth vouchers. You generally see pension cuts, unfortunately, we also see support in Parliament and the 15th increase in fees, and when a government offers the elderly people, the pensioners, a certificate or a certificate for Elisabeth, there are different reasons why these forms of support should not be provided to older people in Parliament. I can only repeat what I said to Congressman Varju, which seems to be the role of the MSZP to echo what DK says, and it seems that there are those who are getting used to it here in Parliament, so I can only tell you what I said to Congressman Varju: 5 thousand forints per month and 60,000 forints per year would have been pulled out of the pocket of pensioners after 2010. You have been throwing numbers here, Madam honourable Member, and I would like to put this right, because you have been trying to create a very wrong impression. You talked about poverty indicators for elderly people over 65 years of age. I have brought these, and not only the data of the KSH, but also the data of Eurostat, honourable Member, which you have failed to say in your own number because it did not fit the reality that you were trying to paint here at the Parliament meeting. The proportion of elderly people exposed to poverty or social exclusion was 19 percent at the end of your governance, which has now decreased to 14.5 percent. The proportion of people exposed to severe material deprivation, i.e. those who cannot bear a sudden cost, let us say, the washing machine, can't fix it, or they can't go away for a week, or they can't buy meat dishes every two days, who are affected by several of these dimensions, the proportion of which, Madam honourable Member, at the end of your governance was 16.2 percent according to Eurostat. 16.2 percent! Now it's 6 percent. I say to you, as I say to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the proportion of these has decreased from 16.2 to 6 percent. I repeat this because while you were talking, you didn't hear that, and don't say that untruth again, don't put yourself in such an awkward position, so that it's so easy to disprove what you're saying. Third, you talked about relative income poverty, and you said that it rose to 10 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You forgot to tell me one thing: what is the average value of this in the European Union? 15.1 percent. Compared to this, do you think the Hungarian value of around 10 percent is bad? The lowest value is in the EU as a whole, in other countries: it is around 7 percent of France, Slovakia and 9 percent of Greece, Denmark and Luxembourg, and after that we are Hungarians. Do you think that this is a bad ranking for a more than 15 per cent of the EU average, with a total of five countries ahead of us? Do you think this is not a good situation for Hungary? [[Harvesting Gerely: They don't give parizers at the store for a percentage!]] Although, according to Eurostat, in each EU security and welfare statement, we could be among the first five to six! Fortunately, we are here, Madam honourable Member, which is why I think that the safety of pensioners and pensions is much greater than at your time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have also talked about those who have changed their ability to work and who have received some kind of social benefit before. We were able to move forward in their position, since their employment level was below 20 percent, and now it's over 40 percent. They don't have to make a living on welfare, they don't have to make a living on a pension, they have to get a job, they have to pay a job, they have to pay a job. [[Gergely Harvestó: Pension is not a benefit!]] Which means a much greater life security for them. Since Gyula Horn, it has been obvious that the political goal has been to ensure that as many people as possible live on aid, that as many people as possible are exposed to the state's decisions, and that they have tried to expand their own electoral camp, that as many people as possible have been introduced into the social assistance system, and that they have tried to increase and keep their electoral camp together by keeping them dependent. We trust and love to help people who can stand on their own feet, who can support themselves on their own salary, help those who do not have to live on social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It was your party that reduced pensions in Hungary; they stood proudly here in Parliament, and they all voted in favour of taking the 13th month pension, in Hungarian, a month's pension was taken from the pockets of every Hungarian pensioner. It seems that this sin, even in your conscience, if such a word exists, has a very long shadow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-16	On behalf of Jobbik, Mr László György Lukács is next. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is often criticism here in the House, but also outside the House, that, in addition to Jobbik's national values, and in addition to the interests that affect Hungary's security, the security of people and its everyday life, it is also regularly, whether in association with opposition parties or with other parties. In so many ways, criticism may be justified [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you in contact with foreign parties?]] We can accept critical voices in so far as this concerns the fact that your ten-year government must really be united, because it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. But, fellow Members, and, above all, my fellow members of the Government, to understand the substance of the problem, the Jobbik is willing to work together in other ways, and in cases where people need to be protected, when the Hungarian population, its financial security and its health must be ensured, he is willing to rise above the party policy that you do not usually rise above. [[13.50]] One of the news of the last day, and even the last few days, is that the situation in northern Italy has increased as regards the coronal virus epidemic. It's safe to say there's nothing to worry about, there's no panic. And it is very important to say here, and I want you to understand this: this, if it continues, the government must take serious measures. And I want you to understand that in these serious measures, you can count on the support of Jobbik. Because Jobbik in matters where the safety of Hungarian people, the health of Hungarian people are at stake, doesn't matter with which parties, if the government is to be supported, it will support the government in order to protect people. It should also be said, ladies and gentlemen, that there is, however, criticism that needs to be formulated. In addition to ensuring the safety of Hungarians in the first place, it is important to inform them. In recent times, we can be sure: the government is still indebted to inform people as quickly as possible, in all circumstances, especially when measures are already in place to limit personal freedom in our neighbourhood, and it is very likely that travel or departure from there is now an obstacle. The Hungarian people want you to invest 100 billion in government communication, not on your own subjects, but on such topics, for example. Lighten up on that, and this is the question of the simple Hungarian man, and it is in our interest to clarify whether the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister's Office clears this: Hungary has the capacity to say that if the epidemic breaks out and spreads to Hungary, and this is where the epidemic continues, the general medical system or the hospital system is ready to go, to whom it is necessary to turn, and not only to get an answer on a telephone number, but to tell them what to do, because they do not have a telephone number to call in this case, and if they happen to know about it, then they will receive some information. At a time when there may be a need to prepare in Hungary, and there is no need to cause panic, and there is no need to overthink it, but if you have to prepare for what was the scenario in Italy, that people, cities and regions will be quarantined, then you must know what can be done, what is being provided, what is appropriate medicine, and the supply system is ready for their care and for the protection of people. So we propose, and Jobbik will be a partner, that, in addition to the widest, most transparent and fastest communication, the government, the ministries and even the Parliament should ensure that information is made available to everyone. For our part, Jobbik has also set up its own committee on this, which includes the chairman of the National Security Committee, health professionals, health professionals and communication professionals, precisely so that if we have to and see that the government wants to act, then all the support can be added. We don't want you to panic, we want the government to take action as precisely as possible, as professionally as possible, as quickly as possible. And as I said at the beginning, as Jobbik has so far seen and seen the lives of the people, the safety of the people, when the border needed the defence, Jobbik ensured that when the Btk. had to be modified to protect the people, Jobbik added the majority. So, in order to protect the Hungarian people and guarantee the greatest possible security, we will support and give the government our options, but first answer the questions that the Hungarian supply system is suitable for this, where people must turn, be worried [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we recommend that their communication tools and opportunities be used to do so, because, unfortunately, they have not been able to do so lately. We're waiting for the Akcurate, the fast, the professional action, because...
u2020-02-24-18	Congressman, your time is up.
u2020-02-24-19	...that's all we can help you with. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-20	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2020-02-24-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In accordance with the Government's decision, the operational staff responsible for the control of coronal virus infection will continue to monitor the verified health and epidemiological data on coronal virus infection. Honourable Congressman, The operational staff met again this morning, and a press conference was held by Director General Károly Papp and national chief of staff Müller Cecília. In view of the unexpectedly increased cases of coronal viral infection in the provinces of Northern Italy, the operational staff also requested information from the Italian authorities on the epidemiological situation while extending the cross-border health screening to those from Northern Italy. In order to protect the citizens of Hungary, an action plan of 28 points for the effective organisation of justified health and epidemiological measures and coordination of the activities of public bodies is being implemented in a scheduled manner. Gradually, the hygiene of health institutions is monitored, and their treatment with disinfectant is ongoing. We have launched two free green numbers to inform the public, and with the help of written and electronic media, we will provide up-to-date information to everyone, Congressman. Based on all this, I can tell you that the government is handling it in accordance with its weight and the existing danger and is prepared in time for the challenges of the coronal virus situation. Until this moment, the authorities do not know about the infection of a Hungarian citizen. Mr President, Mr President, I believe that this information speaks for itself, but at the same time, due to the epidemic in Northern Italy, a new procedure will be established on the basis of the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Control in order to preserve Hungary's freedom of virus. The temperature measurement was extended to the airport in Debrecen. Mr President, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, at today's press conference, Müller Cecília, a national chief of staff, asked everyone who comes home from an infected area and experiences flu symptoms, to consult a doctor, not to go to a doctor's office, but to contact their doctor by telephone, the national chief of staff stressed. Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary considers the health and health of Hungarian people to be a national issue, it will do everything in its power to ensure that the virus freedom continues to be maintained, and therefore, any support that serves this purpose, wherever it comes from, we will accept it with gratitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-22	Next up is KDNP representative László Földi. I give you the floor, please.
u2020-02-24-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who builds a path builds a future and at the same time proves that he believes in it in the future, and this way represents not only the future but also the present. As a Member of Parliament, my first speech in 2010 was about the M4, and it was entitled M4, the way of the future. However, the road not only leads from one place to another and not only makes transport safer and faster, but also a sign that its builders manage well with our common resources. The road also sends a message that the builders welcome investors, businesses that find a home here, take advantage of the opportunities they offer and provide meaningful, well-paid, long-term work for local citizens. In the end, the road also symbolizes that we are bound together by more than we are separated. Ladies and gentlemen, The construction of the first long section of the M4 motorway was an old goal for the Cegléd and South Pest counties, but in the preparation and construction of this road, I think it is very important that we have been able to act together with my fellow Members from Pest County and colleagues from Szolnok County in order to build the M4 road and reach Törökszentmiklós by 22. On behalf of all the inhabitants and businesses in the region, I thank the government, as a Member of Parliament, for providing domestic funding for this priority investment. We hope that the attractiveness and attractiveness of the region will increase, and the quality of life of the people living here will significantly improve. At this point, please allow me to say a few words about an unfair and harmful phenomenon, whose justified criticism has long been desired from me. The honourable opposition and its press like to make fun of the inauguration ceremony of road constructions and one of its traditional acts, the ribbon cutting. [[Gergely Harvester: It's not a coincidence!]] This is incomprehensible to me, since it is not a custom introduced by our political community, but an important and symbolic occasion, which has not only a function of celebration but also an information function. [[14.00]] I understand that if we wear hats, it is also a problem, and if we don't, it is also a problem, but cutting ribbons at the time of any government's regency is a natural part of our profession, so I highly recommend that the energies wasted on this purpose be used for much more useful purposes in the future. It is an investment in which the left-wing government has placed extraordinary performance on the table, but in this connection it is regrettable that they have shown much less diligence only in terms of promises, in the field of action. Ladies and gentlemen, The investment I am speaking about, the construction of the M4 road to Cegléd, affects the lives of a total of 80,000 citizens directly, but it is also crucial for the Tápiómente region, and I therefore respectfully request further support for the important addition of the project. In the case of the M4 towards Abony, the possibility of driving on the M4 road in node 3119 has not yet been resolved, but it is necessary. I would also like to point out that the municipality of Abony has joined this initiative in order to protect the city from environmental and traffic pressures and the region of Tápiómente, whose inhabitants and businesses also require this node. I express my hope, the hope of all local citizens, that regional road construction will remain a government priority, and that the road will reach Abony, Szolnok and, ultimately, the border. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-24	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will respond. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is in our common interest that Hungary has a secure and modern road network that transport is the 21st. Make it as fast and comfortable as possible, according to the expectations of the century. In the last year more than 560 billion forints of road construction and development have been completed. This is definitely a record and shows the performance of the Hungarian economy. In the period 2016-2024 we plan to spend almost 5000 billion on road and rail development. Honourable Congressman, A strong element of the ambitious government goals of 2030 is the further development of transport, which has a major impact both on the quality of life of Hungarian families and on the development of the Hungarian economy. Our aim is to reach all cities with county rights with a high service-quality road network in 17 settlements, and the task of the following years is to turn cities with county rights, which are still only available on the main road, into the four-track road section of the motorway network. One of the main goals is to drive motorways and highways to the national borders, thereby turning them all into the international motorway network. In 2010, only three four-track roads reached the border, and now we can talk about double that. We are improving the availability of technological and industrial centres, which also has a significant economic development impact. The existing road network is constantly being developed, as our aim is to make a four-track section of the road available from any settlement in the country within 30 minutes. Honourable Congressman, Large-scale road development is underway across the country. The road programme currently includes the construction or preparation of the planned road development of some HUF 3200 billion. A total of 1,000 kilometres of new and improved road sections will be created throughout the country. With motorways and motorways planned to be implemented in the road programme, the total length of the Hungarian motorway network increases over 2,000 kilometres. The accessibility of the areas affected by road development, improved road safety, reduced travel times and rising level of road transport services are all common successes. Thanks to the new construction of motorways and bypass roads, transit traffic is less burdensome for urban roads and contributes to the development of more liveable and healthier settlements. Honourable Congressman, All sections of the M4 motorway already transferred, currently under construction and preparation, contribute to achieving our goals. The development of the M4 motorway will help connect Szolnok to the fast-track network and provide another safe and fast road connection to Transylvania and Romania. With the construction of the section between M4 Üllő and Cegléd, certain settlements in the region, such as Monor, Monorierdő and Pilis, are exempt from the transit traffic and its adverse effects, and Szolnok is approaching Budapest. This summer, we're gonna hand over the sequel to Abony. Even this year there will be a section between the new village of Berettyó and the border, creating the second fast-track link to Transylvania. In order to complete the construction of the M4 up to the Romanian border, work is ongoing or under preparation throughout the motorway. Between Abony and Törökszentmiklós, between the construction, between Törökszentmiklós and Berettyóújfalu, preparatory tasks are currently taking place. It can be seen from the above that the government is particularly concerned with the development of the M4 motorway and is doing everything possible to achieve it successfully. In the area of the development of public services, including the modernisation and expansion of the road network, we are working to make Hungary one of the five most vibrant and competitive countries in Europe by 2030. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-26	The last day's speech before the last agenda will take place from Fidesz, and I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai.
u2020-02-24-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week's parliamentary debate on prison business clearly proved that the left was on the side of the prison business. The left-wing parties cover the Balliberal and Soros network lawyers involved in the prison business, in which there is nothing surprising, since one of the biggest winners of the prison business is the Hungarian György lawyer who started as joint candidate for the MSZP-Party speech in the 2018 parliamentary elections with half a billion forints, and currently advises Mayor Gergely Christmas. It was therefore understandable that the Dialogue did not even participate in the debate and gave its time frame to the MSZP. In the parliamentary debate, opposition speakers were delirious rather than speaking out loud, and they were not expressing an opinion about reality. The reality is that lawyers from the left-wing liberal and the Soros network have filed nearly 12,000 indemnification lawsuits against the Hungarian state. The state paid nearly HUF 9 billion to criminals and lawyers, and 70 percent of the amount paid landed on legal deposit accounts. Prison business is clearly a violation of law, damages the state, destroys public trust in justice, and violates people's sense of justice. The situation in Europe has been that for decision-makers the rights of violent criminals have become more important than the rights of law-abiding people. It is unacceptable that murderers such as the Italian lynchmen, for 6 million forints, the Battonyan Monsters received 2 million forints, and the Burkas received 45 million forints due to their successful indemnification lawsuit, despite the fact that they committed an incredibly serious, life-threatening crime. In these damages cases, legal representation is not mandatory, and even in 2015, the Helsinki Commission provided a sample of earnings in prisons that the inmates were able to turn directly to the court. Lawyers from the Balliberal and Soros Network have settled on prisoners and prisoners and have developed prison business into an industry. Ladies and gentlemen, People can also comment on this in the context of the national consultation launched in March, decide whether they prefer to support or oppose the possibility of damages actions. [[14.10]] They may also say that the compensation money will be given to the prisoners or the victims. The rights and interests of victims of crime should be protected to a greater extent. A natural balance must be struck between compensation schemes for victims of crime and for prisoners. Dear House, Today, in Hungary, it is necessary to make it clear and clear to everyone that criminals are not rewarded by millions, but by punishment. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-28	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It was indeed instructive to debate the prison congestion law, and it was also in itself that when we had to opt out of order to put it on the agenda as soon as possible, opposition factions withdrew and did not vote in favour of this motion. So their attitude is fully demonstrated by this move. How did we get here? Hungary has been a member of the European Convention on Human Rights since 1993. This is an important fact, because the Court of Strasbourg's judgments by which it enforced domestic legislation go back entirely to this convention. Unfortunately, Hungarian prison conditions were no better than in the early 1990s, but this subject was not the subject of judicial decisions until 2010, only after the Helsinki Committee, the lawyers of the Company for Freedom Rights, launched these lawsuits in Strasbourg, including, of course, the Hungarian György quoted by you [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , this area has become a hit topic, and there have been virtually over 6,000 cases out in Strasbourg that the Strasbourg court has stated that if we do not bring in internal regulation, it will set a lump sum of EUR 10 000 in these cases without a substantive examination. That is why, in 2016, we presented a proposal to this House, in which, of course, we also discussed the possibility of offering victim compensation, and this House adopted this regulation. However, no one expected this kind of compensation scheme, the amount of compensation for damages, to be less than 13 per cent. In fact, the circles of lawyers that carried these cases in Strasbourg, using domestic opportunities, have actually collected hundreds of cases per lawyer. It was also very instructive that one of the law firms, which was known to have taken most of the cases, was tried in the debate to make it look like a law firm near the government, although the situation is the other way around, as my colleague Gyula Budai pointed out in the debate. So, on the opposition side, there is also a campaign, so to speak, without any facts, on this issue, as if this business were related to us, and not to their lawyers, or to György Magyar, who started in the colours of MSZP and Dialogue in the parliamentary elections with their support. So we're dealing with a very strange situation. Once we have noticed that the amount of compensation paid has indeed reached this level of almost ten billion, and it is clear that they do not land in the place where they should be, we are suspending this kind of opportunity in this law, and in the national consultation we are asking the voters' opinion on what solutions they would use in this case. I very much hope that, at the end of the consultation, and within the deadline set, the Hungarian Parliament will be able to reach a solution that also responds to the sense of social justice, but it will not revive the kind of foreign and Strasbourg damages and compensation claims that have affected the country before. It has been very instructive, by the way, last week's news in the press that, on the basis of a French analysis, the links between the Strasbourg court and the Soros organisations have been demonstrated through the people who have recently been appointed to various positions of responsibility or even the Council of Europe, and it is also apparent that this kind of business will not cease. It may be that if we stick to 4 square meters or 3 square meters, they will raise it to 5 square meters, because they are trying to hit Hungary with a flexible interpretation of the law, so to speak. It can also be seen that the next front is already being opened, because the length of proceedings is being delayed in Strasbourg, so this is probably something that the House will probably have to deal with soon. So the business doesn't stop. It can also be seen which organisations are stimulating it, and it can also be seen that opposition parties fully agree with these organisations. We can promise that, in accordance with the outcome of the consultation, we will be making a presentation to this House that will put an end to this situation in this matter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-30	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-02-24-31	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; László Hajdu, DK; László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Anett Bősz, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik.
u2020-02-24-32	Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The motion put forward by the President initiates the Parliament's opinion on the European Citizens' Initiative H/9282 on cohesion policy for equality of regions and the sustainability of regional cultures. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/9282/2. can also be found on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules of H/9282/2. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously accepted the departure from the house rule by 155 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today for 15 hours and 18 minutes. Dear House, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for a European Citizens' Initiative on equality and sustainability of regional cultures should be amended as such. The joint debate on the proposal for a Decision on Monday 24 February 2020 shall take place as the last item on the agenda until its closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on an exceptional proposal. The national initiated that the National Assembly would deal in exceptional proceedings with CXXVIII of 2017 on the application of legal aid and the right to register costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. Act CXXVII of 2019 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. T/9345. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate being held as the first item on tomorrow's sitting, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. The proposal for an exception is made by T/9345/1. They were able to get to know him on the IT network. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. [[14.20]] Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept T/9345? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 138 votes to 20, with six abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 17 hours and 21 minutes. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that decisions be taken at no earlier than 12:30 on Tuesday 25 February 2020. If you agree, please raise your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. A decision to amend a decision. S/9341 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2020-02-24-33	Dear Parliament, 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows:. The Parliament shall elect János Bencsik, an independent member of the committee, to the National Assembly Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2020-02-24-34	It is now time for a decision to be made again. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/9341. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The personal proposal was adopted by 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. Now, at 2:23 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:.. How much does it cost taxpayers to buy the Mátra Power Plant? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2020-02-24-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Mátra Power Plant has been at the centre of attention since last November, and it is also due to a case that is not supposed to be caused by the operation of the power plant, but by the kft, which is also owned by Lőrinc Mészáros, and it is assumed to be malfunctioning. In this matter, the investigation continues to this day, at least we hope that it will continue to this day, because there are many questions for which we have not been answered, my fellow Members and I have submitted a number of requests for data in the public interest that are either rejected by order or have not yet received written answers. Lőrinc Mészáros, Prime Minister's friend, bought the power plant some two years ago, according to experts, it was under market price, and over these two years, more than HUF 11 billion was successfully pumped out of it in the form of dividends. Turning to last year, the company already had a negative balance sheet, and that was when the great idea came from the Fenomena of Felcsút to sell this loss-making business to a good customer, namely to Hungarian taxpayers, because it was the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, who agreed to this sale; I would add that we do not know to date what amount it will be. At present, this is a win-win situation for NER, as Lőrinc Mészáros can get rid of a loss-making business for him, and the Fidesz-KDNP government will be able to initiate calls to the European Union for huge amounts of money, since the European Commission can see wonders! not so long ago allocated EUR 100 billion to modernise such fossil power plants and increase public energy efficiency. If we assume the relationship between the Fidesz-KDNP governments and the EU funds to give just one example, the reconstruction of the Budapest-Esztergom railway line, which would have initially cost HUF 25 billion, and then, thanks to a multi-annual delay, this has multiplied by five times, if we point the same at the Mátra Power Plant, then I think we will get a sum of funds that will no longer have enough resources for public funding. But I think that doesn't bother you, because the purpose of Fidesz is to make the Hungarian population, Hungarian households, as much as possible, dependent on energy from its own moonyard, not to create self-sufficient, self-sustaining households. So I ask the honourable Secretary of State how much it will cost the Hungarian taxpayers to buy this loss-making business from Lőrinc Mészáros. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How much will the planned renovation cost? From what sources do you intend to finance this and plan to sell the power plant to another NER after the renovation? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-36	Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, I would ask my fellow Members to continue to respect the three-minute time frame and ask the question when they are still inside. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry, but you may have been able to express yourself in a mood, but you are ignoring the facts and lacking a sense of responsibility for the Hungarian people. The security of the energy supply of Hungarian people, ensuring the availability of the basic energy infrastructure, is a priority issue for national strategy and national security in all sovereign countries. This is the case in Hungary, Hungary is the first one against you. In recent years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has consistently sought to re-install strategically important energy assets privatised under your comrades, socialist-liberal governments. All this has been done and done to guarantee our national sovereignty and security of energy supply. The Mátra Power Plant deserves special attention in all respects, an economic operator of both power generation and labour market importance. The Mátra Power Plant is Hungary's only significant domestic energy source, based on lignite, and is our country's second largest electricity producer in addition to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and its second most important regulatory core power plant. Today, the power plant has 2100 direct employees, and it provides the work of about ten thousand people through industrial parks built in the area, and the number of family members affected by its operation reaches 27 thousand. They are important to us, as are the people of Ozd, who are now in a difficult situation, among other things, because of the failed right-wing leadership. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] By purchasing the Mátra Power Plant, honourable Member, and its related mining rights, the Hungarian Government will continue its policy on the direct ownership of strategic energy assets by the state to ensure our energy sovereignty and security of supply. This transaction ensures that our country's only significant traditional energy reserve, Mátraalja 2.6 billion tonnes of lignite, is directly controlled by the State. Coal burning will remain at Hungary's disposal as a strategic reserve option, and this reserve can also be of key importance for future generations, as the technologies enabling the climate neutral use of lignite become marketable. The state buy-out of the Mátra power plant will help the government to effectively assist the companies in the region in solving the employment tasks related to the restructuring of the region, while guaranteeing that the use of the resources available for climate-friendly restructuring of the power plant and the region concerned can be decided primarily by local communities and national-owned energy companies and will be the winners of these resources. [[14.30]] With the purchase of Mátra Erőmű, the most important Hungarian climate protection and priority regional development project of the next decade will also begin. In the climate-friendly future of the power plant and the region concerned, modern technologies, such as renewable solar power generation, efficient gas-based cogeneration or electricity storage activities, will play a role alongside the phasing-out of lignite production. Honourable Congressman, Information shall not be disclosed until the transaction process has been completed, i.e. until the conditions for closing the sale between the counterparties have been fulfilled. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-38	I'll return the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think we should go to Ozd and ask the locals there. [[Dr. Pál Völner: In the swimming pool!]] you'd probably be in the picture with your opinion, but you're saving yourselves a lot of time, and you're usually asking people, through some well-paid activists, what do you think, let alone go there and ask them in person. So we still didn't find out how much the state would buy this for, and I would like to emphasise once again the power plant from which Lőrinc Mészáros paid a dividend of HUF 11 billion. But don't worry, I would like to reassure you all, monitor this sale, and, if necessary, we will also take the necessary legal action. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-02-24-40	Mr President, although you have just finished your answer before, thank you very much, the gross time frame has been restored, but you have not said whether you will accept the answer or not. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Of course I do not accept the answer!]] Thank you very much. He won't take the answer. I ask the House, and it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 114 votes to 45, with no abstentions. István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: -About NAT and the future of Hungarian students. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-41	Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! The amendment to the National Basic Training Plan was published on Friday, the last day of January, during the night. There was no real professional and social debate in this document. The previous work, carried out under the guidance of a prestigious academic, Valeria Csépe, academician, was practically thrown out by you, Mr. Secretary of State. However, there is no doubt that it was a more up-to-date, controversial substance in the approach and approach to the work. This one, this published NAT, is not. In my opinion, Mr. Secretary of State, the recently published National Basics is not child-centred, not XXI. It meets the expectations of the century, and I do not see in any way that it serves to prepare young Hungarians and students. This is a series of ideas that are now outdated, reflecting the pedagogical methodology of the 1960s and 1970s, in which lexical knowledge is outdated, with a slightly smaller number of hours combined with a much larger curriculum, which makes it all dense, difficult or barely acceptable. It's like they really don't feel it, Mr. Secretary, the elementary change. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Believe me, we all, no matter which faction, which party family, which side we belong to, we learned in a much more similar way than our grandfathers, great-grandfathers, as our children, our grandchildren, are studying today. And this amazing change is not taken into account in the National Basics. It is no wonder that so many professional organizations, NGOs, trade unions, textbooks, teachers' faculty, university institutes and departments, staff of all the faculties of the Hungarian universities, literary departments, renowned writers and intellectuals raise their voice against it. Let's face it, it is not that a narrow opposition group is digging around here, but that modern Hungarian public education will suffer if this approach continues to be decisive. I therefore ask the Secretary of State with respect that he understands and accepts the criticisms expressed by organisations and individuals alike. Do you accept the approach that is currently interpelling through me in the interest of a more modern national master plan? Please withdraw the NAT. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-42	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You, honourable Member, have used the wording of your interpellation in the words that it is scandalous that the only literary Nobel Prize-winning writer, Imre Kertész, is not included in the National Basic Training Plan. Honourable Member, Imre Kertész received a Nobel Prize for literature in 2002. Then, in 2003, during the time of the then government, they adopted a national basic curriculum, which did not include Imre Kertész in the National Basics. [[Intruder from the pro-government benches, whoops!]] Then the years passed, and during your government cycle, they adopted another National Master's Plan in 2007. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: What an argument!]] Well, then, in my memory, maybe it's just... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: What professional arguments!]] You were the Minister for Education. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I'm impressed!]] but in 2007 another national basic curriculum was adopted, in which Imre Kertész, a Nobel Prize winner, had not been present for half a decade at the time. [[Noise from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] The first National Basic Study Plan, which included our only Nobel Prize winner, Imre Kertész, well, this was the National Basic Study Plan adopted during the 2012 Prime Ministership of Viktor Orbán and the State Secretariat of Rózsa Hoffmann, and the framework teaching plans now adopted and to be announced include Imre Kertész, honourable Member. You say that it is scandalous that Imre Kertész is not included in the draft of the current National Basic Training Plan, although it is included in the framework curriculum. But then what do you think of your own 2003 and 2007 National Basics, in which you were also not involved? We can read it everywhere in the press: this is a sign of fascisation that Imre Kertész is not in the National Basics. But then what kind of basic curriculum were 2003 and 2007? It's also written that Nazi collaboration if someone doesn't put Imre Kertész on the National Basics Plan. But then what did you do in 2003 and what did you do in 2007? The left is separated from the left by itself after we've been called Nazi collaborators, and they called the National Basics a scandal because of what you guys left out of the National Basics two times, and in 2012, we put it in the National Basics Plan? Do you distance yourself from yourself and collaborate yourself with the left in relation to your former National Basics? Although we have seen that there is already some error here, József Nyirő and Gyula Nyírő have also embarrassed some politicians on the left, but what do they think of what they are saying about us now, while in 2014, during the time of this government, Imre Kertész received the Order of Hungarian Szent István? Honourable Congressman, You talked about the National Basics and a lot of people talk about the National Basics as if it were written by non-practicing teachers. It's as if they weren't commissioned to renew NAT by teachers who go into classrooms every day from Monday to Friday for the last five years, ten years, fifteen years, and teach students there. [[György Balla: That's the point!]] They know that students need more modern knowledge, they know that students' curriculum should be weighted differently, they know that students have mobile phones in their pockets, and they know search software. All these people are aware of. It's not a dark corner of a ministry hallway, it's not about officers with a flashlight, it's a practitioner, it's about educators moving among students every day. Their work is underestimated, honourable Member. I have one more thing to say about the public. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr President, in 2018 we posted it on the Internet in the autumn, everyone had the opportunity to comment, hundreds of organisations spoke to it, in thousands of sizes. At the time, we needed a professional opinion, less noise, now we have a political opinion, now we have more noise. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2020-02-24-44	My advice on the use of the time frame also concerns respondents. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-45	Dear Secretary of State, You're better than that professionally; I really hope you're better. Dear clapping pro-government MEPs, Imre Kertész was not included in the 2003 and 2007 national basic curriculum because there was only one author [[Interjection in the lines of the MSZP: Definitely.]] As far as we're concerned, in a national basic curriculum, they don't have to be authors, and you know that as Secretary of State. [[Intercoms.]] Imre Kertész was not involved, but there was only one author in it, because there were pedagogical professional goals in it, and we did not prescribe in the National Basics plan who to be, and therefore what you say in your reply is unfortunately unprofessional; just as unprofessional as all the things that were represented in NAT. I only told you this because your applause is meant to be a professional response. I hope I don't accept the answer.
u2020-02-24-46	I would also like to draw attention to the future that, of course, Members have the right to say a text other than written interpretation, but this may lead to certain misunderstandings, so I would advise everyone to read first what the Member is submitting and what the Secretary of State is actually responding to. Next up is Gergely Arató, a representative of DK. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties: Voting! There was no vote.]] I apologize. [[Intercoms.]] My apologies, we're about to make a decision. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] There will be a decision in which the House will decide whether or not to accept the Secretary of State's reply. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 116 votes to 45, with three abstentions. It is now up to Mr Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK, who also submitted his interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources.
u2020-02-24-47	Mr President, Dear House, I am in a position to continue where Minister Hiller has finished, who has told me why your national basic curriculum is technically pathetic. I'd like to talk to you a little bit about your relationship with professionals, your educators and the profession, because over the past few days, there have been a series of protests against the draft NAT by various professional organisations and prestigious professionals dealing with it. I won't have time to read the full list, it's in the text of the interpellation, but he expressed his disagreement, among other things, with the Civil Public Education Platform [[An intervention in the ranks of Fidesz: Oh!]] The Association of History Teachers [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Association of Hungarian Teachers, the Pécs Janus Pannonius High School, the Szent László High School in Kőbánya, the teachers of the Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc, the Berzsenyi High School, the teachers of Apáczai, the teachers and professional communities of the Pécs Janus Pannonius High School, the Hungarian Institute of Literature at the University of Kolozsvár, my fellow Members, the Hungarian Institute of Literature of the University of Kolozsvár, the Council of the Institute of the ELTE BTK Hungarian Institute of Literature and Culture Sciences, the Hungarian School of Practitioner Miklós ELTE Radnóti Gy Practitioner and Gyászium Gyászium Berznyi Dániel Pedagogóhely [[Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] , the Hungarian teaching community of the ELTE Bolyai High School Szombathely, the Institute of Language and Literature at Eszterházy Károly University, the Institute of Hungarian Language and Literature at the University of Miskolc, the BTK Institute of Language and Literature at the University of Pécs, the Institute of Hungarian Linguistic and Literature at the University of Pécs, even the government-established wall organization, according to the National Pedagogist Faculty, the introduction of the modified NAT is risky. I would not repeat the professional arguments, but rather what the government's response was. After making a serious mistake because he did not have a meaningful social debate about this NAT, because what he was doing was a completely different NAT, what was the government's response? Minister of State of Rétvári began to talk about Zsolt Bayer, the unfortunate woman of the Fidesz fist, but there was also a worthy pro-government publicist who saw a freemason conspiracy behind the protest. Dear Secretary of State, Please answer: what do you think teachers and professionals should be called who object to the failed and anti-child primary course? A) Agent Soros? B. Unlucky Panydagogus Aunts? C. Masonic Conspirators? You're serious about the 21st century. In the century, it was a fascist and arrow-friendly, anti-Semitic writer's work... [[The president's gonna turn off Gergely Arato's mic. Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-02-24-48	Once again, I give the floor to Bence of Retvári.
u2020-02-24-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'll pick up where I left off. In second place, you named the Association of History Teachers as a critic. What was criticized in the National Basics Plan by the Association of History Teachers? Point 6 of the criticism: do not call the 1956 revolution the revolution of the nation. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Also point 6: do not call the Kádár system dictatorship. What should the Kádár system be called if not dictatorship? [[Constant interruptions.]] Point 5: It is not a positive nation-consciousness that is needed, but a critical nation-consciousness. Also point 5: follow-up should not be an ideological basis in NAT. Point 3: Don't give priority to the acquisition of Hungarian historical knowledge, strong Hungarian identity and common cultural symbols in the NAT. [[Interventions in the ranks of the governing parties: Shame! It's beautiful.]] What else does the organization you quoted here say, honourable Member? 10th point: Let us not call István Dobó a hero, and let us not call all the soldiers of the end castle heroes, let us report them objectively, and then let the students decide that it is his hero who defends the Hungarian country as a finalist. [[Uproar and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But in their 6th and 3rd of February statements, they even demanded that there be more losing battles in the National Basics. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Several losing battles must be taught from Hungarian history, honourable Member. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I am not saying that all the organisations you have referred to have said such things, but to whom you have referred in second place, honourable Member, you have said such things, and indeed this organisation, whether you like it or not, has received money from the foundation of György Soros, whether you hold a press conference on this matter or not. [[Szabó Timea: So are you!]] To explore the heroic ages of Hungarian history in such a way that they are not so heroic, not so heroic, the individual characters of these eras, honourable Member. You have listed several places from which criticism of NAT has been made, which, let's say, is perfectly natural, because, obviously, against a patriotic NAT, who do not like this position, will be critical. But, honourable Member, if you look at the number of primary schools, secondary schools in Hungary and how many schools the Index and the 444 journalists have found at least one teacher who said that he did not like something in the new NAT, you will find that less than half of the schools, 4.7 percent of the schools have found a teacher or a group of teachers who are critical of this. No doubt there is; we knew there was. Not everyone applauded your NAT for this, and when I have time, I will give you examples, and it is perfectly natural that there are debates on NAT, honourable Member. But don't say it's not modern, because the people who made it were trying to make it the most modern. There is no doubt that this is a national core curriculum; it is not an international core curriculum that you would prefer. [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a national master's plan, because that's what we've been authorized by the electorate to do, to make it a strong nation-know-how. When you did the National Basics in 2003, you outsourced the task, asked the Eötvös József Free Pedagogical Society to, no, the Soros Foundation to prepare NAT with a more liberal approach than Gábor Fodor's NAT, which you accepted, you published in the New Pedagogics Review, and that was the broad consultation, and that was the broad opportunity to comment. I quote the then colleague of the Budapest Institute of Education: your NAT is threatening the possibility that students in Hungary have the same standards and knowledge at the same age. [[Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: Dictatorship!]] And there are a number of examples of what criticisms have been made of your NAT. Ours, on the other hand, is XXI. 100th-century child-centred [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It involves a noticeable reduction in teaching material and is patriotic. That's why you're attacking him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-50	I would like to ask Congressman to accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[14.50]]
u2020-02-24-51	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that I taught and graduated from a much less elegant school than you did in the past, but for a history that consists only of winning battles in Hungarian history, you would have been overthrown from history in that school as well. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]] Furthermore, I can say that neither nation consciousness, national cohesion, nor a common Hungarian future can be built on lies, nor can it be built on propaganda. The only difference was that we sat down and conducted the professional debates. As Secretary of State myself, I have had the pleasure of participating in a number of such debates. And I didn't qualify as Agent Soros or Agent Fidesz who thought otherwise. Not the patriot, Secretary of State, who can say more horse-zung, but the one who does for this country and for the future of children in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] Yeah, and I don't accept the answer, of course.
u2020-02-24-52	I figured it out. I ask this House to accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 116 votes to 24, with 20 abstentions.
u2020-02-24-53	Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. When will the Hungarian economy become central players for small businesses in Hungary? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2020-02-24-54	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Today, we are experiencing an imbalance in the Hungarian economy. With the most important support and special attention, the government almost exclusively honors the multinational and Hungarian capitalists, while the Hungarian small businesses have little concrete support beyond the colourful words of government communication. It is necessary to create a new balance in the Hungarian economy, which requires the development of a targeted and effective support system for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with sufficient resources to do so. We have been saying this for years, and it is regrettable that the government has only now felt it important, on the brink of a possible crisis, to put together a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, it can be said that it is better later than never, although it remains indebted to the concrete proposals for solutions and the resources allocated to them. At least the governance SME strategy correctly recognises the problems. But how can domestic businesses be strengthened if their economic policies are exactly counterproductive? The most skilled workforce, hundreds of thousands of young people, has already migrated abroad, and labour shortages are being tackled by means that have a negative impact on wages. It is important to know that Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises employ significantly more people, about 70 percent of Hungarian workers than foreign multinational companies, or here I could mention to you so dearly some of the companies owned by Hungarian capital banks. For this reason, and in order to achieve the economic crisis resistance and the protection of jobs, these small businesses should be supported by the state, helping them to operate innovatively, develop their own products, take them to the market, export them abroad, not only to be a multi-million vulnerable suppliers for money that they cannot sustain themselves. At a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Trade in November last year, the Minister of Foreign Affairs replied to my suggestion: "And that's why I set up a department at the Investment Promotion Agency, which specifically deals with preparing Hungarian SMEs for large companies operating in Hungary, or even larger companies, so that they can get into their supply network. That's the only solution you're looking at. This is not a solution, fellow Members. However, after the announcement of a new SME strategy, there is only one concrete measure, and this is the fact that this amount is stuffed with about HUF 2 billion of this particular export agency, HEPA, so it does not go to small businesses. Secretary of State, Hungarian SMEs deserve more than that. I ask: are you willing to substantially reduce the tax and operating plans of SMEs, and are you willing to give substantial support to the creation of jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises?
u2020-02-24-55	On behalf of Prime Minister Tamás Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry for Innovation and Technology, responsible for the subject, will answer the question. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have performed well in recent years, have taken part in economic growth and have successfully kept pace with large companies. This is the joint success of the hard work of entrepreneurs and the government's tax reduction and support programmes. Let's be proud of it together. The Hungarian Government, honourable Member, appreciates and assists small and medium-sized enterprises with all possible means. Hungarian small businesses are already central players in Hungarian economic life, because the fact is that you claim something, but the facts clearly indicate otherwise. Of course, we're getting used to that from you, that's a fact. The productivity of Hungarian SMEs, honourable Member, increased at a much faster pace between 2010 and 2018 than in other V4 countries and exceeded the EU average. The added value generated by an average small and medium-sized enterprise increased by 44 percent in 2009 compared to the end days of Balliberal governments and their export revenues by 62 percent. Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises now employ 209 thousand more people than in 2009. In recent years, the government has helped domestic-owned SMEs through tax reductions, tax incentives and support programmes, as well as by facilitating access to credit. Allow me to remind you that your former party, if there's any point in making a distinction in its governance, was 19 percent corporate tax today, that's 9 percent. The tax burden of an average medium-sized company was between 52 and 56 percent, today it is only 36 percent. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In order to overcome the competitive disadvantage of SMEs, we have introduced a specific tax on retail taxpayers and a small company tax to radically reduce tax-related costs and administrative burdens. Madam President, if I understand correctly, the main objective of the SME strategy adopted by you at the end of last year is to further strengthen and support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The document outlines a vision until 2030 and identifies important tasks for business policy. At the same time, the strategy helps to create an internationally successful, dynamic entrepreneurship circle and the development and strengthening of small businesses that provide the livelihood of many people. The strategy's priority is to create a business-friendly regulatory environment and to further simplify the tax system. Our aim is also to strengthen the innovation and digitalisation performance of SMEs, to encourage their access to finance, to promote their internationalisation and to support the generation shift that is currently a key issue in Hungary. In Hungary, the government provides support and assistance, including for SMEs, with a number of labour market programmes in order to increase the number of employees employed by businesses. For example, the "Road to the labour market" programme was implemented from nearly HUF 250 billion, and since 2015, nearly 129 thousand people have been supported through this programme. Please accept my answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and ask Mrs Márta Demeter to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-58	I don't accept it, Mr. President. Especially in the case of Secretary of State, but also in the government, we are used to the fact that you are not disturbed by the facts. With all due respect to Hungarian SMEs, they can still operate in this environment, which is here in Hungary. You're filling multinationals with money. When it comes to preventing the tax evasion of multinationals, the Hungarian government takes the side of the multinationals. And if we look at the situation of SMEs, it makes me wonder that if everything is so winged as the Secretary of State says, then how can it be that 90 percent of Hungarian businesses are small and medium-sized enterprises, 70 percent of employees work for these companies, yet they give only 50 percent of GDP in productivity. [[15.00]] So there's a serious problem there, and you can't deny it, and you have to fix it right away. And that is a separate lie that you will try to paint yourself green with the green bond: again, you want to make the Hungarian people pay for the pollution of the multinationals. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and the government's infinitely flawed economic policy.
u2020-02-24-59	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask this House to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 1 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány and Mr Olivio Kocsis-Cake, representatives of the Dialogue, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that the Secretary of State, András Tállai, will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It seems very much that it is a diversion to the honey communication, which is about Fidesz wanting to work together, wants to work with the opposition authorities, especially Budapest, because while they are talking about it, they are planning sneaky, sneaky actions in the background. This goes against the agreement that was concluded with István Tarlós, which is about not deciding on the important issues concerning Budapest over the head of the Budapest General Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, you have come up with plans that will significantly reduce local government's local industrialisation tax revenues. Depreciation by more than 10 billion out of the tax base, by increasing the deductibility of R &amp; D costs by 11 billion, by pushing the upload obligation from December to May by more than 20 billion in Budapest alone, means 40 billion a year, and by taking into account the other municipalities, Fidesz municipalities also reduce their revenue by more than 100 billion Fidesz municipalities. The fact is that Fidesz wants to carry out government tasks and help entrepreneurs with local government money. This is obviously the biggest hit on Budapest, led by Gergely Christmas, since these revenues are the largest in its proportions. But it is a mistake to believe that this will punish the municipalities, because they will not punish them, but the people who live in the area, because the municipalities will devote these revenues to the city, its citizens and the development of the settlement. For example, how should municipalities maintain high-quality, affordable local transport from reduced business tax revenues? 'Cause, uh, last time you guys changed the law on this case, you're gonna have to use the father in the first place for local transport. That's why you changed the law to make it clear. Now they're taking this money for changing the law. It's ironic. You'd better consult your own mayors, because Mayor Cser-Palkovics [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: András!]] Mayor László Papp, mayor of Debrecen, also strongly opposes this proposal. Dear Secretary of State, My questions are: why does the government want to take more resources away from local governments? If this is done, what does the government plan to compensate for these losses? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-02-24-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, the Secretary of State, András Tállai, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In my opinion, you are overreacting to this issue, not only are you overreacting, you are sending information to the public, to local governments, to local government leaders that are not real on this issue, which essentially intimidates and alarms local governments. [[Szabó Timea: Intimidating?! Interviews in the dialogue. Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] It's not like that. That this information, this study, a draft which was otherwise discussed by the Competitiveness Council, would endanger the operation of any municipality and render it impossible to manage. It's not like that. Why do I say they're overreacting? On the one hand, they are overreacting in substance. I'll give you an example of your speech. You said that delaying the upload obligation would result in a revenue loss of HUF 20 billion. It's also in his name that it's a delay, it's not until December it's up to 90 percent, it's up to May. [[Bence Tordai: But this year is a loss of revenue for the municipality!]] This does not lead to a loss of revenue for the capital, which may cause liquidity difficulties [[Bence of Turdai: Yeah! Szabó Timea intervenes.]] which, by the way, would have time to prepare for, since, as I said, not even the government has discussed, not even before the Parliament, so even if the Parliament were to accept this, it could only enter into force next year. He then exaggerates in his influence, as this change would not affect 90 percent of the municipalities as a whole, and would affect the 10 percent that it affects, in so far as the Parliament would accept it as unchanged, that business tax revenue would decrease by 10 percent. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] i.e. the annual increase has always increased by 10 per cent in the last ten years, with an increase of almost one year for the municipalities concerned. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] But you're also exaggerating your response to the effects of this. The materials discussed by the Competitiveness Council do not have any legal effect, government work and, in particular, the work of the Parliament. In fact, the government, the Ministry of Finance, negotiates with the local governments concerned, the Association of City Rights, we go through what is in the interest of the municipalities, and we also discuss what is in the interest of the undertakings represented by the Competitiveness Council. It is in the interest of them to be more competitive, because corporate tax is already low in Hungary, but if we look at their public burdens together with business tax, it is still high, and it is obviously in the interests of the Competitiveness Council to develop a system that can create more jobs by means of businesses or preserve existing jobs. So there are two kinds of interests, and we're going to hit them, and then the government decides to bring any bill to Parliament on this. And by the way, I'd like to tell you something: don't worry about Fidesz-KDNP about the municipal system. In 2010, Fidesz-KDNP rescued a bankruptcy municipal system by taking over the loan, debt and task finance of the municipalities. I think that your party alliance and the MSZP have ruined something. [[Szabó Timea: We are separate! We have separate responsibilities.]] And you're here to speak, trying to protect the municipal system. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Again, don't be afraid of us, but of your friends sitting next to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-64	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, He said the opposition was overreacting and exaggerating. Well, then let me bring you two quotes: I'm sure the members of the council are familiar with the economy, but with all due respect, they certainly don't know how to finance local governments, and I suspect they don't know the legitimate needs of people every day. This was said by András Cser-Palkovics, mayor of Fidesz Székesfehérvár. But let me bring you another quote: "I object that this would have a real economic revival effect. Some companies are practically the largest, of course, in the short term, would benefit slightly, but everyone else, especially the community of the city, the people, i.e. the workers, is very bad. He also said that. And I would also like to quote Mayor László Papp, who is also your mayor. No one's overreacting, it's a very dangerous plan, so you'd better give it up. I can't accept your answer.
u2020-02-24-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 45 votes against and one vote in favour. [[15.10]] Dear House, MEP László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, has provided an interview with the Minister of Human Resources:. What opportunities does the Government see, how can every child have the right to study in a place of residence, in safe and equal conditions? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2020-02-24-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The court judgment in the so-called segregation suit of the Pearl School has offended many people's sense of justice. Gyöngyöspatán certainly many, and many of Gyöngyöspatan feel that the political action and the provocation that punishes an entire settlement is unworthy of it. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Szabolcs Szabó: Judgment of the Court...]] Because it has to be stated that the result of a conscious, planned and organized action is the situation that we now face in Gyöngyöspata. And we also know that whoever organized and designed this operation is an organization supported by George Soros, which, with the promise of money, lured the Roma students and Gypsy families concerned into action. We also see that segregation in this case is just an excuse, Gypsy families are just tools. And the real political goal is that Hungary can be accused, that Hungary can be re-arraigned in Brussels, Strasbourg, and that Hungary can once again be prosecuted. [[Bence Tordai and Timea Szabó intervene.]] However, there are some issues that deserve serious words and serious speeches about the Pearl Pata case and similar matters. One of these cases is the case of school violence. There are situations in Gyöngyöspatan and elsewhere in the country, and violence is present in a school where neither teaching nor learning can be done. However, if a parent sees that his child has the right to study calmly and to go forward in accordance with his abilities, he is not insured, and the right for the parent to know that his child is safe at school is not guaranteed, the consequence of this is that the family decides to take his child out of school and is forced to school him out of school in another settlement. This is also the case in Gyöngyöspatán; and the consequence of this situation is that today 80 children go to school in Gyöngyöspatán, but every morning 86 children have to go to school in another settlement, and this is not good. No one is good, no one leaves or stays; and everyone has the right to study in his own settlement under calm conditions. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State, and so I ask you to examine the means by which school security can be guaranteed, and also the opportunities that the government sees in how to achieve it, and to ensure that all children in the school where they live, under safe conditions, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] be able to develop. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, is to be addressed to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, One thing we can say for sure is that the path that this foundation represents in Gyöngyöspata and in countless other settlements throughout the country, this path does not lead to the safety of the children and peacefully living together in these settlements. This kind of litigation, artificial stimulation of tension, bringing cases to international forums anywhere, will not serve any community to live together peacefully and to thrive and to keep it safe. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] On the other hand, the government has programmes that can help this through training, employment and social assistance. The largest volume, which includes the whole system, is the program that does not approach this issue on an ethnic basis, but on a social basis; it does not stand for it as this foundation, where it finds Gypsy people, tries to initiate different procedures, in case, as was said when it was founded, they can create an international case for the foundation and attack Hungary in front of an international court. This is not the way of the future, and this is not the way of catching up, but what the government has decided to do is to launch a social programme in 300 of the most disadvantaged settlements that will help disadvantaged people at the same time. They can be gypsies, they can be not gypsies, they can help everyone who is disadvantaged, they can help them to acquire qualifications, finish primary school, get a profession, or even learn more and have the right skills. [[Bence of Turda: You've been steering for ten years...]] It helps to keep your health as close as possible to the European average, to administer vaccinations, to go to screenings, to exercise healthier lifestyles in your everyday life. Helps to Prevent Crime [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] It helps solve social issues, it does this complexly. This was first launched in Tiszabő and Tiszabura. There the results of this were very visible, and every year we introduce this in 30 and another 30 settlements and in another 30 settlements, in ten years, in the 300 most disadvantaged Hungarian settlements. That is what can really help many tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of people. And what certainly doesn't help is the lawsuit that the Soros György foundation created. To them, it's just an excuse, Pearly Patch. Just like they went to dozens of other settlements, and they either filed a lawsuit because of the fact that they called for segregation, or they filed a lawsuit to shut down the whole school. Sometimes they went for compensation, money, and political scandal, sometimes for school closure and political scandal. Some of these litigators were even rewarded by Gergely Christmas by bringing them into his shadow government. There are few educational ministers who have become worthy of the Minister of Education candidacy by initiating the closure of more than 20 schools. Well, you can find them on the opposition side. So for them, it's just an excuse, a situation that they're trying to use financially and politically, but they didn't record it in any previous documents, and they didn't make any statements about staying there permanently and helping the people there. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And those of you who happen here, we can see that we've known them for a long time. One of the ladies on Gyöngyöspatán, who used to be a flag carrier in gender cases. [[Bence of Turdai: Outrageous!]] The other gentleman, who was working there, was at the Keleti Railway Station, representing one of the Soros organisations supporting migration, and organised migrants, because it was the only time to cause an international scandal about Hungary. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] Well, now they're passing through, turning gender experts and migration experts into Roma experts, trying to create some kind of political scandal, but they can't really help. On the other hand, the programme that the government has launched and the catching-up programmes that we have launched can do this, and we are also trying to make legislative amendments here in Parliament that help as many Hungarian people as possible, not on an ethnic basis, but on a social basis. [[Bence of Turda: Did you make it?]] And that's in that, for example. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The fact that the number of gypsy college students has doubled is tangible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-02-24-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I accept the answer, but I ask the Secretary of State to do everything in the government's power to ensure zero tolerance of violence within the school. Each student has the right to a calm learning regardless of his or her origin, and, where appropriate, every family regardless of their origin has the responsibility to have his or her child go to school properly, and if he or she sends his or her child to school, he or she should also take responsibility for the fact that his or her child does not use violence against his or her fellow student or teacher. It's a basic contract that's still being concluded when their children are enrolled in school. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-71	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, MEP László György Lukács, the notary of the Parliament, the representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - Why does the Government put patients in danger by destroying hospital suppliers? It's an address. I would like to inform the honourable Member that Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, two things have been certain if we talked about Hungarian health care. One is that 70 percent of the population label their health status as the most pressing problem. And the second is that every year, the debt that the government has put together in hospitals has piled up, which the government has tried to reduce year after year, and a few ten billion dollars to cover up the trouble. But the fact is that this ten - billion - occasional help has essentially not solved the issue of hospital suppliers and debts to them. By the end of the year, it was always the case that there was a debt of 50 billion or more, which means that many times these suppliers had been lending to the government for months, not only with goods but also with confidence. [[15.20]] This is why the news came out of the blue when the end of 2019 was marked as the last date for any accumulated debt to hospital suppliers and paid to hospitals; Gergely Gulyás announced it in a government account and confirmed it. And the second reading of the news was that the government did not want to pay for the whole thing, but basically asked that the companies supplying health care give up 20% of it. It is certainly very difficult to interpret this in a different way than that you took and blackmailed those who loaned the government health care work the previous year, who were helping hospitals deliver equipment, whether it was expensive tools or tools used in everyday life. It is very difficult to interpret this in a different way than that you have broken the binding contracts that hospitals have concluded with these suppliers, often with small Hungarian businesses, that is, they have acted in such a way, and it may be outrageous, as if someone would buy a car and say, after taking over the car, that I am sorry, I will not be able to pay 20 percent of it, and I do not want to pay it, so please pay 80 percent of it. One of the main problems is that this is a scam for those who have put confidence in the government and this in Hungarian health care, and the point of the problem is that all those who now lose confidence even from suppliers, and I stress that it is very often small companies and specifically companies that live on them, they also lose confidence in the credibility of the future government, so that they can deliver to you and hospitals in the future, and they will receive the money in return. Worse than that, they may even claim compensation, as in this case the government did not comply with the contractual obligation. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State that the government is serious about paying only 80% of the services ordered to healthcare suppliers. Did you expect, in case of non-payment, to face lawsuits and executions? And if so, how much will this cost the taxpayers? That is, if the market players see that you are not a man of your word. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Then perhaps the state will be able to replace the lost assets that will not be delivered to you in the future? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Government, like all its words, is completely serious about this word, honourable Member. It has been very well monitored in your speech that there is a business approach to health and that there is a public service approach. You say that in health care there must be a fixed profit that can be paid in advance, which is also there for these suppliers, this profit is inviolable, and no one in health can question that, and there is our public service logic here that we are talking about public money: we cannot pay extra profit to anyone in health care, just as in the case of public works, we cannot sabotage people and so on, and so on. Business in health care is not far from you [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] After all, their family business gained a good income from foreign exports of Hungarian doctors, Hungarian health professionals. [[György Balla: That's right!]] It was still the health business for you, because it is true that the quality of Hungarian health care is deteriorating, because you are taking dozens of doctors abroad, 62 of them, I recall, to Ireland only, but surely, for the mediation fee, the intermediary company can put a good profit in their pocket. It's the same as their new allies, who wanted to privatize everything in health care, embalmed the profit-making parts, and put it in private hands. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Read it once...!]] In the meantime, making people pay visits and hospital allowances, making them pay double social security contributions, once after their salary, and once when they go to the hospital or to the doctor, they get paid. Honourable Congressman, On your side, there's been a complete collapse here, a complete business perspective, and on our part, a public service approach. That's why it doesn't hurt you when 16,000 beds are laid down, it doesn't hurt when 6,000 medical workers are dismissed, it doesn't hurt when four hospitals are closed, because it's just a business matter for you. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: The sanctity of the treaty is a legal principle!]] However, we raised the annual health budget by HUF 770 billion, and at the end of last year, as you pointed out, we provided an additional HUF 79.4 billion as additional support to hospitals. Of this, HUF 42.8 billion has expired and HUF 36,6 billion is a restructuring aid that prevents their debt from regenerating. [[Zoltán Balczó: We introduced the Bokros package!]] Congressman! He packed his own proposal nicely, because he said that the reason why these claims should be paid 100% is because we are talking about Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, whose everyday operation is threatened by this. You are well aware, Mr President, that, although 29 February is the final date for the conclusion of the negotiations, on 14 February we announced that we will pay this amount to those companies, these small companies, which you have also talked about, with a claim of less than HUF 100 million. So it's not about what you've been trying to lead the debate on, that the liquidity of small companies is at stake at the moment. No, it is now just that with huge companies with billions of dollars or even ten billion dollars, who are able to make a great profit as a large supplier in the Hungarian health register, they are being negotiated with several actors, on the one hand, with the help of the Ministry of Finance's Secretary of State, the State Health Service Center, the Ministry of Interior and a delegation from the IRS, in order to be able to cure as many people as possible from public money. Your logic is to guarantee profits from public money. We say no, even with a 20% discount, that 20% [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] we need to use it to cure more people and reduce further waiting lists. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-76	It would be a vain dream to think that anything would be acceptable. Mr. Secretary, let's just stop for a second, okay? ! So what we're talking about is they've been ruling for ten years. Who is responsible for this situation? The one who's been steering for ten years. And if you're saying that there's no business interest in health care, like getting a CT scan, getting it because it was manufactured, what are you gonna do? Butcher Lawrence is gonna manufacture and assemble the CT? It's not the train, it's not Viktor Orbán's dream, it's people's lives! Who then will pay for, for example, cancer medicines that need to be obtained? Who's gonna make it? You're gonna make it in the Ministry? Think about who they're going to destroy and how they're going to endanger the Hungarian people. You can come up with the fact that health is not a business. Your backseat country is the one who keeps trying to pull the money off in health care. And you know what, Mr. Secretary? If 20 percent doesn't matter to you, what would you say if your family business, your cousin's fatted business in the European Union, didn't get it? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: There is no such thing!]] How about 20 percent of the money? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: There is no such thing!]] How about 20 percent of the money? (The President announced the expiry of the time limit by ringing the bell. ) Would it be gallantly said there that you should resign for extra profit? (Dr. Bence Rétvári: There is no such thing!) We could talk about your cousin's business or Lőrinc Mészáros. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He owns a bookstore!]] You're doing what you're doing, playing with fire and endangering human life. You can't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Profit is in business, that's important to you! The profit!]]
u2020-02-24-77	Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. Dear House, Member János Harghitai, representative of KDNP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:. What is the result of the outstanding economic growth of 4.9 percent in 2019 in the European comparison? It's an address. I would like to inform the honourable Member that the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2020-02-24-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Over the last ten years, the government has taken a number of high-profile economic recovery and reduction measures. As a result, I can say today that there is a substantial economic building work going on in Hungary. On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I also believe that together we can be proud of the country's economic performance. Where are the times when the IMF's credibility has gone through the roof when government debt and government deficits have gone through the roof? Where are the years of bad farming? Where is the time when unemployment was skyrocketing? ! I can now say that wages are constantly rising, employment is above 70 percent, unemployment rate has fallen below 3.4 percent, corporate tax is the lowest in the European Union, personal income tax is also at the third lowest level. [[15.30]] The economic environment is favourable for employment and small businesses can also be subject to favourable conditions. In summary, it may be possible to state that Hungarian businesses have been surrounded by a stable political and economic environment for a long time. This also favours businesses and attracts international investors. Dear Secretary of State, If we look at KSH data, we see that GDP has increased by 4.9 percent in 2019. If we look at Eurostat data, we can conclude that this increase is also the first in a European comparison. The growth surplus of the Hungarian economy is 3.7 percent against the euro area and 3.4 percent against the EU as a whole. This goes far beyond the goals, expectations that the government would always expect of itself, this 2 percent growth surplus. However, we also see, Mr State Secretary, that the growth of the euro zone is slowing down, and we need to prepare for a stagnating environment. That is why we have reason to wonder whether the results that we can have so far can be kept. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why you appreciate how you appreciate the 4.9 percent increase in 2019. How do you view the growth of the euro zone and the European economy, how do you assess it? And the main question is: how do you see the growth prospects of the Hungarian economy in the coming period? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already indicated, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Let's listen to Comrade Tallas.]]
u2020-02-24-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian economy took a turn in 2013. Growth since 2013 provides a dynamic future for the country. We are seeing an economic growth that is not driven by debt, but by solid foundations. To what do we owe this? I would like to mention four factors here. The first is government measures. Among these, I highlight the tax and wage agreement and the programme for the more competitive Hungary, but also the support for home creation can be included and the public investment. Citizens' consumption is constantly increasing as a result of favourable employment and wage convergence. The point is that more and more employees have been working for more than 800 thousand since 2010, and they have been working for higher wages. This will lead to more consumption, which will, of course, affect the performance of the economy, as the tools and services consumed need to be produced. The third is market expansion, newly acquired and built export capacities. Here it is primarily the construction of new factories and plants of foreign investors outside the country that bring this result. The fourth is the use of EU funds, in which it is known that we are one of the best in the European Union, we are at the forefront. This, the use of EU funds, can be used primarily for the expansion and growth of the Hungarian economy. Honourable Congressman, If I may, I would like to highlight some of the measures taken by the government, confirming what the Member has said. The reduction of the corporate tax rate, which is the lowest in Europe, stands at 9 percent. We've been able to attract a lot of investors to the country. The reason for this is, for example, that we spent 28 percent of every 100 forints on investment. This means that we are not going to live up to our future, but we are going to devote it to developments and investments that give Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families new opportunities. It is also very important to highlight the reduction in the burden, the reduction in the rate of the social contribution tax, as it was at one time 27 per cent, and from July 2019 it was 17.5 per cent. This leaves hundreds of billions in the Hungarian economy with Hungarian businesses. And what is the objective? The fact that the Hungarian economy can achieve at least 2 percent more than the growth and average growth of the European Union. It is obvious that this ensures the security of the country, the budget, the people. It is very important that we adopt an economic protection action plan in 2020, this year, which we hope and will ensure this growth for the Hungarian economy, Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr János Harghitai to accept the State Secretary's reply. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Thank you.]] Here you go, Congressman. [[Intercoms from the DK benches.]]
u2020-02-24-82	I think that if we have social policy goals, and we do have them, and they are constantly renewed, that, in order to succeed, to achieve them, we must have a stable fiscal policy and, accordingly, our economic policy. The government has certainly been successful in this area, and I think that if that consistency remains in the coming period and I see determination from its response, then we will also be able to achieve these social policy goals. I accept your answer with thanks. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2020-02-24-83	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear House, Member Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What is the obstacle to accessibility? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Tóth will answer you, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last summer, the MÁV announced in a press release that in the framework of the complex maintenance program, the station in Zugló will be beautiful, and thanks to the renovation that will be completed by the end of the year, the quality of the space will be significantly improved. The MÁV Group wishes to become a depositary of solidarity, the MÁV writes about itself in its business policy, saying that the company's objectives include equal opportunities. Nevertheless, the residents of Zugló were surprised that the Zugló railway station, renovated from HUF 293 million, had not become accessible, and the elevator was still not available to passengers. [[A statement from the opposition's benches: Shame!]] Thus, the station cannot be used by disabled people, baby-wagon mothers, young people who are difficult to travel, because it can only be approached by stairs. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: Outrageous!]] Nearby there are hospitals, health institutions, a mobility school and the Blind State Institute. The lack of accessibility of the stop shows that equal opportunities for the MÁV were not considered during the renovation. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] The quality of the work carried out is inadequate. Passengers continue to be greeted by a tight, accident-threatening, bumpy platform in several places. And the tattile signs that help the blind and the visually impaired do not run along the tracks. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Amazing!]] Moreover, the renovation did not solve not only accessibility, but also the previous problems. Thus, for example, on the platform, the building with no essential function remains only about 2 meters between the edge of the wall and the platform, causing congestion and accident hazards when trains arrive. The lack of accessibility and the current situation of the renovation were explained by the MÁV's fact that now only comfort-enhancing maintenance has been carried out, and there will be further renovations in the future, however, as a result of which the elements now being built will be dismantled or modified, such as the painted platform building and the platform covering. However, the current renovation did not make any sense. On this basis, it is incomprehensible why the train station in Zugló was not accessible, which is one of the busiest railway stops in Budapest, serving more than 1.5 million passengers per year and receiving 200-250 passenger trains per day. [[15.40]] With these in mind, I ask the Secretary of State: what is the obstacle to the accessibility of the railway station in Zugló? When can accessibility be expected, and what help do you intend to provide to those who are unable to reach the train station in Zugló due to lack of accessibility? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-02-24-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As a representative of the Socialist Party, you must be aware of what you left behind after your disastrous government. But let's not forget, the Fidesz-KDNP government took over the MÁV group with a total debt of nearly HUF 300 billion in 2010. At that time, the railway fleet was old, mostly 30-40 years old, and the infrastructure was also decades behind. Honourable Congressman, The first thing the government did was consolidate the debts of the railway company. In recent years almost 150 modern, comfortable railway vehicles have been placed on the market. The development of the neglected railway infrastructure, which you are planning to destroy, has begun, where hundreds of kilometres of railway lines have been renewed, has undergone environmentally friendly electrification. In addition, the renovation of bridges, stations and stops also increased the comfort of the travelling public. Over the last decade, the government has spent more than 1300 billion HUF on rail development from EU and domestic funding. In the period 2016-24, around HUF 1800 billion will also be used for this purpose. Honourable Congressman, You destroyed it, and we're building it in the railway area. It's not fair to make a statement. Honourable Congressman, In all cases, improvements are made taking into account the criteria for creating a chance. There is no better proof of this than the 40 new low-floor KISS-floor motor train, which will meet the requirements of the age in all respects. This will make it easier and more comfortable to travel this year for older people, mothers with strollers and disabled people, not only at the Zugló station, but on the whole railway line. The government has a key role to play in raising the quality of passenger services, an important element of which is the beauty of the station environment and the development of more civilised passenger spaces. [[Bence of Turda: And will that be accessibility?]] We'll take care of that, and you won't listen to that. To this end, the renovation programme for the busiest stations was launched with the name.50 renewable stations. However, the outdated nature of the rail system inherited from Balliberal governments can only be gradually improved, including the conditions for accessible access. So although his speech was painfully lacking in self-criticism, [[Attila Mesterházy: Because not of yours?]] Allow me to say, [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] We agree with the objectives set out in your question. Therefore, MÁV Zrt. It also plans to complete the renewal of the passenger traffic areas of the station Zugló, and the finalization of the plans for the planned complex reconstruction is ongoing. The accessible approach is planned to be a new crossing and from there an elevator connection will provide. In the design work of the railway company Zugló stop, special attention was given to the needs and aspects of the disabled, including several meetings with the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sightseeers. The comfort-enhancing renovation you quoted solved problems requiring immediate intervention, which significantly improved the overall image and quality of the stop, because an orderly stop is needed in Zugló. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Csaba Tóth to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I was hoping you'd say something encouraging, but if you had to use this train station every day, you probably wouldn't have accepted that answer either. This answer does not calm the elderly who are struggling to move, the disabled, or even the babies with the strollers. One thing is certain of what he said that this accessibility will not happen in the foreseeable future, since he could not and did not want to say a specific date. And why I'm sure I won't accept this answer is that the tactile hulls for the blind and the low-sighted, which are used to lead these people out, don't lead them to the exit, Mr. Secretary, they lead people not to the exit, but back to the tracks. It's a miracle there hasn't been a tragedy at this station before, so I really hope you don't agree with that and don't accept the answer. Thank you very much. I'm sure I won't take it.
u2020-02-24-89	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. It does not cover a living with the title of the Hungarian minimum wage. Honourable Congressman, In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Tamás Schanda, the Secretary of State will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I've been listening to and listening to this government perform fantastically, to bathe in success, even in terms of wages. Well, let the truth be told against what you've just said here, which you won't know from government propaganda. The Polish, the Czechs, the Slovenians, the Slovaks make better money than Hungarians, but now Romania is breathing down our necks. You call this a success, that there is no country around us where honest work is less valuable than in Hungary. [[Ferenc Koncz: You started it in 2008!]] I understand that the stolen billions, the castles, the yacht ride, sitting on private jets... that doesn't seem to be the problem. You don't care about the Hungarian employee who gets up at 6:00 and works late at night to support his family. But I ask myself, on behalf of every employee in Hungary, that you talk about success! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Because what do you really do? You're falsifying the statistics. They point to an average wage that the Hungarian Central Statistical Office itself says is that a significant proportion of businesses' employees' wages are not included on this average. Two, you're falsifying inflation data, while there's hardly any inflation on paper for years, we're paying for vegetables as much as we pay for meat, but bread and fuel are getting more expensive, and we'll get a whole lot more. Three: you constantly devalue the Hungarian forint. The only reason we can buy a kilo of bread from a euro is because you have cut off Hungarian forints, so that the euro will cost more than 340 forints. The feeble forint obviously increases the price of everything. Colleagues! I represent the Hungarians in Europe [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Hungarian citizens who do not accept that their salaries can only be poor in Europe, those who think that all European citizens, including us, are entitled to a decent living. I represent those who didn't have billions on their laps. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Confiscated billions.]] They work hard for every single shopping. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State: when, why did the Orbán government accept that the Hungarian minimum wage cannot be earned today because it does not cover the basic costs of living? Why are they busy forging statistics instead of raising wages significantly? Why do they not support the plan of the European minimum wage represented by DK, so that the work of Hungarians is worth no less than that of Europeans? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[15.50]]
u2020-02-24-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Tamás Schanda is responding. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-92	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Talking about statistics counterfeiting in Ferenc Gyurcsány's party is really brave! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You are talking about the minimum wage, but you forget to mention that the government has raised the gross amount of the minimum wage from January 2020 to HUF 161 thousand, which is more than double the level of HUF 73 500 in 2010. Yes, that was the minimum wage in Hungary when the Hungarian people entrusted the country's government to the Fidesz-KDNP party association following your robbery policy. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] Honourable Congressman, For the purposes of evaluating statistical data, I suggest that we all start from official data. Eurostat is the EU body to which you have tried to lie in January 2020 from updated earnings sets that in the statistically closed period from 2010 to 2018, Visegrád countries, measured in national currency and euros, Hungary's average gross and net earnings have increased to the greatest extent. Honourable Congressman, At the end of 2018, we managed to conclude a two-year wage agreement with employees' and employer's representatives, with an 8 percent increase in 2019 and an 8 percent increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. The minimum wage thus increased to HUF 161 thousand and the guaranteed minimum wage to HUF 210 600. Since 2010, the former thus increased by 119 percent and the latter by 135 percent. Real wages, which have been rising steadily for more than six years, show that it is more and more worthwhile to work in Hungary, as Hungarian workers were able to bring home more with an average of one month's earnings in 2017 and 2018 and almost a month's wages last year. The increase in gross average earnings reached 63.1 percent from 2010 to 2018, while net average earnings increased by 65.5 percent. Mr President, during these eight years, the real value of net earnings, measured without discounts, increased by more than 40 percent at national level, on average by 47.2 percent, taking into account family preferences. The real value of one child's earnings increased by 45.6 percent, and the number of workers with multiple children increased much more than average, thus the real earnings of two children increased by more than 58 percent and the number of children with three children increased by 76.1 percent from 2010 to 2018 in eight years. Let us note these figures well, because, if we look at them, under your governance, during 2002-2010, i.e. in the same period of eight years, real earnings increased by 13,8 percent in total. Those are the facts. We can say that in the last eight years, the purchasing value of the actions has therefore increased, and even from the beginning of 2013 the increase continues from month to month. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-02-24-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's try to take each other seriously. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Make it clear you can't buy bread out of percentages. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 107 thousand forints, that's the net value of the minimum wage, 107 thousand forints, not even 320 forints! You are pleased that this is the value of the Hungarians' monthly work in the middle of Europe in 2020. The sad situation is that the biggest obstacle to the rise in Hungarian wages is the government itself. As long as you govern, it's gonna be nothing but a forgery of statistics and a slave law. If we want to live as European citizens in Hungary, there is no other way than the change of government and the minimum European wage, because if it is up to you, we will remain poor in Europe and they will be very ashamed. I don't accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-02-24-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: - Why has the Government been sabotaging it for the tenth year in order to enforce the fundamental right of people to clean air? It's an address. I would like to inform the honourable Member that Secretary of State Sándor Farkas will answer you. [[Erzsébet Schmuck nods.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It's almost time for news if one of the levels of smogriado can finally be dissolved somewhere. Many kinds of pollutants are released into the air, both individually and collectively, harmful to humans and wildlife. Smog - mass - decaying urban trees are good examples of this. In Hungary, the severity of air pollution is mainly determined by the amount of fine particulate matter in the air, which is PM2.5. There is no safe level of particulate matter contamination, even the smallest concentration is harmful. The longer you are exposed to it, the more serious the adverse effects are: disease of the heart, lungs and blood vessels, lung cancer, asthma, allergy. Almost 15,000 people die prematurely every year in Hungary. This situation is simply untenable. We can't lose a small town a year just because the government hasn't taken this question seriously in ten years. The national air load reduction programme, prepared by your ministry in consultation with the co-ministeries and civil society organisations, is included in the system, which could lead to an increase in life expectancy by 5.4 months in Hungary by 2030, and the number of premature deaths associated with air pollution could be reduced by more than 5,000. However, according to our information, most of the most effective measures in the programme have simply been deleted by the Prime Minister's Office. Mostly residential programs, although 84 percent of the fine particulate matter in the air comes from residential sources. This means that there will continue to be no modern rental program, wide-ranging heating modernisation, thermal insulation of residential homes, forced incineration of waste, the reduction of lignite, coal and wood heating. Instead, a government decree was issued to move small combustion plants from district-level offices close to the population to county level from March onwards. Do you really think that if you look at the problem from afar and above, it's gone? Mr Secretary of State, please respond to what will happen with the implementation of the truly effective, planned actions of the programme. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2020-02-24-97	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, As I have already indicated, the question of interpellation by the woman representing the answer will be given by Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-98	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I have said on several occasions in reply to your previous question, we certainly do not dispute the negative effects of air pollution, which is why in recent years we have already taken significant steps to improve the situation and are constantly working towards improving air quality. In order to explain the measures taken in detail, the timeframe is not sufficient, but it can be said that within the framework of the inter-sectoral programme for reducing particulate matter, improvements and investments have been made in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors over the last ten years, with the result that air quality has improved. [[16.00]] The draft national air load reduction programme has indeed been completed, but it has not yet been accepted by the government. The documents and working materials resulting from the preparation process of the programme, so that their content may vary and change before the final decision is taken. The government is working to adopt and implement measures to protect the health and environment of the Hungarian people that effectively reduce emissions of air pollutants without making the Hungarian families more difficult to afford. I assume that you can agree with these objectives, my fellow Members, so that you can also agree. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to Hungary's national energy and climate plan adopted in January, which contains a number of elements that show that the government is committed to implementing effective emission control measures. At the same time, the government is determined to implement the necessary measures to protect our environment and health by preserving the results achieved so far in order to protect our national economy and families. The national air load reduction programme, which will be adopted soon, will indeed provide an appropriate framework for the implementation of effective measures. With regard to the transformation of the authorities, I would like to inform you that the authority of the district offices of government offices retains the authority to protect air purity. Territorial environmental authorities will continue to act only in more complex matters of the protection of air purity. I hope that you have been convinced that, compared to this opportunity, the government has already done a lot to improve air quality and is constantly working with further steps to take further measures, so we are committed to improving the situation. I think that it is extremely important for all Hungarians that this climate plan or air load reduction plan be completed, and we will all benefit from it. That is why I ask my honourable fellow Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's reply. [[Interview from Fidesz: Yes!]]
u2020-02-24-100	No, I can't accept the answer. If it were true that you have taken substantial steps in recent years, pollution, high air pollution would not be one of the most serious problems today. High air pollution is now a very serious problem not only in the capital and in larger rural cities, but also in smaller settlements. You talk and don't do anything in this area. If they had, they wouldn't have voted down two of my bill proposals last week at the Committee on Economic Affairs, one being the VAT on air tickets and the other being the VAT on public transport to 5%. The latter would have been particularly important to reduce the pollution caused by cars, and people prefer to choose public transport. You guys talk all the time, but when it comes to action, they just sweep it off the table.
u2020-02-24-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bence Tordai, the notary of the Parliament, the representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Would you consider the taxing of the upper tenteen to be fair, as the Dialogue suggests? It's an address. I would like to inform the honourable Member that on behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, wealth inequalities have been unleashed, and the financial situation of families is increasingly determining the future fate of children. It is almost impossible to break out of poverty, it is very difficult to get from one to two, and it has not developed a broad, European middle class in Hungary that can accommodate many. The vast majority of people feel that the established economic and social order is unfair. Based on the MNB's assessment, the top 10 percent of the net worth is 56 percent, while the lower 90 percent owns only 44 percent. The upper one percentage holds over a quarter of the total assets, while the net worth of the lower tenth is negative. The hundred richest Hungarian assets are estimated to be nearly HUF 4600 billion, which is a nearly threefold increase compared to ten years ago. Meanwhile, the vast majority of society has lived with nothing better than a decade. Behind the beautiful economic indicators lies mainly the enrichment of large foreign companies and the Hungarian upper ten thousand. Therefore, following the proposal by the Dialogue on the substantial involvement of large companies in public burdens, it has now submitted a proposal for a decision to tax the upper ten thousand, which would deduct the residential property from the burden, a percentage of the net financial assets, to determine the tax on the super-rich. Mr. Secretary, would you consider the taxing of the top tenteen to be fair? Secretary of State, do you consider your ministry capable of developing the technical details of this tax? Secretary of State, can you confirm the calculations of the Dialogue, according to which the upper tenement has a minimum of HUF 15 000 billion in assets, so the tax would generate a minimum of HUF 150 billion in additional revenue from the budget, the common cash register? Secretary of State, do you agree that this money should be spent on social benefits and opportunity-creating education in order to increase social mobility? I look forward to your detailed, thorough, honest response. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With your proposal, first of all, I think that I have a serious political problem in principle and, consequently, we have a problem, namely that we think about taxes in two ways. I say to you on the basis of the election programme, on the basis of their tax programme, I say that it is their principle that everything must be taxed in Hungary and everyone. And we have the principle of reducing the public burden, reducing taxes, and stabilising the budget so that more people pay, paying less taxes for more employees, paying less taxes for more businesses, lower VAT, higher consumption, and paying more taxes. This practice, carried out by the Fidesz-KDNP government from 2010, has produced results. The budget has stabilized, with nearly HUF 700 billion per year, despite the reduced tax, more tax revenues are being made. I think, instead of you introducing or increasing the existing taxes of six or seven or ten, you should think about what this government is doing, which, once again, is all about tax reduction and reduction of public burdens in tax policy. That's how you attract businesses. [[Bence Tordai: Explain to the Swedes!]] , investments and jobs can be created so that technology can be developed so that higher turnover can be achieved and therefore higher wages can be given, thus increasing the revenue from the budget. I think, instead of what we say and say on the basis of their electoral programme, which would obviously be implemented, if they could get a majority here, extend the inheritance tax, introduce withholding tax on certain businesses, 30% [[Bence Tordai: To offshore companies!]] He also said that he would introduce a Tobin tax on capital movements, a speculator tax on capital movements. [[Exactly, to the speculators!]] introducing a carbon tax on certain enterprises; but the most serious one is their two most serious ideas and their proposal to introduce a new key in the single-key system of personal income tax instead of 15 per cent, 30 per cent. [[Bence of Turdai: The million-dollar incomes, yes!]] , thus taxing the entire Hungarian taxpayers and deterring investors, which would increase the corporate tax rate to more than double, which would raise the corporate tax rate to 19 percent. [[16.10]] I think that with this tax policy, what would be achieved is that, on the one hand, there would be no new investment in Hungary, so that existing jobs would be very difficult or could not be kept at all, but what is much more serious with this tax system, what you want is that the companies here, which are now appreciating Hungary and accepting tax conditions and Hungary's tax system, would also leave Hungary, and therefore you would endanger the jobs of the Hungarian people with your tax policy, putting the Hungarian people at risk, causing uncertainty in the entire Hungarian economy, and also in the budget. I think that your proposal for any tax increase is wrong, rather than thinking about supporting the government's tax reduction policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Bence Tordai to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-106	Mr. Secretary of State didn't say a word about whether the top ten thousand would then be taxed by you. I have to think of it as not, because Fidesz has always been the party of the top ten thousand, and it still represents the interests of the top ten thousand. But it's no wonder, because the top ten thousand are increasingly made up of billion-dollar Fidesz criminals who are stealing the Hungarian people's money, and this is going to be yachting and prostitution and coke, right, Zsolt Borkai? [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And this is gonna be a helicopter ride, isn't it, Antal Rogán? And this is going to be a private plane and a mini-rail and a stadium at the end of the garden, isn't it, Viktor Orbán? So you're worried about the stolen goods, not only do you not want to give them back, but you don't even want to pay taxes. The reason Fidesz does not support the taxes of the super-rich is that Fidesz does not support the tax of the upper ten thousand, because it is the upper ten thousand who, rich with public money, has gained the wealth of the people, and refuses to give back anything of it to the community. Of course, I do not accept your answer.
u2020-02-24-107	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What further economic development measures are expected in Hungary in 2020? Mr. Congressman! I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer your question of interpellation. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The civilian government that took office in 2010 set the goal of strengthening Hungary's economy, and perhaps even more important, that Hungarian people feel this in their everyday lives. It is also important to emphasise this because if we remember where we started in 2010, where this government had to start working, the state of the Hungarian economy, it is fortunate to say that we are miles away from the collapse of the economy at that time. Back then, we didn't show up for debt, and the restrictions followed each other. Luckily, it's all in the past. The sustainable economic growth of the last ten years is unprecedented in terms of recent decades, but perhaps the whole XX. It could be said by a century. Due to disciplined fiscal policy, public debt has fallen below 70 percent of GDP and cuts have been replaced by tax cuts. Instead of an aid-based society, we can now talk about a work-based society. It is an important result that the number of people employed is persistently above 4.5 million and the unemployment rate has fallen to 3.5 percent. At the same time, wages have also increased, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have now doubled. The results of economic policy measures over the last ten years are now indisputable. Our economic growth is now significantly above the EU average. In the last year, not only the value of investments, but also exports have been brought to record heights, and Hungary's ever-increasing economy has created a favourable environment for both small and medium-sized enterprises and international companies. I would like to highlight, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises, the winners of which are the government's consistent policy. In view of the above, I would like to ask the State Secretary what further economic development measures are expected in 2020. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-110	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the last ten years, the national government has succeeded in modernising the Hungarian economy in such a way that, even today, according to the IMF report, Hungary has the second highest high-tech share of industry in the world. In this respect, only Denmark is ahead of us and we are even ahead of Germany. Between 2010 and 2018, business productivity in Hungary increased at a much faster pace than in the other Visegrad countries and the EU average of 28. The Hungarian government decided on 101 large investments in 2019, with a total value of HUF 1705 billion, representing 4 percent of GDP. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises provide an important base for the strengthening and growth of the Hungarian economy. This is why the government's aim is for the majority of SMEs to join among those with high technological advances and leading innovation capacities. Honourable Congressman, The future is built around the three key words of Hungarian economic policy: high-tech, green and Hungarian. To this end, the government adopted the SME strategy in November 2019, which has already been discussed here today, in which we outlined the vision of the sector by 2030 and defined the most important tasks of business policy. The government's measures aim at a successful international dynamic business community and the stable functioning of the small business community that provides a family's livelihood. Today, the Hungarian economy has come to an era change due to factors such as the digital revolution, the spread of artificial intelligence, climate and nature protection challenges, the rise in wages or generational change. At the same time, this change of era presents not only challenges, but also great opportunities with appropriate government action and cooperation between companies. Honourable Congressman, In 2020 and 2021 we provide HUF 353 billion in economic development support, HUF 233 billion in non-refundable and HUF 120 billion in reimbursable resources for SMEs. In the framework of these measures, we want to support, in particular, the technological change of SMEs and their organisational renewal and their shift towards environmental sustainability. The Hungarian multi-program will bring the most developing companies to higher growth levels and help international markets. In the latest chapter of the programme, we will also support green national champions, i.e. SMEs that can also appear from the supplier side of energy efficiency improvements and produce real added value. The aim of the programme is to facilitate the technological change of SMEs and to encourage the use of high-tech solutions at the level of skills in the economy. The national entrepreneurial mentoring programme, which is the government's tool for providing general entrepreneurial knowledge transfer, will continue in 2020. This is also the year we are launching a programme to support the development of SMEs in free business zones, i.e. less favoured settlements. The new measures also include programmes to promote generational change. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2020-02-24-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Recently, Prime Minister spoke at an international event about the foundation of national Christian conservative policy for successful economic policy everywhere in the world. The Prime Minister said this on the basis of international examples, from America to the Far East, that in many countries where there is a right-wing government, there is a good economy where there is a left-wing one, not. But this is especially true for Hungary, it is enough to watch the Hungarian left-wing government from Bokros to Gyurcsány: economic downturn, sale of state assets, austerity, poverty, aid policy. On the other hand, civil governments can boast of economic growth, job creation, tax reduction and the growth of state wealth from. 98 onwards. This is the policy that we need to pursue, and that is what we will continue to support in the future. Thank you very much, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, honourable Members, the Member has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, If you have a problem with your vision, would you wait 15 months for an eye examination? It's an address. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that you will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, May 2021. Today, in Marcali, this is the date for patients who want to see an ophthalmologist. Secretary of State, would you wait 15 months for an eye exam if you had a problem with your vision? For many years, people in Marcal district have seen the situation of the hospital in Marcal as the most serious problem in the region. You know, this is the hospital that József Attila Móring previously promised a Fidesz representative CT and a helicopter landing, as well as the independence of the hospital from the beginning of last year. Prior to that, an emergency centre, recently set the goal of creating a health centre combined with a change of attitude as a national sample project. In the past, the Secretary of State said that they want to provide the highest possible level of healthcare to the population of Hungary. Well, let's see the fidesz change of mind and the highest standard of health care in practice. In Marcali, taxpayers and pensioners working their whole lives have to wait weeks for a lab test, months for dermatology, urology, and, as I mentioned, an ophthalmologist has to wait 15 months for an ophthalmic clinic. Shocking, isn't it? Think of our fellow countrymen with diabetes or glaucoma who may go blind in the absence of constant control. Secretary of State, constant control with one professional order a week in Marcali is not possible, which is why it is incomprehensible that you do not engage with other ophthalmologists, if only there were candidates. And the top of all this is that they're holding ophthalmological and urological examinations in the same office. And people who have been pushed out of the sterile operating room, recently operated, are moved to the surgical ward through the masses of infectious patients waiting in the corridor. Is this Fidesz's idea of a national model project? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State when the earlier promises of Attila Móring József will be fulfilled: the emergency center with CT equipment, the helicopter landing, the independent hospital. How can it be that Hungarians who regularly pay social security contributions do not receive healthcare in time? And again, tell me honestly, if you had a problem with your vision, would you wait 15 months for an eye exam? Please answer these questions. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have said, Mr President, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári answers his question of interpellation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The difference between the period before 2010 and the period after 2010 is that before 2010 we could talk about how many hospitals are shut down, how many hospital beds are charged and how many workers are put on the street, and since 2010 we can talk about renovating 91 rural hospitals in whole or in part, modernising 54 clinics, 107 rescue stations with modern technology, 23 completely new clinics, and 34 completely new rescue stations to help get the ambulance anywhere in 15 minutes. What happened at the hospital in Marcal, you received more information last year, March, April and September. Our aim is to ensure that the benefits for which the most important aspect is to be as close as possible to the patients, the residents, the local hospital in Marcal, where there is a need for a higher level of preparedness, must be available at the institution in Kaposvár. This is the most optimal distribution in terms of patient safety. In 2017, the Marcal Hospital received a new digital X-ray worth HUF 37 million, and the next thing I know, this hospital had a total development of HUF 453 million. I stress that before 2010, the closure was not closed, and now we can talk about how many hundred million HUF improvements have been made. Forint 3.4 million forints for training and further training of workers, HUF 79 million for infrastructure development, HUF 280 million for health development, HUF 90 million for diagnostic and medical laboratory infrastructure development, HUF 1.9 million for the development of a psychiatric and addictological care network. This is how the general medical department, care, hospice, chronic internal medicine, surgery, emergency care and outpatient care are currently operating in the institution. In Marcali, patients are treated in a total of 43 professions, and this is achieved in 507 specialist and 144 non-medical hours. The ophthalmological specialization, as you said, takes place 16 hours a week, 6 hours a week, 6 hours a week, and 6 hours a week. Where there is an urgent situation, there is a need for acute intervention, which, of course, will be dealt with immediately in Kaposvár, honourable Member. Patients are provided with completely different tools and time, even in the same treatment, but on different days. One type of disease, in the case of ophthalmology, on Monday, and in the case of urology, on Wednesday, and not as in the practice in Budaörs, where basic hygiene standards have not been respected. The O.R. is on the second floor, honourable Member, and patients are being moved between the downstairs surgical department and the operating room in a separate sterile elevator. So what you said about this isn't real either. During inpatient care, we managed to reduce waiting lists. While a cataract surgery had to wait 90 days in 2012, now it was only 35 days, 180 days for a hip replacement surgery, now 74, 241 days for a knee replacement surgery, now 121 days have to wait. And if you look at how many people are on the waiting list, how many people are waiting: 28 680 people were waiting for cataract surgery in 2012, now 8052, 11 000 people were waiting for hip replacements, now 3200, more than 10,000 people were waiting for knee replacements, 5 000 people are waiting, and, overall, 19 511 people are on the waiting lists instead of 70,000 people. This type of waiting list improvement, which is typical of inpatient care, should be implemented as much as possible in outpatient care in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2020-02-24-118	Mr President, it is unacceptable that Fidesz always promises everything to the Marcalians before the elections and, after the elections, these promises are not fulfilled. And when I stand up here in Parliament and ask you how all of this exists, you will no longer give me an answer, just as it has not happened today. It is also unacceptable that, although these developments on paper sound good, this is not what people are experiencing. As far as the O.R. is concerned, they're taking the patient down in an elevator, and then they're pushing the poor man through the waiting room in front of the patient management with a sheet, Mr. Secretary of State. I'd like you to look into the Marcali case. I find it unacceptable that you do not have enough specialists, and this creates long waiting lists, driving patients out of Marcali. They don't want to go to Kaposvár, they don't want to go anywhere, they pay social security contributions, they want to receive care where they live and where they get used to it. If it were up to you, if it were up to you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] we're not gonna have a doctor, we're not gonna have a hospital in Marcali, but we're not gonna let that happen. I can't accept the answer.
u2020-02-24-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible for me to give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, who has applied in order of business. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-120	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to make it clear that what I am about to say is not a criticism of the sitting; I particularly appreciate the chair of the President. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 2012 XXXVI on Parliament. Law 46. The president called on the speaker to come to the point... and so on. Dear Secretary of State, The subject of the interpellation was quite clear, would you wait 15 months for an eye examination? And you've been consciously talking about something else all along for four and a half minutes. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There were several questions! I've been talking about the hospital in Marcal!]] Thank you very much. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: $2 million in punishment! Violation of Parliament's authority! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-121	Thank you very much. I, too, appreciate the congressman very much, so I think that was your opinion. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Ours too!]] And I'm gonna ignore the fact that this came out on a case-by-case basis. Thank you very much. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the interpellation period. [[Some Members are leaving the meeting room. Noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to make sure that those who are leaving the Chamber on an urgent matter should do so in such a way that the next part, the hour of immediate questioning, can be kept undisturbed. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving the meeting room.]] Thank you very much for your understanding. This also applies, of course, to pro-government representatives. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter James, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mihály Varga appointed Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group, accept the person of the responding party, or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-02-24-122	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-02-24-123	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform the Head of the Group and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the next hour of immediate questions. Dear House, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. I can also inform you that, due to the absence of Prime Minister, Mr Mihály Varga has appointed Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[Z. Carpathian on Daniel's mark:]] Thank you very much, the Member has indicated his acceptance of the response. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-124	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out to the Minister that the January inflation figures exceeded all expectations: prices have increased by 4.7 percent in one year, and this is an average, a rough average, from which the typical one-time consumer, buying Hungarian citizen, who enters a supermarket like the one who buys a luxury yacht, may not have felt so much higher in the case of luxury yachts. But the person who feels better about it is sure that the Hungarian citizen who is faced with food prices rising by 6 per cent, including pork by more than 23 per cent, sausage by 13 per cent, potatoes, fresh vegetables, fruit products by more than 8 per cent, Minister, the price increase. And I would also like to point out to you that, while there is no housing, there is a specifically rent-building program for this government, the rent, so specifically the rents have increased by more than 10.5 percent in one year. We can also see that, not only do Hungarian wages starting from a low base not keep up with all of this, but now the yield of superstate paper is completely eaten up by inflation, so even you, ministers and State Secretarys are not necessarily doing as well as you thought before. But if we look at the purchasing power of Hungarian pensions, we can see that a 2.8 percent increase in pension is not enough for inflation monitoring, so we are very interested to know what they would suggest to our retired countrymen who, in the face of the minimum pension increase, seem to be in a more difficult situation due to the increase in inflation, and let's say that someone has a housing problem in the family or, let's say, with state support for housing savings, they changed a boiler earlier. Minister, you can see, therefore, that in the midst of all kinds of statistical magic, man must be seen, and these people have real problems and therefore have real questions. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm translating these. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2020-02-24-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute answer, the floor now belongs to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Minister. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. Indeed, man must be seen, and I must say that no one was pleased with the higher inflation rate in January. I note that in recent years we have also become accustomed to this level of inflation, and before that, even 30 percent of the previous governments were not uncommon in terms of the period of MSZP-SZDSZ governments. But what we must see, honourable Member, is that the price increase has occurred because of the effects on which the government has only partially or completely no effect, and I am thinking of the change in fuel prices here, but I also refer to the change in the price of the fruit that you mentioned. Look at the price changes in neighbouring countries or Poland, at roughly the same level, and everywhere there is the hope that in the coming months the level of inflation and the level of price increases will decrease. What the government has an impact on, such as the change in the price of household energy or textbooks, has changed deeply below inflation levels. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] One-and-a-half percent, so I have to say that the government is taking its part in curbing prices. As regards the pensions of our retired countrymen, we continue to adhere to our commitment in 2010 that the value of pensions must be preserved, and that even if the economy is performing better, further support should be provided to pensioners, as has been the case in the last three years. It is recalled that, for the first time in this government, we paid a pension premium to supplement pensions; the economy increased by more than 3.5 percent, so performance made this possible. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] In fact, we were able to provide a voucher for Elizabeth three times to reply to the representative behind me (Gergely Arató intervenes). for pensioners. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-127	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. In return, Mr Dániel Z. Carpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-128	Dear Minister, With all due respect, I do not think that bonuses, rewards, and donations should be distributed to raise pensions to the extent that these people can otherwise live. He told me to look at other countries. I did that. What I see is that where inflation has jumped, it was typically a much higher wage level than that allowed by the government that brutally favours multinationals in Hungary, and forgive the wages of Hungarian citizens, but it may be artificially low. And I have looked at these countries, Minister, and I have seen that Hungary has had by far the highest inflation rate in the last year, taking into account all the EU Member States concerned. These are amazing processes, but there is something you are sure to have an impact on, such as 27 percent VAT, which also affects 27 percent of children's children, and 27 percent of basic foods are also hit by consumers. This has already decreased to 5 per cent for one or two products, but not at all for the broad range of products. Minister, the scope of the budget, if the economy really works so well, will at least allow for a wide-ranging VAT reduction. [[16.40]] Answer me, please, at least in the case of basic foods and articles for raising children. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He is willing to do this, he is open to it, because we put the draft on the table. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As I'm sure you remember, although you didn't vote for it, a significant number of basic foods have been reduced in recent years. Think of the fact that you didn't vote for it, you didn't support the reduction in the VAT on milk, you didn't support your chicken meat, you didn't support your pork. [[Noise.]] So when you demand such things on the government, then, I think you should first examine yourself. As regards salaries, as regards the increase in wages, I am pleased that you mentioned this, Member, the change in wages for low wages has been significant in recent years. Since 2010, the minimum wage has increased by 119 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 135 percent, while the government pays special attention to the support of families. Thanks to the family support measures of recent years, the income of families without children increased by 84 percent, the income of children by 87 percent, and the income of those with three children by more than double, by 111 percent. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-131	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó and Mr Sándor Szabó, representatives of the MSZP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title: "On current issues." Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mihály Varga has appointed Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, to respond. I respectfully ask Mr Tamás Harangozó, because he will answer on behalf of the two of you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer himself.
u2020-02-24-132	I don't accept it. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the opposition.]]
u2020-02-24-133	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Members, and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Mr László Varga and Mr Sándor Szabó will now have an immediate question. You want to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:....don't you want to make people's quality of life any worse by reducing municipal resources? It's an address. Congressman László Varga will begin. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, On 13 October, Viktor Orbán said that he was ready to cooperate with the opposition self-governments, as a result of the results that shocked you. Obviously, the minimum of cooperation would be to consult local authorities on legislative amendments to them. We haven't seen anything like this in a while. The amendment to the legislation on local business tax, which affected public transport, was a surprise to local authorities, as well as the amendment to the theatres, which puts them in an emergency situation, if they want to cooperate, they want to obtain state resources to maintain the theatres. But you've heard about the nationalization of kindergartens, and the latest, very seriously shocking news is the plan to transform the legislative background on local business tax. This plan, which, according to experts, would take 80-100 billion out of the budget of the municipalities, was shocking for many local government leaders and municipalities, but not only for opposition authorities, since András Cser-Palkovics Fideszes mayor, Mayor of Székesfehérvár also raised his voice and several pro-government mayors. It is therefore a proposal from the National Competitiveness Council, which you have not been separated from since then. Today, his secretary of state failed to distance himself here in Parliament. You hear things in the shower news, and you obviously see interviews with you, which, if any, have been made with you, but this is where Parliament, honourable Minister, needs to be done to make its position clear on this issue. If this story goes through, they'll take money from renovating roads, playgrounds, sidewalks, kindergartens, for example, in Miskolc, which would mean a two billion loss of resources. So, Minister, I'm asking you to tell me clearly. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] "They have such a plan, they are planning a further austerity of the municipalities; if they do not, they will tell you very clearly, and I ask you that you do not have such a plan and reassure the municipalities. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-02-24-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-136	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you so much for your concern. I know you're one of the MPs who's worried about local governments. In 2002 and 2006 he was elected municipal representative of the city of Miskolc, and even Head of the City of Miskolc. You may remember that in 2010 Miskolc city's debt was HUF 36 billion. Forints 36 billion were collected by the local leaders who were farming there. This debt has been taken over by the government. So, even if you didn't thank me, I feel that your speech reflects the concern that this debt will not happen by chance. I assure you, Congressman, that is not the case. We want every settlement to benefit from the growth of the economy and the improvement of competitiveness in Hungary. As you have said, the National Competitiveness Council discusses competitiveness measures and proposals that it will then send to the government as a proposal. That's what happened in this case. In view of the fact that in recent years the government has significantly reduced the rate of central taxes, think about it: 32 per cent was the rate, now 15 per cent; the rate of corporation tax was 19 per cent, now 9 per cent; the rate of social contribution tax was 27 per cent, now 17.5 per cent, and there are fewer and fewer areas left for central taxes where further tax reductions can improve competitiveness. This is why it came up at the Competitiveness Council that the level of local taxes should also be subject to revision. The government is investigating this proposal for the time being, contrary to your statement, we have already discussed it. Representatives, leaders and mayors of the County City Association were in the Ministry of Finance. After each such decision-making process, the government makes its own decision, so there's nothing to worry about at the moment. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-137	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Sándor Szabó wishes to use the option of a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, To his initial point, we note that the municipalities benefited or did not benefit, because we have done so at every forum, that when you talk about the liquidation of the debts of the municipalities, we have always said that they have taken away significantly more resources than they have taken over from the municipalities, and this has been the case ever since. On the other hand, as far as the trade tax is concerned, Minister, the fact is that we are not the ones who are alarming about this matter, we are not the ones who intimidate the municipalities in this matter, but you made a statement at the Competitiveness Council meeting. Today, the Secretary of State here tells one of my fellow Members that there is a kind of alarm on our side on this subject. Say clearly, you have already said differently today that you do not want to put local governments in this situation and do not want to reduce business tax, from which, of course, municipalities want to invest in public transport, renovation of urban areas and development. Thank you for your answer.
u2020-02-24-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-140	Mr President, Dear House, The government never sews the coat against the button, but vice versa. For us, the goal is to have as many jobs as possible in this country as more people have a decent income so that they can support themselves and their families. This is where the steps that apply to local business tax or even central taxes must be taken. [[16.50]] Therefore, I can say again that there are many proposals on the table, various associations, associations and institutions make proposals, and the government is always considering or considering instruments that serve the long-term growth of the economy. I would like to emphasise once again that the government has taken over HUF 1300 billion of debt from the municipalities after 2010 and has been able to significantly help local authorities to implement their own economic development programmes. It is no coincidence that the rate of local business tax has doubled this year compared to the previous one. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and over 800 billion forints. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-141	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you take responsibility, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga appointed Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-02-24-142	After the Prime Minister has to take responsibility sooner or later, I'll wait for him. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-143	Thank you very much. Congressman, according to the house rules, you have to answer yes or no. [[Gergely Harvestó: Then it is, a no!]] And you, as the notary of the Parliament, need to know that in particular. But I think it was just a slip in your answer. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. When will there be a railway station worthy of Újpest and Rákospalota? It's an address. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State for his absence to respond. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[Laszlo Varju: Yes.]] Thank you very much. The congressman indicated that he would accept the identity of the responder. Congressman László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-144	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor, just because we are in correspondence with Mr Secretary of State on this subject, and the answer to my written question in three paragraphs has shown that, with the support of the European Union, the renovation programme for the busiest railway stations will finally be launched with the name. Within the framework of the programme, MÁV plans to carry out concentrated renovation works at several metropolitan stations, including the Újpest-Rákospalota station. The renovation works have already started at several railway stations in Budapest, some of which have been completed. In the reconstruction of the Újpest-Rákospalota, almost nothing has happened, even though it would be necessary to invest comfortably in order to accommodate passengers in a cultured environment. Mr Secretary, if you had responded in detail in your letter, we would have been in a better position, perhaps we would have escaped today, but you saw that the beginning of the demolition of a warehouse and the replacement of a rail will reassure the Újpestians and the cancer palaces. I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State that the traffic at the railway station is in conflict with the passenger traffic of Zugló or Kőbánya-Kispest. From the area on the Szob-Vác railway partly from far to the capital and partly from the agglomeration to those arriving by car and otherwise from the IV. and XV. in the district, it is used by travelers in the downtown or in the opposite direction, but this building in Újpest-Crab Palota is still in decay. I would also like to ask Minister and Minister of State how important it is for you and in what place is the Újpest-Rákospalota railway station, when Újpest-Rákospalota railway station, and what works are planned to be carried out during the renovation and when they will be carried out. I only ask because it is necessary to have a heated waiting room, a space exchange, accessibility, reshaping of the environment, P+R parking spaces, appropriate restraint system, quality public lighting, even for charging mobile devices, for setting up a USB charging column, which is... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2020-02-24-145	Congressman, I don't know, wasn't it enough to hear me call it off? We're at two minutes 36 seconds!
u2020-02-24-146	Oh, Mr. President, I apologize. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-02-24-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-02-24-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin by saying that your governments have destroyed the railroad, so it is not fair to ask for it. They have completely neglected the development of infrastructure, closed railway lines and put thousands of families in jeopardy with irresponsible transport policy decisions. The national railway company was left behind with a debt of some 300 billion, which was left out of it and not stolen. The first task of Fidesz-KDNP was to consolidate MÁV's debt and to start the necessary improvements that have been missing for several decades. Honourable Congressman, In the last decade, the government has spent some HUF 1300 billion on rail development, and in the next period it will spend almost HUF 1800 billion not only on railway lines and rail transport, but also on passenger comfort improvements. The government is committed to the continuous improvement of the service level of environmentally sound rail transport, so we also consider it important to renovate station buildings receiving passengers. Last year, we started the repair of the Rákospalota-Újpest station, honourable Member, this is what we write about, by sorting out its surroundings, by tearing down the warehouses. In addition, at the station, as you mentioned, there was a partial renovation of three tracks. Honourable Congressman, However, the renovation of the railway station continues. In the coming years, it is planned that the station hall, the entrance building facade, the waiting room and the passenger-side rooms will be renovated, the overpass will be partially renovated, the spatial lighting will be upgraded and accessibility works will also be carried out. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-150	Thank you very much. If you could think of Mr Secretary of State's first sentences, irresponsibleness and theft, your own government, it would be much easier for you to work, because then you could assess in a realistic environment how to rebuild the Újpest-Rákospalota railway station. At the same time, I think it can only be repeated that there is a need for a heated waiting room, a replacement of toilets, accessibility, re-enhancing of the environment, a P+R parking lot. What you have said in your reply, I consider it a commitment and a promise that you can and will be accountable for, even because you have not said a deadline, although it is not the coming years that are interesting here, because the population needs these services as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-02-24-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder shall be given to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-152	Honourable Congressman, MÁV Zrt. serves to improve the quality of railway stations. The programme of 50 renewable stations, the construction of which was started in 2018 and aims to carry out renovations and improvements to the passenger comforts directly felt by the public. These improvements are necessary and these improvements should be scheduled at railway stations and stations. This should take into account the volume of work planned, the resource needs and the time needed for planning, licensing and other preparatory work. The individual stations will be renovated taking them into account. We would be in a much simpler situation if you hadn't stolen the MÁV and had enough resources to carry out these developments earlier, but first we had to consolidate the company, and then there would be an opportunity, time and money to implement the improvements. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you take responsibility, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mihály Varga appointed Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Here you go. [[Sándor Szabó, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2020-02-24-154	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I would like to ask you a question of a kind that only the Prime Minister can answer. So I'll definitely wait for you to come in and answer the question. Thank you.
u2020-02-24-155	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. [[17.00]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Do not tolerate it quietly." Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to his absence. [[On the mark of Krisztina Hohn:]] I see that the congresswoman accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-156	Thank you very much for the floor. First, I'm gonna ask you two questions so we don't have time. How do they try to ensure that system professionals work in close cooperation to minimise injuries to victims? Second, how do you intend to bring to light the cases that are currently feared by fear? The Minister called on the opposition not to cause hysteria on this subject. I have no intention of hystericalisation, and I can prove that by telling you that we have exchanged several letters with Mr Secretary of State, in which I have received very positive answers, such as the start of a series of professional and civil consultations, which I believe to be helpful. It is very good that a family law expert working group has been set up, which, in addition to the ministries concerned, is also composed of the professional leaders of constitutional bodies. It's very good and really positive. But we have to draw attention, I think, by all means, because if you've read the press, then a man has passed away in the last few days, unfortunately he's also been killed because of relationship violence. There are a lot of cases like this, domestic violence. I use that word on purpose, although it is regularly corrected for relationship violence, but I think it's not just about that. And I'm not saying no on purpose, I mean, it's a male or a female victim, because we get it, and we know that there are also male victims in domestic violence. It is always the stronger one who, unfortunately, tries to hurt the weaker one, which is why it is very important to point out that it affects children and the elderly. That is why we consider it very important to take every opportunity to speak on this matter. Thank you.
u2020-02-24-157	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I have already said, Mrs Völner accepted it, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. And to avoid embezzlement, I will also try to start by focusing on the two questions. One is that in the letters I also referred to the fact that the family law expert group has already been established and has identified issues that help to address this situation, so how to achieve even better application of existing legislation, how to protect women and children, how to impose more serious criminal sanctions, this is all on this issue. How latency can be reduced, I would say that if I had the Philosopher's Stone, I would have a sure answer, but obviously every debate, every case with a positive assessment, or a case with a positive view to society's sense of justice, can help to reduce the latency. The type of data management, the relation to these issues, through the operation of victim support centres, or even through the operation of the authorities, can all serve as a positive image that revives the kind of courage of those suffering to do so. What I would like to add is that this week the thematic working group of the Working Group on Human Rights, which deals with human rights, where we will also report on the progress of this work with countless invited civil society organisations, and, of course, when the legal backgrounds that are being prepared on the professional side are being put into a social debate, and also in Parliament, I hope that we will be able to discuss them in a very open atmosphere and move in a positive direction. I think that this matter should unite everyone on this subject and within the framework of Parliament's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-160	Thank you very much. Of course, I don't have the Philosopher's Stone either, but, as you said, if there were many positive cases, there would certainly be more courage for those who do not dare to turn to the authorities at the moment. Unfortunately, victim error is very common, and I think that it might be possible to focus on this, with some kind of sensitive, social advertisements or any campaign movies that draw attention to domestic violence, and that this should not be kept quiet, because there are people who might know what's going on next door, what happens to children or, where appropriate, their wives and husbands. It's not the domestic violence that a drunken husband beats a wife, and I think this stereotype should be refined somehow, it should be removed, but it's not gonna go so fast. That there should be no victim error, I have to say it over and over again, because at the moment it is that they are about to begin with the fact that they surely deserve to be beaten by X. or Y. Thank you.
u2020-02-24-161	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think that there is no debate between us on these issues as to how we can move forward as effectively and as quickly as possible, at the most, where we need each other's help. I can promise you that both the Ministry of Justice and the Minister can experience maximum commitment in the negotiation of these matters. The concept of "relationship violence" has yet to be mentioned. We insist on this term because it can cover a much wider circle, so not only in domestic cases, but also where there are no family ties, but the nature of the relationship is clear. I ask you to do everything you can, like politicians, to think of Klára Dobrev, Zita Gurmai, and also to do this in the comments that appear on Facebook posters. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'll ask for your cooperation in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your cooperation. I give the chair to my vice-president, István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-02-24-164	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Due to his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga appointed Deputy Prime Minister for his response. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-02-24-165	I won't accept it. I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-166	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[By car-Cake Olivio:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I saw that Fidesz held its season opening meeting in Balatonfüred. They must have enjoyed the environment, enjoyed the fresh air, enjoyed the sight of Lake Balaton, enjoyed the nature. Now, this is what Hungarian people would like to enjoy now, but still in ten years' time, but your activities do not point in the direction that it will remain this way: the Hungarian people have less and less chance of enjoying the same Balaton that we can find today. The coastal investments of recent years make not only the shore of the lake inaccessible to all of us, but the investors near Fidesz are destroying the lake's surroundings, destroying reeds and woody areas in order to build luxury hotels and luxury apartments. This may be the reason why civilians protested against you in Balatonfüred and gave you a petition: The Collaboration for Balaton started a petition to prevent further destruction of the Balaton environment. These civilians have made the following demands: let there be more free beaches, stop cutting reeds, stop cutting wood, do not build an industrial port and stone loader at Vonyarcvashegy, prepare an environmental impact assessment of each development and investment, and finally want civilian control of the development. [[17.10]] Dear Secretary of State, Will you comply with the requests of local civilians? Would the government like to help Balaton's access to the waterfront not only to decrease, but to increase? Do you intend to exercise the State's pre-emptive right to the coastal areas, which is provided for in the Lake Balaton Act? Does the government wish to help municipalities financially so that they can exercise this pre-emptive right? In addition to several properties, the Hungarian National Asset Manager also has a government resort in Balatonősdöd [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's for sale. How do you intend to guarantee that the coastal section of the resort is available? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-168	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-24-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I thought, at the first moment and from our earlier correspondence, that there would be no debate between us, but then there was a debate between us. It's just a genre, and now, if I count it correctly, it's been going on for about a year and a half. The law adopted in 2018, which concerns Hungary's new spatial planning plans, was adopted by the Parliament after about four years of preparatory work, professional and social consultation. From your perspective, I believe that basically political criticisms are dating around from the adoption of the new law. Two aspects must be taken into account at the same time for each such law. One is that the capacity to invest in spatial planning serves the economic growth of our country. Secondly, spatial planning must clearly serve the common good and spatial planning must also comply with the principles of environmental sustainability. I think that this law meets these expectations, and for the first time in Hungary's history, it allows for a single digital free land office database, on the basis of which the changes that we are all talking about and for which we sometimes speak with caution or with careful support can be monitored. In this law, the main role and significance of the Balaton area remain. And I think it is quite clear that this new law has also taken into account the results achieved by the preventive regulation, it continues to maintain and strengthen the conservation of coastal public land use, the survival and accessibility of beaches, campsites, recreational green areas, coastal promenades; and, moreover, the rules on the maintenance of traditional land use in background settlements, such as vine cultivation, which are also key in the case of Balatonfüred. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-171	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, That was a very bypassing answer. It will not be possible to lay down a towel on Lake Balaton in such a way that it will not benefit István Tiborcz or Lőrinc Mészáros. They build luxury apartments and luxury properties on Lake Balaton. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán says no to his head.]] Secretary of State nodding, but why do they keep protesting there? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I'm shaking my head.]] He's shaking his head. I'm sorry. Why do civilians keep protesting? Why are they upset if, for example, they want to build an industrial port? The Dialogue visualizes a walking Balaton that can be cycled around; it imagines a Balaton where ordinary Hungarians can stay cheaply in private accommodations. We imagine a Balaton where we coordinate development with local people and civilians, where not the people of power are developing, but where we build the Balaton together with the power of the people. You don't build such a Balaton, and believe me, the local people don't want such a Balaton. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and in 2022 at the latest, they will vote so that they can show you this.
u2020-02-24-172	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-173	Well, that's what I'm talking about, Mr honourable Member, because that means that the picture of Balaton envisaged by the Dialogue corresponds to the picture of Balaton as envisaged by the government. So there really shouldn't be a debate between us here. We have been arguing about the adoption of the law for a year and a half, although it is written in black and white that the possibilities for installation on the waterfront have continued to be tightened compared to the previous regulation, where new areas for installation cannot be designated and there is no possibility of increasing installation intensity in already built-in areas. The protection of campsites and beaches has also been tightened, their reclassification is only possible if green areas are designated, and it is not possible to increase the installation in these areas either. So the problem that the Member raises in this way here, in front of the Parliament, is, in our view, not. The goal is common, the Balaton people, the Balaton leaders and the government are united in their commitment to the development of Lake Balaton and to preserve our natural environment. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, F Sándor Kovács, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, By what means does the Government intend to protect equal education from the influence of Soros organisations? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-24-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday was the day of the Free Pearl Patch! Free court! A demonstration with passwords. 98 percent of the people of Gyöngyöspata said no to this event, because this is just a political action aimed at putting Hungary on the bench of defendants in the context of some petty criminal proceedings. The organizers of the protests exposed themselves. In addition to the demonstration, TASZ, Helsinki, Teachers, Amnesty are all included in the Soros Foundation's payment list. These organisations regard Gypsy as merely a tool to stimulate tension in Hungarian-Romanian coexistence [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] This will also make it impossible to solve real problems in a good, fair and effective way. As so many times so far, they are trying to intervene in Hungarian internal politics in order to drive away the legitimate national government, to which they intend to plant their own puppets. That's what the whole protest was about, and so was the whole case. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches. Nacsa Lawrence: Exactly!]] According to press reports, a study published by a human rights expert, a Frenchman named Gregor Puppinck, supports clear data: there are serious personal interactions between the Soros network and the Strasbourg court. The number of judges previously employed by a Soros NGO is very high. Why don't you hear your voice now, in addition to the integrity of judicial autonomy, other times, so loudly speaking, yelling rights defenders? Thanks to the results of recent years, Gypsy life has opened the way to work and study-based life instead of aid-based life. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This difficult situation must be preserved. In the light of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: what means does the government intend to protect equal education by Soros organisations? [[The president's ringing again.]] of influence? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-176	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-24-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is clear that these various organizations are primarily the CFCF Foundation, which operates from the money of György Soros in the overwhelming majority, according to its own accounts the Soros grant was over 90 percent several times in the annual budget, but usually the money received is over 70-80 percent, it goes from settlement to settlement, and it looks for new cases from which it can start lawsuits. There is, therefore, a situation where Soros' funded foundation tries to sue as many as possible either to obtain compensation or to close schools, but it is an important factor for each of them to create a political scandal. Meanwhile, György Soros and his son, as well as some of the leaders of his institute in a joint video, said a few weeks ago that the new field in which political battles are to be conducted in Hungary is the area of gypsyism, where political capital must be used, and then organisations supported by Soros try to strengthen this other Soros organization here in Budapest with a demonstration, where, according to one organizer, much more people were expected and much fewer people arrived. The least they could have come from Gyöngyöspata for this demonstration. There's probably more of them coming in on II. district or XII, like Gyöngyöspata. Well, they're planning such a protest, and then they want to take these procedures to international court forums where there are as many judges as possible who have previously been involved in a Soros scholarship or a Soros organizational work. This includes 444 and the Hungarian Orange and other media operating from Soros-money, which obviously conceals this underlying part, tells the rest of it, and asks for anyone to be downplayed. Usually the person who gets the most money is the one who asks for it the most. And who's the victim of this? The Pearl Pata students. Because they wanted to study in peace, together at school. [[17.20]] Compared to this, people have come from a distance, who have apostulated themselves or about the gender theme in connection with immigration, and the state that was there has made it much more tense. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2020-02-24-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We are living in a historic moment, because perhaps in Hungarian history it is not difficult to look for a time when it is possible to raise and catch up with our compatriots in difficulty. I come from a region in Tiszabura and Tiszabő settlements where we are taking steps to catch up with the Roma population living there. It's hard work, it's exhausting work, but there's hope. These international organizations, by means of agents they pay here, want to destroy this job, that's the hope they want to take away from young people, from children who can catch up. Gypsy children who can be worthy, rich and skilled members of this society. Mr Secretary of State, I would like the Government, please, my fellow Hungarian and Roma countrymen, not to allow this to happen. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, To further spin the idea to the Member of the Council, as you said, at the beginning of our governance, the employment rate among the Roma was somewhere around a quarter, and now it has risen to 50 percent. Similarly, the proportion of people exposed to poverty decreased by about a third. We can also say that the number of gypsy students has doubled; we can also say that the difference between Roma and non-Gypsy women in wages has decreased from 37.3 percent to 28 percent, also to a noticeable extent. So these scissors start closing. A positive social process begins to begin, and this organization, a problem situation created by socialist governments or during their time, is being raised into a political scandal under a Fidesz-KDNP government, so that Hungary can be branded as a racist abroad. We are not going to let this happen, and we are asking for the support of the people, because the Hungarian government will receive numerous attacks, primarily from abroad, and our allies were the Hungarian people in every such attack, so we ask that as many people take part in the national consultation as possible. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-182	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Due to his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga appointed Deputy Prime Minister for his response. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, How credible the government's policy is, we ask you from time to time, because we believe that the government focuses only on the production of propaganda rather than on real government. Another sign of this is the problem with declarations of assets. Allow me to shed some light on what I'm thinking. As you know, it has already been said in the last session, until 31 January, all Members of Parliament have handed down their own and their family's declarations of property, fulfilling their legal obligations, but as these declarations of property have been made public, we have seen that the expectations of honesty have indeed been impaired in some places. If you like it, Minister, you don't take this opportunity seriously. For many years, we Parliamentary representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement have made public not only the declarations of property of our own family members living in the same household, so that the current financial situation of our politicians and their families can be monitored on the Internet every year. That is what we expect from you, because we believe that this is the zeroth step in the fight against corruption. The first question is, why are you afraid of that? Dear Minister, We know your head stinks of fish. Fidesz means that Viktor Orbán will dictate the pace to you, do as he says. Accordingly, I ask you: how credible do you think Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, is in relation to the declaration of assets? How credible is the Prime Minister who has not been able to save a single forint from his high, albeit unsurpassed remuneration, and even lived up to his small savings last year? What example does he set for the Hungarian population? Spend everything, live for today? Carpe diem? Because it doesn't occur to you, Minister, that the Prime Minister of Hungary didn't take the property declaration seriously, did it? In this connection, I look forward to your substantive reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-184	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2020-02-24-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The rules for filing a declaration of assets have been unchanged for years. As you well know, every member of the Hungarian Parliament, every representative of the Hungarian Parliament, is obliged to issue such a declaration of property. The deadline provided for these is also known to you, when these declarations of property are made, then you or anyone else have the right to object or comment on them. I think that Parliament has been able to make significant progress in recent years in order to make these rules as precise as possible. I would like to refer here to the fact that the committee on immunity, conflict of interest, disciplinary and mandate review regularly renews the forms through which everyone has to prepare their assets, indicate the assets of the various movable and immovable property. If you have any objections to this, Mr President, you should take advantage of the possibilities of your Members, initiate investigations of this type, but it is incomprehensible, without content, to purely political accusations, I believe that Parliament does not have to respond. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-186	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-02-24-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, You are banging open gates when you ask me to take action, because on 11 February, I tabled a bill-modifying proposal, which is exactly what you have considered to be unchanged for years, although somewhat contradictoryly, constantly refined rules. In this amendment, we would like the declaration of property to be made public by family members, and we would like these declarations to be submitted only on the Internet in digital form, thus creating a database in which the propertyisation of Members can be monitored. And what is very important is that we recommend that we proceed with an assetisation process both at the beginning of the cycle and at the end of the cycle. This would allow us to see how and what kind fellow Members, dear fellow politicians, have used the budgetary resources, the public funds they have received. This motion awaits a series of subjects. Do you think there's any reason, Minister, that this should be included in a series of subjects? I ask you to support us in this, and to be credible, if not in any other way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-188	Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your report. We listened to what he was up to here. Parliamentary Member, you have the opportunity to turn to the majority or the whole of Parliament with any initiative. I urge you to take this opportunity, and if Parliament considers your proposal well-founded and to be negotiated, it will discuss it. Obviously, there are many ways to relate to wealth declarations, to the issue of wealth returns. Every four years, however, voters are putting on the balance not only the political work that we are doing in Parliament, but also whether there has been a change in this area or not. I feel that in recent years the government has taken the opportunities and the necessary steps to comply and enforce legislation. And if you're going to make an initiative, we'll certainly decide that. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-190	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - How does the government support fertility management procedures in order to encourage childbearing? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-02-24-191	I accept, Mr. President.
u2020-02-24-192	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-24-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government is focused on family. For this reason, since 2010, the government has doubled the support for families by taking particularly positive measures for all age groups in the family. [[17 .30]] Allow me to mention just a few of the past. The first step of Fidesz-KDNP was the launch of a new family support system, which introduced family tax relief. As a further measure, the government restored the three-year child and introduced the diplomat in addition to raising the maximum amount of the child. The housing support was introduced, which was replaced by CSOK as of July 1, 2015, and has already been requested by more than 110 thousand families for more than HUF 340 billion. Dear Secretary of State, Many families want to have children. There is also a family that needs help to do this, since for some biological reason, they did not have a child. To this end, it is essential to establish the evidence of infertility, to establish a personalised treatment plan and to support the treatment itself and the whole process. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: how does the government support fertility management procedures in order to encourage childbearing? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government sought to ensure that families who wanted to have children met as few obstacles as possible. The purpose of the family support system you mentioned was to ensure that those who feel that there are financial obstacles to childbearing or further childbearing will be removed, and the plan that the government has decided to help barren couples in the past year, which is to overcome these biological barriers, fertility problems, if medical science can cure it today. From 1 February 2020, testing fertility for both men and women has now become completely free of charge for everyone, with a cost of nearly HUF 4.4 billion per year. In total, 100% of the medicines used in the treatment of infertility and new medicines have been included, with 100 percent support, this is also 1.6 billion HUF enlargement. We hope that with these enlarged options, which, on the one hand, represents the growing network of state fertility centers in more and more parts of the country, and with fully 100% pharmaceutical treatments, more than 4 thousand more babies can be born by 2022. There are now 12 modern, state-reserved fertility centers in Debrecen, Pécs, Budapest, Kaposvár, Győr, Szeged, Tapolca, Budapest, Káli Institute is now, both in Budapest, the country headquarters and the establishment are state-owned and operated, and we trust that this will help the barren couples. And what is very important is that from this year on, it is completely TVK-free, both the process of fertilization and embryo implantation. We hope that soon, then, all quasi-waiting lists will be eliminated, and everyone waiting for this kind of intervention. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You can have the chance to have your own child as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-196	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-197	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, thank you for your reply. Thank you, because the future of our Hungarian nation is in the common interest of all of us, so it is in our mutual interest to live in a country where they encourage childbearing and help raise children. It is a happy fact to me that I can live in a country like this in Hungary today. Furthermore, it is a joyful fact that the number of abortions in our country is constantly decreasing and fertility treatments are also getting worse. I also ask the government to stick to the family policy measures that have been started, and even if our country's economic performance allows it to be further strengthened; to further strengthen the possibility for all children who wish to be born. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-24-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We all experience in our everyday life that more and more couples, more and more young people are facing a very difficult situation that there is a problem with having children, and this is a situation that is likely to continue to grow and grow with the life form of civilization. Even now, this is a problem for about one in seven couples, but as this way of life continues to grow, it is likely that this number will not decrease. That is why it was important for the government to have a basically public responsibility, free, power volume-free, so unlimited... i.e. there are medical boundaries, the first child is financed by the state, and then a further 4-4-4 of the additional child-taking, which is a far higher number than in other European countries, so that in a situation that affects more and more people and is obviously going to affect more and more in our current social situation, we should now offer additional opportunities, on the one hand, by raising the amount of aid to a maximum of 100 per cent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, on the other hand, the establishment of a national network. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-200	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is T/9241. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai, rapporteur of the committee. I would also ask that, if possible, honourable Members, at least not speak so loudly that it is not possible to pay any attention to the chair of the sitting. Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that left-wing opposition parties are absolutely not interested in this debate, and I have all the honours of the Jobbik Hungary Movement that they still show some interest at the end of the debate on the draft law. So, indeed, the left-wing parties are fully covering for the prison business. Mr President, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 21 February 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9241 on immediate measures to eliminate the abuse of prison congestion compensation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 30 votes in favour, 2 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In recent years, people's sense of social justice has been thoroughly disturbed by court judgments, which oblige the Hungarian State to pay large amounts of financial compensation, namely those who committed a crime and are therefore serving a final sentence of imprisonment. They claim that the Hungarian State does not provide them with humane detention conditions. The fact and reality is that in the framework of the prison business, 12,000 damages lawsuits were filed against the Hungarian state, and the state paid nearly HUF 9 billion compensation to criminals and lawyers. It's a telltale number that 70 percent of this nearly 9 billion landed on legal deposit accounts. The nearly 9 billion-dollar industry, running under the name of prison business, clearly realizes the abuse of rights, damages the Hungarian state, destroys public trust in justice and violates the sense of justice of the people. [[17.40]] A number of cases have ruffled the sense of the people and the public, such as the 6 million forints awarded to the Italian lynchmen, the 2 million forints awarded to the Battonya monster, or the 45 million forints for compensation granted to the Burka family, despite the fact that in these cases very serious crimes against life have been committed. There is a need to restore the balance between victims and perpetrators, in which the rights and interests of victims must be considered to be higher than compensation paid for crimes committed by perpetrators. Today, in Hungary, it is necessary to make it clear and clear to everyone that criminals are not rewarded by millions, but by punishment. In view of what has been said, I call for the support of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to take advantage of this opportunity. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP Group.
u2020-02-24-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I also find it outrageous that left-wing parties do not want to participate in this important decision in any way, and even when they took part in the debate on Thursday outside the Dialogue, which was not even willing to comment in the debate, they were only covering for the prison business. They were so afraid to pronounce the name of György Magyar that they could feel the terror in the room. Obviously, Magyar György gave it to them as their former candidate, their advisor, their lawyer, that it was not possible to talk about it as one of the biggest winners of the prison business. I also find it outrageous that you are not trying to side with the victims. Jobbik demanded better conditions in the debate, almost wellness hotel conditions in prison as well. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: That's a lie, and you know it.]] when, by the way, five years ago, he was going to be transported to Siberia by the current mayor of Eger. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: Five years ago, we were the only ones who voted against this!]] five years ago, the current Mayor of Eger, Ádám Mirkóczki, wanted to transport the prisoners in Hungary on behalf of Jobbik to Siberia. [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: You brought it up! You voted in 2016!]] We think criminals should be punished, not rewarded. We'd like to stop the system where murderers, rapists, robbers come out of prison with millions of rewards. We'd like to stop him while we can remember that, by the way. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] While remembering the degree of crime in Hungary in the pre-2010 period. During the Gyurcsány government there were 420-430 thousand registered crimes in Hungary, which decreased to less than 200 thousand by 2019 to 199 thousand, so the number of registered crimes in Hungary has decreased by more than half. The completed manslaughter was reduced from 147 to 58. I believe that strict criminal policy, the three strikes introduced and the judicial system that has been in place since 2010 have resulted. Following this proposal and suspension, and then taking part in the national consultation, all the legislative proposals and decisions to be taken are designed to continue this rigorous criminal policy. We are also asking people on this issue to give their views on prison business in the forthcoming national consultation, to give their views on who is entitled to compensation, victims or criminals, because that is the question here. I call on the opposition parties to change their position until tomorrow's vote and to support the suspension and then the completion of the prison business. Obviously, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament supports this, but I hope that this one night will be enough for the opposition to be able to support and stop covering for lawyers and criminals. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group.
u2020-02-24-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I don't know what Lőrinc Nacsa has been listening to here lately, and what he's said here about what he's learned from what we've been talking about in prison business in the House of Parliament. Well, I think Jobbik is the last one to say that we need wellness prisons in Hungary. It is Jobbik, whose program included the elimination of the wellness prisons in 2010, 2014 and always, and the elimination of the conditions that create such conditions in Hungary. It was in Jobbik's program. Now, compared to that, my dear fellow Member Nacsa, what you were talking about, start talking about who voted for this law in 2016. Who made it possible that in Hungary... yes, Congressman Nacsa, because Congressman Nacsa was not in Parliament, but his fellow Members, the KDNP fraction, the Fidesz faction, voted as one, the law which was based on the establishment of prison business in Hungary. You were the ones who created the opportunity, the amount was determined, and the prisoners could not receive less than 1200 HUF per day, even on the basis of discretion, if the accommodation conditions were inadequate. Well, did we want a spa prison, or did you want a spa prison? All we wanted to do, and we said this many times, was that the money you paid from the Hungarian state's cash register, which was paid out of public money, the Hungarian taxpayer's money, the amount between HUF 8.5 and HUF 9 billion, could have been built two prisons in Hungary, and this would have largely solved the problem of judging the prisoners with various compensations due to overcrowding. And we do find it outrageous, and in the course of the 2016 legislative debate, we also said that it would be an outrageous and unfair thing for society as a whole if this law were to be adopted. My fellow Member Gábor Staudt has told you several times here that if this is to be introduced, this will certainly be a business specialization, and this will cause enormous social outrage. He also said at the time, in 2016, that it was not the prisoners who had to pay the compensation, but that we should look primarily at the benefit of the victims, the compensation of the victims and the taking up of the victims. That's what made it a first-rate goal that you didn't care about. In fact, there were even exceptions to the law that the millions, those millions, those millions, could not be implemented in the same way as all the others, such as the wages of an average worker, of which one third can be banned, where appropriate, even half of them with child support. In this case, even this could not be done, child support, yes, but much else could not be done. For example, a convict was in a much more favourable position than a completely honest worker who was never convicted and was trapped in a currency-loaning trap, because foreign currency credit could indeed be banned from his salary and the indemnification of the condemned could not be blocked. So you have placed the prisoners in a special, privileged position, which the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always criticized. So if someone once stood on the sidelines of the convicts, my honourable fellow Members, then it was Fidesz and KDNP in 2016, which made prison business possible. You refer to a lot of things, you refer to serialists, you refer to all kinds of pseudo-rights organisations and left-wing organizations, and you refer to everything, and I read in one place alone that at the end of 2014 the government was drawn to the attention of the government that it would be a business, and law firms would specialize in doing so, which would benefit from this business, and this was the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. As early as 2014, he described this experience that this is going to happen in Hungary, but what you have done is that you have introduced this law in order to enable law firms and everyone to draw millions and billions of dollars from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, just to make people rich. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Slide!]] You brought this situation, of course, now you want to put that thing back in the horse, and even you want to get out of it from a communication point of view, as if it were your fault that you were the champions of the truth. Even though you created this unfair situation. If we have really come to what is on the agenda today, I would like to say that we have just tabled amendments to this proposal, because it could have been better now, just as you have done in 99 percent of the cases, the opposition proposals are constantly not accepted, they are constantly being swept off the table. [[17.50]] Because I ask the huge question: if you're involved in this, that you have to resolve this situation by 30 September, then how are you going to resolve this situation? I beg of you, please respond to this. There are two options. One: until September 30, prisons are being built, and 3,000 people are being placed, which now, by causing overcrowding, is considered to be above the system; in order for the placement to be only a hundred percent, it is necessary to create 3,000 new seats. Will it be built until 30 September 2020? That's one of the options. Obviously, it is absolutely impossible for this to happen, since you have done nothing in the last five years to build new prisons. The other option is that you will introduce amnesty, and 3,000 criminals will be released to the streets on 30 September to implement this resolution. There's no other way. This is precisely what we have tabled a legislative amendment. We said not to have amnesty, but to build the prisons. From that HUF 8.5 to 9 billion, it would have been possible to build two prisons, but you paid for it to the law firms and the convicts instead of being on the side of the victims and the Hungarian nation. I have repeatedly called on you to apologize to the Hungarian people for what they have done over the past four years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-206	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that there is a time-frame debate, so there is no possibility of a two-minute speech. Please indicate your intention to speak within a normal time frame. I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Then let's have names: Happy István, Völner Pál, Pan-czél Károly, Molnár Ágnes went out, Szászfalvi László, Dr. Zoltán Kovács. You were the ones who voted in 2016 for the law that made the prisoners millionaires. It's that simple in communication. That's what you have to say in this case. We learned it from you, it's a shame to nod on that. It was you who unleashed this on the people in 2016. It's a shame to do anything about it. Congressman Nacsa, there is one thing that should have been done: If you would like to add that the Fidesz-KDNP fraction - minus Viktor Orbán, because he was once again more tactical than you, because he did not vote for it, so the Fidesz-KDNP fraction apologizes for doing so in 2016 and found out. It is not a mistake, believe me, fellow Members, we do too. You're wrong, and you can correct that. You guys found out you were wrong. Nothing else happened. It has to be written that we apologize for being wrong and for making the prisoners millionaires at the time of their release. But don't do one thing, and don't take it away from Jobbik in 2016 or Jobbik now, that you are still on the side of the law and order. Because we said it wasn't good, it wouldn't be good what they did, we put in the amendment, we came to it with good intentions, and we're doing it now. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most important one. You have to be on the side of the law. We are very happy that you have realized that this business has to be eliminated, that we are partners, that we will be partners, that only then be consistent, that look people in the eye, and that we have realized that we have made a mistake and that we need to change that. And those Members who were mentioned and voted by name should be the first to say so when they consult on this, that they are sorry, but I voted for it. In fact, Pál Völner not only voted in favour but also represented the Government's wrong position in this debate. He owes you a double apology. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-208	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2020-02-24-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I just started by saying what a pity it is that left-wing parties do not participate in this debate. Well, I was wrong because the Hungarian voice of Ágnes Vadai was Csaba Gyure [[An uproar on the opposition side.]] So it's all right, you're here in the debate, and you don't have to be ashamed of it. It's a combination of things that belong to each other. László Lukács also admitted that we should not compare Jobbik 2016 to the current Jobbik, so that there are several Jobbiks, right now the left is sitting here. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It is not your fault that you are like this. We forgive you!]] Thank you very much for the thoughts of Mr Csaba Gyüre and Mr László Lukács. It is clear that the congressmen have an opinion on prison business, and they will explain that. I ask you to do this in the national consultation and to give your opinion there, because we are also curious about the opinion of the people, your opinion, there. So I'm asking you to give your opinion there. It's just a piece of data, which, of course, you know exactly, you don't want to hear about until it's over. If the law of 2016 had not been passed and the lawsuits had not been returned from Strasbourg, the Hungarian State would have had to pay an amount of more than HUF 30-40 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of State Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Jobbik still has a time frame, so I thought I'd let you know first. Although my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, said what my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, remembered in his speech as a speaker, that it was actually accepted because the lawsuits in Strasbourg would have cost the Hungarian State 30-40 billion forints more. So let's just say we're talking about a compensatory step in this case. Secondly, Jobbik did not offer any competitive offers when, in 2016, there was a debate on this law, which would have protected the damages lawsuits in Strasbourg, protected taxpayers' money, and directed the compensation and compensation amounts towards the victims, as is the case in the current legislation. And that kind of approach, it seems, is typical of you that you have already recognised that this is a business and that it can be acted unlawfully, in fact, misuse of the right in these matters and can be generated by its mass. This foresight has indeed been in your mind, which shows that your mindset is close to those whose lawyers win these lawsuits. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-212	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai, Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-24-213	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought I did not have to argue in this debate. I don't really want to deal with what my fellow Member Luke said, because it's not his profession to keep the cobbler at his feet. But Csaba Gyüre was a disgrace to my colleague. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Why am I not a lawyer?]] Congressman, you're slipping, not telling the truth. The truth is what Secretary Völner said. You know that, because you worked in this profession; you know very well what this was all about. And indeed, if this decision is not made then, it does not cost the Hungarian State that much, but three times that much. You've got to understand that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why have you not incorporated this into the law?]] Congressman, I'd be very happy to hear from you. I'd be happy to argue with you if you'd understand. But you didn't touch it either, but you heard something and something... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't you decide who knows what. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, I respect your time, which is still up there, press a button and speak to him. But let us really try to debate this issue under normal circumstances. So Csaba Gyüre was essentially slipping on this issue, not saying what he knows about the reality of this issue. The reality is that if we hadn't taken over these lawsuits, the Hungarian state would have had to pay nearly HUF 30 billion or perhaps more. And if you really support this, and you do not say what DK said, because you said here, Congressman Gyüre, that people will be released from prison, Ágnes Vadai scares Hungarian society with the same thing. Looks like I made a mistake here when I said the left side was on the side of the prison business because you were there. You're standing there, too, if you say the same thing as DK or MSZP, then you're standing there and you're ashamed of yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-02-24-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, who has indicated his intention to speak in writing, he has only just returned from the TAB meeting. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-215	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I also thought that there was no longer any need to comment on this debate for a long time, since everyone in the general debate has already expressed their views in great detail, but my fellow Members have rebutted me. You're talking about prison business. Right now, prison business is an opportunity for your legal situation. You will tell us that everyone knows what is real and what caused it, what made it necessary to adopt this legislation in 2016. Then why hasn't this been communicated openly to Hungarian citizens? Why didn't they communicate this when this proposal was presented in 2016 and why didn't they try to explain what is real, as they are now? I would also like to ask, Mr State Secretary, why, if you knew what was going on, this bill had to be brought to an extraordinary meeting. Why do you have to come up with this all of a sudden? Why wasn't he in the legislative plan? Furthermore, if you are really seeking a solution, in the current situation, which, I repeat, you have produced, and not only by creating a legislative environment, but by failing to build prisons and improve conditions, you have been ruling for ten years, so if you have created such a situation, then why are you squandering the opposition? Why would they launch such a stupid campaign of propaganda? Why are they launching a national consultation when they know exactly what is real and what is the solution? [[18.00]] You prove to you that the whole thing is a political instrument, a political instrument that you want to build on your own mistakes and omissions. We have heard a general debate, we have heard the Secretary of State speak a lot in the press, but we have not yet received answers to very simple and clear questions. I am taking advantage of the opportunity that the Secretary of State is here to answer the question as to why the prison constructions announced in 2017 have become nothing, what is expected now, so there will be budgetary resources to finally build these seats. This proposal also provides that the utilisation should be reduced to 100 per cent within very, very limited time limits. Mr Secretary, there was a rather interesting debate here during the general debate, opposition representatives asked if they would now release prisoners in bulk and you said that they would not. Then I would very much ask the Secretary of State to present this section of reality and this side of it to the Hungarian public, how they are trying to create 100 percent utilisation in a very short period of time. I have one more question: Article 5 of this legislation. According to the Secretary of State, who will stand the test of constitutionality? Thank you.
u2020-02-24-216	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group, to the time available, for one minute and 22 seconds.
u2020-02-24-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would say to Secretary of State Völner that we have only recognized the flaws of the system, but you have taken advantage of the flaws of this system. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] and if our proposal had been adopted in 2016, my fellow Member from Buda, then we should not have counted which version of the Hungarian state and Hungarian taxpayers would be worse, because they would not have been worse. And I would add that there is finally a proposal in which we agree, and it shows very well that your hobby is coming from KDNP's Eric Cartman, and it starts pointing out to the opposition that we are to blame. Well, I'm begging you, let's go. Take a look at yourselves. Thank you.
u2020-02-24-218	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-219	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, One always hopes that the opposition may expect some objectivity or some fairness in the negotiation of such a bill. If you look at it factually, Csaba Gyüre, who is a lawyer, said that alimony can be deducted in prison, but not debt related to foreign exchange lending. We all know that you, too, Congressman, and do not mistake those who are not lawyers, that alimony precedes everything, so in this respect, your explanation is misplaced. The other thing I would like to say is that several people have already referred to the fact that there was a particular situation, the situation arising from the judgments of the Court of Strasbourg, has had to be touched, because if it stays that way and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre actually said that if we hadn't touched it in 2016, in which you didn't otherwise support us, we would have had to pay multiples in the past period. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why didn't you build prisons?!]] It's a step forward of the system, because it's actually a business world. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: But you let him! You did it!]] How to change that. If there were no legislation, Hungarian legislation, then Strasbourg... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Before him!]] Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, my dear fellow Member! You keep saying to everyone, "Here, press the button, and you'll talk to him next time you get a word." [[Defiance.]] May I tell you, my dear fellow Member? Push the button. [[László Szászfalvi: You have 35 seconds to use!]] We've got 35 seconds... [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's enough!]] 35 seconds, in that time... [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Hand over KDNP! A statement from the ruling parties: That's enough for him! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Hand it over, you are not enough! The president's ringing the bell.]] I remember once, back in 2010, our fellow Member, András Tállai, had a time-frame just to get lost for a few minutes, if the President will allow it, into the past! [[Defiance.]] Then the MSZP ran out of time, couldn't speak any longer, had five seconds left, and then Congressman Tállai said that our time had run out, and yours was over. But now I don't... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is this supposed to be a joke? Because he didn't come over!]] No, it's an old story. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Laszlo Szászfalvi: Say this every four years! He's dreaming of a hungry pig!]] About the subject... [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] As far as the subject is concerned, so that Mr Luke does not jump out of his skin between the benches, I would like to say that everyone has a responsibility in this regard, including those who did not support the proposal in 2016 and those who do not support the pro-government proposal now have a responsibility. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: And he who has not built the prisons also has responsibility?!]] Because that's what Congressman Völner was talking about. Therefore, I think it is worthwhile for you to consider the opinions that have been expressed so far and to revise your doctrines, in case we come to a common denominator in this matter, and that the sums of compensation actually reach where they need to be, in fact, do not reach where they do not belong. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2020-02-24-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, So that I don't walk like the one before me, and that we don't have the general debate again. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] I would like to say that I miss a lot of things in the summary proposal. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and that is why I would like to state my position (Gergely Arató intervenes.) that, as such, the proposal still does not respond to how you plan to resolve the overcrowding of prisons by 30 September. There is indeed a debate about the fact that the 2016 amendment, which you have only adopted, was accepted by the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, has not been accepted by anyone else in this House, the reason why the state has to pay large amounts of compensation now. If you think this question can be solved in six months, maybe you think it's okay, we haven't been told how we want to solve it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes, they're hiding it!]] So how come they haven't solved it in four years, anyway? So what is the solution that couldn't be brought forward in four years, but in six months, they're gonna bring you in here, in front of the House, and they're gonna get you accepted by Parliament, and that's a solution to the overcrowding of prisons? On the whole, I expect this answer from the representatives of the government who are still present. Forgive me, if we do not have an answer, then we cannot do anything about it, then we can only think of this as a political communication bluff, because it is not apparent what the solution is that you would like to bring to this House. This situation has been going on for ten years, they've been governing for ten years, they've promised comprehensive prison-building programs, I could say Ozd in my county, where prison was promised, these procurements have been stopped, so the situation hasn't actually been resolved after ten years of government. This is what the 16th proposal has ruined; today we are pointing at everyone, but they do not tell us what the brilliant idea that will come up next six months will solve this issue, so the overcrowding of prisons. My request is naive, but I ask Secretary Völner to tell me what solution he will choose. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-02-24-222	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-223	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am impressed to hear how good and brilliant my fellow Members consider the solution they chose in 2016 to be a good and brilliant one. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Necessary!]] And what a surprise to them is that if they open up a legal opportunity that, although with a lower amount of compensation, simply makes these types of compensation available to the Hungarian court, then there will be those who will take advantage of it and even hire a lawyer. Amazing! It would have required a degree of foresight that no one in your government would really suggest. But don't be so proud of yourselves, and now, when, if I understand correctly, you're thinking about..., although we still don't see this, I said this in the general debate, and I expected that the amendments might handle this, and here in the debate on the Commission report, there will be a way to talk about what other legal solutions they actually have, then we can see that they do not have another legal solution, or at least they have not yet been tabled, that there may be, then I don't know what this bill is necessary. In any case, the fact is that, of course, it is now possible to say that this Hungarian law will be abolished, and then exactly the same thing will happen as before 2016: then the Hungarian State will be condemned again in Strasbourg, and, of course, the solution that Mr Vejkey says is to step out of the scope of the Human Rights Court and the Convention on Human Rights, and, in essence, also from the EU, but I do not think that the majority of Hungarians are in favour of it. Perhaps you should hold a national consultation on this, if you are already curious about the opinion of the people, how do people want Strasbourg and the European Union to protect their rights, or trust you and trust that you will defend people's rights, because this is not very successful on the basis of the judgments in Strasbourg. [[18.10]] So, back to the essence of the matter: of course, you can play with it now, you can put in another tricky solution, in case it works, or you can actually try to get out of Strasbourg's scope. Now, I'm telling you, none of this is gonna be long-term, and we're gonna be sitting here in three or four years, and you're gonna be hopefully in opposition, and we're gonna talk about how we're gonna deal with the situation that this bad decision has caused. While there is a simple solution to the problem: not the UN, not the Council of Europe, not the European Union, not György Soros, not the lizards, not the Martians and not the Masonic conspiracy required the conditions to be in Hungarian prisons. A Ministry of Justice decree regulates how to set up prisons, how much space should be provided. You can sue if you, i.e. the Hungarian State, do not comply with the rules that the Hungarian State has made. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, the solution to the problem is to comply with their own rules. If we do not discuss a criminal policy now, the point of which is that as many people as possible are in prison, then this criminal policy must also create a sufficient number of prisons. You've been unable to do this for the last four years, I'm sure. They made a decision about this, and they didn't. So they don't follow their own laws, they don't follow their own decisions, and then they come here to complain that there are problems and problems. And I must ask the same question that my fellow opposition Members have already asked here. It can be written in a law because the Hungarian Gazette can bear it, there have been a lot of other stupid things written in the last few years, that by September the utilisation should be reduced to 100 percent. First of all, this is average utilisation, which means that there will still be a prison if the national average is 100, where there will be well over 100 usages, since 110 percent still have a 140-150-percent facility. So you can write that down, but let's just ignore it. We know, we've talked about it, and you'll admit that this would require at least 1,500 new prison spaces. And we don't see the solution to that. Because obviously temporary placements cannot be created in substance. Jail is typically not an institution that can otherwise be set up in a professionally correct way in temporary accommodation. Excuse me, but these seven-pronged criminals aren't like families seeking asylum and children who can be locked behind a barbed wire at the border. There is a need for serious security, serious security facilities. Such temporary damage not only poses the danger that there will be runaways and prison riots, but also makes the staff in the anyway extremely overworked prison execution an extra extremely heavy burden, with 1200 absent from prison execution today, not a question that if new prison spaces are created here, this shortage will not decrease, but increase. So, to put it bluntly, there is only one fair solution: at least to comply with their own rules, but it is obviously not available in a normal way until September, so that this does not otherwise pose a greater threat to society and does not create intolerable conditions for those working in prison. And there is one more solution, and we raised that in the debate, and you don't tell me why that's not true, because if you can't build a prison, but you require that crowds be reduced, there's only one way to release criminals. Answer who, why, how they want to set you free as a result of the consequences of their own stupid policy. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-224	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure. You have 35 seconds, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Really, I have very short time. I just want to give you a quick answer. State Secretary Pál Völner said that 30-40 billion forints should have been paid, and that is why the Fidesz bill saved Hungarian citizens and taxpayers. In this regard, I would only note that in 2015, you announced the prison project, assigned the places, eight places, starting from Kemecse, Csenger, Ozd, Kunmadaras, Komló, and the rest, and the rest, you had the opportunity to do nothing, you didn't do anything, you did nothing, you paid 8.5 billion forints instead. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-226	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Deputy Minister, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2020-02-24-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If I respond to what was said in the debate, I can repeat once again that my fellow Member Gyure has already calculated the amount for which we were in an emergency situation, and if we are to think responsibly with taxpayers' money, then we have to make this regulation. The kind of adverse turnaround that most of the compensation paid did not reach the victims is forcing us to present this bill now. The other part is that, indeed, this is not a definitive regulation, but it stops payments, and in the new regulation, these money can get to the right place. I don't want to distance myself from the issue, but the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the execution of the sentence. The government referral also states that the Minister of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior, will have to resolve this issue within the government. And the other is that I would like to reiterate that the kind of hope that you are traveling in, that thousands of criminals will be released here, is not justified. So basically, forget about that. How the Ministry of Interior will set up these places, be patient, the deadline is September, and you will see it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-24-228	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, [[Noise.]] I'm gonna ask the people in the box to have a conversation, please don't say anything. Thank you. Dear Parliament, A consolidated debate on the European Citizens' Initiative for the Equality of Regions and Sustainability of Regional Culture will follow. Lóránt Keresztes László, LMP; János Bencsik, Jobbik; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Zsolt Németh Fidesz; Károly Panczél, Fidesz; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik; and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, Member's submission H/9282. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 25 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 10 minutes for a statement by the representative of the Government, 10 minutes for the speech of the appointed rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, 5 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, a total of 5 minutes for the speech of the independent representatives. Dear Parliament, The authors indicated that three speakers had presented the opening statement. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time frame of 25 minutes to present the opening speech and the possible closing phrase. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am quite certain that the tone of this debate will be quite different from that of the debate on the just-completed bill. What lies before us is a proposal for a parliamentary decision on the political stand for the European citizens' initiative to support national regions. We know that this European citizens' initiative was launched by the Székely National Council, and before I begin to present this content, I would like to welcome Balázs Izsák, President of the Székely National Council, to the Parliament building here. [[Balázs Isaac stands up in the box. Applause.]] And I would like to welcome Dr. Attila Dabis, the Foreign Minister of the Szekler National Council. [[Dr. Attila Dabis stands up in the box. Applause.]] Well, it is an extremely important initiative, and we also know that we had to sue the European Court for six years in order to finally give the European Commission the green light to launch this initiative, and we thank the Szekler National Council for its perseverance that they have gone through this six-year legal path. This is an initiative on a national issue that needs to be set aside, and I see that party political affiliation has been put aside. [[18.20]] In fact, I am very pleased to be a member of a national group representing five parliamentary groups as the proposer of the proposal for a decision. We have convened a seven-party consultation on this and I am pleased that, after all, five parliamentary groups, pro-government and opposition groups, pro-government and opposition representatives have expressed the importance of bringing this substance to Parliament as a joint proposal. We also know that this proposal for a resolution, this statement of support, has literally already been to the National Co-operation Committee, and that there is also a very broad consensus in the National Co-operation Committee. We considered it important that this matter be brought before the Parliament, so hopefully the entire Parliament can express its political support for this matter with a very, very broad consensus. What is very, very important is that in this way we would like to spread the word of this important initiative to as many people as possible. The essence of the proposal is that the European Union's cohesion policy should pay particular attention to regions that are distinguished by national, ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic characteristics from neighbouring regions. After all, it is possible to prevent these regions from falling behind by accessing adequate development resources, so equal opportunities are guaranteed by the European Union, so that these development resources can also reach these regions. So this is a very, very important instrument, an instrument that is one of the priority areas of European Union policy, development policy and cohesion policy. So the initiative itself aims to introduce a truly effective instrument, so that it can be included in the legislation of the European Union. It is important that the proposal for a resolution also states that the Parliament expresses its support, welcomes this initiative and asks everyone across the border to support this initiative by signing it. You should know that on the Nemzetiregík.eu interface, on an online interface, this support can be made up of a minute or two. By the way, it is very gratifying that if we follow this website, we can see that the number of signatures has increased very nicely over the last few weeks. About two weeks ago, when we initiated this five-party consultation, the number of signatures was around 50,000, now that I last looked at it, it's already besieging 140,000. So it seems to me that it is certainly very happy that this process is starting. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members, as one of the authors, to support this proposal for a resolution in the vote tomorrow, but I would also like to ask my fellow Members that everyone in their own territory, in their own constituency and in their own city, tries to draw their attention as widely as possible to citizens that this initiative can be supported in this way on an online platform very, very easily. I trust that if we all do this work and as many people join in using social media as possible, this action will be successful. I thank you very much, fellow Members, for the opportunity to speak on this matter, in the hope of the success of this support.
u2020-02-24-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-24-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First and foremost, I welcome Mr. Balázs Izsák, President of the Szekler National Council and the delegation that has been published. Welcome. I would like to congratulate you on the work you have explained in recent years in order to make this initiative a success. Actually, we're halfway there, and we're about to do our best, but in recent years, you've achieved that after a lot of obstacles, it's possible to collect signatures for a noble purpose. I think it is important to have the national unity that has evolved during the initiative. I would particularly like to thank László László Keresztes for the work he has done to this end. And indeed, an angel came down to the room now and before, during the negotiations, because there was harmony with all parliamentary parties, and such a moment is rare in the Hungarian Parliament. So it has certainly been achieved that they have been able to establish national coherence, cooperation and consistency between the parties. What is this initiative about? My fellow Member has already spoken about this, and the speakers will talk more. Perhaps even so much that this initiative serves to preserve the regional identity of the territories, so that Szeklerland remains a Szeklerland, a Hungarian region remains a Hungarian region, so it is also a way of preserving the national character. In the European Union, it is very important to have cases where citizens can express their will, that is what the citizens' initiative is about. It has already been said that a million signatures must be collected by 7 May. It is not enough that the appropriate number of signatures are collected in Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, but we need four more countries, so I encourage everyone to encourage the collection of the necessary number of signatures in the other four countries, even within the party family. I could be there myself in Magfalva when this initiative was launched, I could sign the initiative of the Szekler National Council, and I could be there in the Committee on National Inclusion when President Panczél proposed the adoption of a resolution, which is now the result of this plenary debate and the initiative that Lóránn Keresztes started to adopt a resolution with a similar content. We must not give up the right of Hungarian communities living in disconnected areas through citizens' initiatives, even if we know that this is a very difficult road, since putting these issues on the table of the European Union does not automatically mean that these things find understanding ears there, too, there is a lot of work to be done in these bodies. Our aim is to ensure that the European Union not only deals with the rights of migrants, but also with the rights of indigenous national communities, as 50-60 million of our fellow citizens in Europe belong to indigenous national communities, so it is important to talk about these matters as well. And if there is room for these debates in the Council of Europe, we hope that more and more people in the European Union will understand what it means to be a national community, an indigenous national community, and to be able to adopt certain binding legislation. Let us say two words about the fact that there has been a similar initiative, the national minority protection initiative, the Minority SafePack, for which one million signatures have been collected, so in this sense the collection of signatures has been successful, it is on the table of the European Union, waiting for a debate in Parliament. If you like, this will be a test of what can be achieved; it is a more general issue, not a specific issue about regions. So it will be very interesting to observe what can be achieved in order to include this minority idea in the general legislation of the European Union, so that this idea can be introduced in a lot of legislation. I urge everyone to try to channel as many cases as possible to the bodies of the European Union through their group, their party family, which deal with national communities and indigenous national communities. The fact that we now adopt a resolution does not mean the end of the matter, it means the continuation of the matter, not even the beginning, but it is absolutely necessary to have a renewed momentum, because we do not stand well, let us be honest. Three months to go, and we need 850 thousand signatures, but actually, more, because there's definitely more signatures to collect, I'm sure you'll find invalid signatures based on such excuses. So it is necessary for everyone to put themselves there and collect as many signatures as possible with their own tools. We've been doing this job on the Minority SafePack, and we've seen that it's not easy. It is not enough to have an electronic interface, the Nemzetiregiok.eu, which is very important, but it is also necessary to collect signatures on the street, to collect signatures in various forums, and it is also necessary to help the media. It is important to take advantage of this interface and promote the case on its own surfaces. I certainly support this initiative and ask everyone to support it tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-02-24-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, our next rapporteur, the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We all know very well that we are here, we are here in the debate on this proposal for a resolution, that this proposal has a long history, a history, if it could be put in this way, a nine-year-old, seven-year-old, and we could list the events that have obviously already been reported here by several people, and those facts have also appeared at our committee meeting this morning. I would like to welcome President Balázs Izsák for the first time, who has just left, but I would like to thank, along with his colleagues, all those who have put in a really hard fight and work, made sacrifices, fought to put this European citizens' initiative on the agenda at all, and to talk about this at all today. [[18.30]] What is the purpose of this proposal for a decision? In short, it might be said that the prosperity of indigenous national minority communities in their homeland, that, in their home, in their national region, in accordance with their own traditions, their lives are preserved, that they can live safely, and that they have a vision, a future, in that region, in their home, in their homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the adoption of this decision, the adoption of a common consensus, is a demonstration that we, together, support this initiative and that we feel it is extremely important, that the European Union finally puts this issue on its agenda, this matter, this initiative, at last, to ensure that the members of our indigenous national communities are neither individually nor communityly secondary citizens in the country where they are to live. We could also say that the European Union should finally establish a minority protection system, a minority protection mechanism, for the benefit of national minority communities. Dear House, At the same time, I think that this resolution is also about mobilising Hungarian citizens, Hungarian voters, Hungarian citizens, and our joint task is to try to reach out to our supporters and activate our supporters in order to make as many people as possible feel the importance of this initiative, to actively participate in supporting this initiative, and to ensure that as many people as possible sign this European Citizens' Initiative. I think that the preparation and adoption of this resolution and of this resolution can also be an example and an example of cooperation in Hungarian society in the Carpathian Basin. In recent years, we parliamentary parties may have been able to set few such examples, and I think that this current initiative, this joint support, the debate on this proposal for a resolution, and the hope that its adoption tomorrow can set an example in Hungarian society and give an example that we politicians are able to overcome certain issues in our party policy debates, we are able to take a kind of national minimum together, and we are trying to set an example and set an example for the members of Hungarian society. Last but not least, my fellow Members, the lag that this initiative is talking about and the proposal for a resolution also speaks about, I believe that it cannot be balanced simply by creating equal access to resources. Because if our only goal is to create equal opportunities, then we will continue to miss this, in fact, and we will cement this lag. I therefore believe that this decision has more objectives, more ambition: that we must achieve a kind of positive discrimination in the European Union, in the institutional system of the European Union, in order to achieve this goal. For the national regions, therefore, this decision should not only focus on equal opportunities, or should not just focus on achieving equal opportunities, but also on more, more will be needed to combat positive discrimination for these national regions. Dear House, Supporting the European citizens' initiative initiated by the Székely National Council to protect and strengthen European national regions, I believe that it is not only our well-conceived interest, it is not just the protection and future of our Hungarian national communities across borders, but also our moral duty. A moral national imperative to which Article XXI applies At the beginning of the 20th century and at the 100th anniversary of the outrageous Trianon peace dictatorship, in the year of national solidarity, we must comply not only with its own initiative, but also with its heart and soul, and with its whole national unity. I trust that we will be able to work together and succeed, to succeed in this not only symbolic issue. In all of this, the Christian Democratic People's Party, its parliamentary group and its membership are fully committed, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this citizens' initiative is successful. I trust that tomorrow we will be able to adopt this resolution with one voice. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, at the end of the debate, 8 minutes 27 seconds are available to say the closing word. Thank you for your speech. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State to speak on behalf of the government. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. You have a ten-minute window, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I welcome the representatives of the Szekler National Council here and thank you very much for your work. On the other hand, I would like to say that I welcome the unity that goes beyond party policy logic. If you will allow me just one comment in this context: I would very much like to see this work on a number of national political issues in the same way. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We too!]] Thirdly, I would like to express to you that the Government of Hungary welcomes this initiative. The government supports any initiative that serves the cause of national cohesion and promotes Hungarian-Hungarian coexistence. We see that the national political institutional system and the national policy measures that have been born during the last nine and a half years under the Orbán government are good for the Hungarian-Hungarian co-existence and help Hungarians throughout the world, whether they live within the mother country or beyond the mother country. Fourthly, we are talking about an unfalse civil initiative, which we are very happy about. Of course, within our framework, all such civil society initiatives are well-placed and EU bodies are encouraged to pay attention to these civil society initiatives. For when it comes to the vomit of European citizens' initiatives, it can be said that the European Union and the European Commission have something to improve. The European Citizens' Initiatives, under the Treaties, should serve the principles that we all consider important on the European continent, such as the will of the people or, in other words, popular sovereignty or subsidiarity. Therefore, European citizens' initiatives, such as the institutions and legal institutions set out in the Treaty, must serve the purpose of these principles. Although this is actually done in principle, at a practical level, we do see that, on the one hand, the success of European citizens' initiatives is not supported, to say the least, by the European institutional system, and, on the other hand, if there is a successful initiative, in many cases it is equally adventurous for the initiators to fight through the legal maze, as in the case of this proposal or this citizens' initiative, and the European Commission, in particular its previous leadership, has shown little openness to the transposition of the initiative into European legislation. We hope that this will change in the near future. A European citizens' initiative is already at the European Commission's table, as has been said, the Minority SafePack initiative, and we hope that, through as many of these European citizens' initiatives as possible, European citizens, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, Hungarians and non-Hungarians who are fighting for the equality of regions and the sustainability of regional cultures, will be able to make their voices heard even in Brussels. Thank you very much for the floor. [[18.40]]
u2020-02-24-236	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. A total of ten minutes is available for these. The Committee's position is presented by two rapporteurs: Mr Tamás Herczeg and Mr Zoltán Balczó. I give the floor first to Congressman Tamás Herczeg. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-237	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I welcome the present members of the Szekler National Council and congratulate them on their work so far, and I wish them strength and perseverance for further work. Indeed, as the speakers before me have said, the work of the next period will not be easier and will not be less than before. Dr. Barna Zsigmond, although he did not conclude with it, concluded with the idea that perhaps an angel had come to the room, because we stand united in the proposal, which is exemplary in such a matter of national policy. I would say that not only this room, but also the Chamber of the Legislative Committee, will be presented in an unusual, very special way, with the results of the work of the Committee. In general, it is customary to state the majority position, and if this is necessary, if there is a need, there is a demand from the opposition, then the minority position is also described. However, it is not a minority position that will be presented in the next round, nor a majority, as we have decided this afternoon with 36 votes in favour, for the sake of the Protocol, I say that on 24 February, this proposal for a resolution, which is the European Citizens' Initiative on Cohesion Policy for the Equality of Regions and for the Sustainability of Regional Culture, H/9282. It forms part of a proposal for a decision. So, as I said, 36 unanimous votes were adopted by the Committee on the summary amendment and the summary report. Dear Parliament, In 2011, as I believe this has already been said, the Szekler National Council took a decision to launch a European citizens' initiative, in fact, to give priority to the national regions of the European Union's cohesion policy, which are distinguished by national, ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic characteristics from those surrounding them. This 2011 initiative, after years of hard work, has now come to the point that it has been possible to start collecting signatures, and it is a really difficult task for all of us, because the required amount of signatures has to be collected from seven EU countries. These regions, including geographical districts with no administrative competence, such as the Hungarian minorities living throughout the Carpathian Basin, Felvidék, Partium, Transylvania and other areas, should be prevented from falling behind as proposed by the resolution, the conditions for social and territorial cohesion should be maintained in such a way that their specific characteristics do not change. That is to say, there would not be any borders artificially drawn by a nation state that are currently breaking through areas inhabited by minorities. They need access, equal opportunities, access to the Structural Funds and all other EU funds, programmes and funds. Guarantees should be provided for maintaining their specific characteristics and appropriate economic development. Although we know that this is only a sufficient condition, as my fellow Member, Mr Szászfalvi, has said. This is the way of survival, and we can actually say that it is based on survival. In the year of national cohesion, the proposal for a decision has a symbolic significance. The success of this initiative is in the interests of all of us, so we ourselves, and I think, who are here in Parliament, are working to gather the necessary amount of signatures and more. So I don't have to say that I urge everyone to sign, because this is an important aspect of everyone, its purpose, its interest, its value base. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-24-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, another rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-239	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Legislative Committee for the fact that they have an unusual way of indicating that this matter is being passed on to the parties by the fact that the opposition representative is also among the speakers in the TAB decision. There are only 11 weeks left from the one-year term to collect one million signatures from at least seven countries in appropriate proportions for the European Citizens' Initiative of the Szekler National Council. The initiative, as has been said, is called cohesion policy for the equality of regions and for the sustainability of regional cultures. The presenters suggested that the Commission pay particular attention to the situation of regions that differ nationally, ethnically, culturally, religiously and linguistically from the regions surrounding them. If the necessary signature is collected, the European Commission has a duty to ensure that its contents are complied with, if necessary, by amending legislation, if necessary, or by amending the Financial Regulation. I don't think we know exactly how much of the necessary signatures have come together, because in Transylvania, signatures are collected not electronically, but mostly on pages, physically. President Kelemen Hunor said that 200,000 to 300 thousand signatures would be collected in a month. What I can tell you is that at the moment 140 162 signatures have been signed electronically, in which the encouraging thing is that I looked at the number before my press conference on Saturday morning, and I looked at it now, 17 thousand more, and 460 have signed since the beginning of this debate. So if we do our part and deliver the news, this will continue. But success requires a very serious mobilisation. By the way, many very positive people have said that this is a five-party referral, and especially in a situation where the debate between parties is sometimes not free from hatred. But let us add that there is no complete cooperation, dialogue, and the Democratic Coalition is not among the initiators, which I regret because the Democratic Coalition proves that its position has not changed compared to the citizens' referendum on 5 December 2004; it is completely insensitive to the fate issues of Hungarians beyond the borders. By the way, I would suggest to the fellow Members that, of course, they should also advertise in their constituency, but it is best to publish on the social media platform the link that can be signed in a moment. Otherwise, as has been said, this was a very long, hard fight on the part of the originator: after a six-year legal procedure, the European Commission's negative decision was annulled, in particular thanks to Balázs Izsák. Let us add that I have also experienced as an MEP: the European Commission is afraid of initiatives to support indigenous minorities as a devil of incense smoke. That's how we got to this level. Let me mention a very important statement by László Tőkés, who said that the Romanian nationalists would laugh at Hungarians if after so many years of litigation against the European Commission and Romania, because Romania, Slovakia and Greece intervened on the Commission's side on the Hungarian government's side of the initiative, so we also won a lawsuit against Romania, and then we could not collect one million signatures. [[18.50]] The task is therefore clear: we cannot abandon the Szekler National Council and the people of Szeklerland, we must do everything we can to ensure that the collection of signatures is successful, especially in view of the fact that this year is the 100th anniversary of the outrageous Trianon decision. Prove to us that we are aware of the Szabó Dezső's warning:. All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have 10 to 10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total timeframe of five minutes. Mr Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, came forward for a speech. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-241	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would also like to emphasise that there are nine years behind us, and the Szekler National Council is to be praised for continuing this fight. At the same time, it is important to note that this was an outrageous run, which in the last nine years the European Union has had to go through, thanks to its wrinklings: the rejection of 13, the Court's Court of First Instance. And the second-degree judgment of 19 was a victory, honourable fellow Members, which, I think, will go into the history of Hungarian national policy and will be one of the very outstanding achievements achieved by the Szekler National Council in recent years, such as the Szekler flag, as the day of Szekler freedom, as the 200 thousand signatures collected by the Szekler National Council in addition to the autonomy of Szekler; I think this will also be an outstanding result of the SZNT. Secondly, I would like to emphasise these elements here, and I would just like to emphasise that the two citizens' initiatives are compatible with each other, so that the two citizens' initiatives are not in conflict with each other, as one leads thinking towards cultural autonomy, cultural minority rights, and the other leads to economic, regional and territorial autonomy. Thirdly, I would like to point out that the key concept of the initiative is the national region. The concept of "national region" in this court order and in this procedure was born in the wording of the Commission, for the first time in the legal system of the European Union the concept of "national region" was born. The national region represents a larger area with ethnocultural features and linguistic features, such as the Szeklerland, such as the Csallóköz, such as the Mura region or such the Bodrogköz to name a smaller national region. So we are not just talking about the Seclerland, we are talking about the European Union's national regions. The problem is that for a hundred years we have seen that, as a result of Central and Eastern European puke history, Trianon and its consequences, these regions have been underdeveloped by the successor states, and this underdevelopment has not decreased over the past 15 years as a result of accession to the European Union, and there are even clear statements that these differences have increased. It is very simple to say that where Hungarians live, there are no roads of sufficient quality, and where there are no roads of sufficient quality, Hungarians usually live there if we are to refer specifically to a very serious problem of Hungarians across the border. And here I have to agree with László Szászfalvi: it is not enough to create equal opportunities for these regions, although it would be very important to achieve equal opportunities. Here are two important aspects. One: it should be possible for these national regions to be identified. How will these national regions become legal entities? This debate, or the use of the European Court of Justice and the European Commission, has the potential to create national regions. Secondly, direct channels must be provided for the European Union within its cohesion policy so that these regions can apply for funds. And let's not beat around the bush, it doesn't look good; here, if we are to be harsh, a miracle must happen in the coming period, and perhaps we are here at a very important moment in the miracle. I hope that this Parliament's agreement, this political consensus that seems to be formed around the issue, can lead us to succeed in collecting the signatures that are still missing in the next two months. Finally, I would like to stress that we need to be very creative in order to achieve this goal. I would like to thank the LMP for its active involvement and initiative in the preparation of this decision. It is of key importance that the RMDSZ has now clearly undertaken to collect signatures and have signed 200-250 thousand signatures. I am pleased to note that the National Chamber of Agriculture has also undertaken to collect signatures in the same order of magnitude, in the order of one hundred thousand. I am pleased that the Rákóczi Association, which is one of the most important NGOs committed to national policy, has also taken a decision to support the collection of signatures, but there is also a great need to support personalities such as Miklós Varga, or Father Csaba Böjte's support in recent days is also a very welcome development. I would like to ask my fellow Members to seize this opportunity in the coming weeks and try to support this initiative widely. Thank you very much for your attention on behalf of the Fidesz.
u2020-02-24-242	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-24-243	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I am very, very pleased, it is a strange experience to be involved in this debate, and I think we can all say that, too, are pro-government and opposition representatives. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond said that an angel had come into the room; I can confirm that, not only to this room, but to the Chamber of the Legislative Committee, the meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion. But I am also pleased to see that more and more municipalities are taking this issue on the agenda, and there have already been a series of municipal decisions, so the municipal authorities and cities are also in favour of this initiative. I think it can be said that in the year of national cohesion this is an extremely important result in itself, that national cohesion can appear in this way, not only at the parliamentary level, but also at the level of local governments, where appropriate. If we are in such a special situation that we are all in agreement here in this Chamber with regard to an important national case, I would also like to express this by responding to the statements and opinions of the pro-government representatives before me. MEP Barna Pál Zsigmond said, and Mr Balczó also responded how difficult it is in the European Union's policy to understand at all how important it is to stand up for the rights of indigenous national minorities and to fight for them. I myself have been a member of the Committee of the Regions for three years, and I myself have experienced that simply the European political elite, the European mainstream policy, does not understand this issue, and the European political elite does not know that the European Union has a huge fall behind on this issue, it has a huge task to understand this issue and to act in order to ensure that the protection of the very important European values, the interests of national minorities, can be included in the legislation in this way and can finally work with effective tools for this. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I also very much agree with Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. The European Citizens' Initiative system, where possible, is indeed being tangled by the European Commission. This is, in itself, a relatively weak initiative, and I think that it is also something that everyone who wants to make the European Union more democratic must face. [[19.00]] If we fail to give European citizens the means to really feel that they can really get involved in European legislation, then the future of the European Union will hardly be very, very bright. I therefore consider this to be an extremely important tool for everyone to play their part in such matters, and beyond, in accordance with their own potential, so that the European Union can truly function more democratically and in the hands of the citizens of the European Union as a means that they can play a meaningful role. I do not wish to multiply the word, but thank you very much for the support of the fellow Members who have spoken so far. I am very pleased to be part of such a debate, and I would also like to reiterate here that we are asking for everyone's support on the National Regies.eu page. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-244	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. I'm looking for Congressman Szászfalvi with my eyes, and he's next, but we'll be on our way. The next speaker was Mr Barna. Here at least... it's Hohn Krisztina's turn. [[László Szászfalvi enters the Chamber.]] I got it! Congressman Szászfalvi? You're backing out? [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Then we'll move on. It is up to Mrs Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP.
u2020-02-24-245	Thank you very much for the floor. I, too, would like to express my joy at finally being able to participate in a debate on a bill where there is no debate, but rather an expression of opinion. Fortunately, in addition to this initiative, many of us have taken sides, which I think is very important and a national issue that should be supported by all parties. That is why I say that as a member of the LMP faction, but as Vice President of the New Beginning Party, we will also ask the sympathizers of our party to sign this signature collection and, of course, support it and ask everyone to sign it. Also ask your acquaintances in EU countries to do so, and hopefully the amount of signatures you need will be gathered. But as a woman, allow me a detour that may seem a little sentimental. It was one of the most uplifting events of my life when I took part in the Szekler Freedom Day in Marosvásárhely, together with my fellow group László Keresztes, and there the word that thousands of us there said together was that it was autonomy and autonomy! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-246	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr Károly Panczél, Member Fidesz.
u2020-02-24-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to say the closing word in eight minutes 25, if that's all right.
u2020-02-24-248	Close? Understood. Yes, because everything is possible, only the order must be maintained. I will carefully ask Congressman Attila Tilki that he wishes to speak now, because he is next. Here.
u2020-02-24-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Sándor Héményi has a very beautiful poem, the poem To Death, and he writes in the poem "Until Death": "A hundred hairs are absorbed into me," / And I crawl towards a hundred paths.... - It is our job to help our Székely friends to recognize autonomy and the regional region. There are more members of the Council of Europe, three of us from Fidesz, and there we can see precisely that the European Union does not want to deal with indigenous national minorities, and does not really take it seriously. And unfortunately, we are saddened to see that by the minority, he means most migrants coming to that country, and that is why what Zsolt Németh said is very important, that unfortunately, the state of the roads is also typical in Szeklerland. And let me just give you one example, in which we also had a partnership. The question of the cemetery in Uzvölgy could have been a completely different question if a normal road led from St. Martin to the Uzvölgy, while, unlike the other side of the Carpathians, Dormánfalva, you could approach the Lúzvölgy cemetery. And we have seen that, at the Council of Europe meeting, the response to the ministerial question or the response from ministers is about solving the problem between the two countries in the Uzvölgy, and in no way a matter that could be dealt with at European level. Says the Council of Europe, which would be responsible for human rights. It would be responsible for respect for human rights, and we have seen precisely in the incident there that the fundamental human rights, the right of mercy, have not been respected by the Romanians, and in this ministerial response, which the Council of Europe has given to the ministerial question, there is virtually a kind of cover-up here too. I fully agree with what my fellow Member, Mr Barna, said, the Internet interface alone, the decisions taken by the municipalities alone, are not enough. We need to work here, and everyone, personally, even on a paper basis, needs to be helped by Members. I am an MP in a constituency bordering with Partium, and I can really see that one perceives unequal development in areas where mostly Hungarians live when passing through a given Romanian territory. I came home from Szeklerland with the mayors of the constituency, with 39 on Saturday morning, where the issue of signing came up, and it was mentioned that local government leaders in the given settlements and villages agreed with the initiative to support this. There are many small settlements, villages, small towns that have a sister settlement in Szekely, and these settlements also have a dog's obligation to have as many signatures as possible in a given settlement. The Minority SafePack wasn't a picnic at the Minority SafePack to get a million signatures, a lot of people had to do a lot of work. I am pleased that a multi-party agreement is being outlined, and I agree with Mr Balczó that DK is consistent because it does not participate. The Dialogue for Hungary started with dialogue for Hungary, then the phrase for Hungary was omitted, the Dialogue remained. So we could say that this could fit, but we saw that they were thinking in internationalist dimensions, so it is not surprising to me that the Dialogue does not consider this an important topic. So in areas such as parts of the country where we perceive problems arising from border management, we will do everything we can to ensure that the collection of signatures is successful. And with this mayor's team we also visited Gyimesbük, right, András Deáky, tourist entrepreneur, who was a retired educator, who was also in the prison of the Ceaușescu system... There may be a memorial to Ödön Sebő's condemned battalion in Gyimesbükk. I'd like to read two lines of the book of Ödön Wound in closing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You realize what you've lost when everything's missing and nothing's in place anymore. We must make sure that we do not miss this and that it stays in place. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-24-250	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that I have not interrupted Mr President's energetic speech at the time of the deadline, because he has handed over ten minutes of KDNP to Fidesz. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, MSZP.
u2020-02-24-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I welcome the present members of the Szekler National Council, on behalf of my faction. Here at the late hour, new points can not be put on the table in the debate, especially since there is no real debate in the classic sense of the word about the specific proposal. [[19.10]] As has been said, the Legislative Committee unanimously supported the proposal, and although there was some comment on the Dialogue from the speaker before me, I do not think that voting behaviour, if any, is affected by the fact that someone, as a national, is undertaking a community in this sense with a substance. I trust that there will be as broad a consensus as possible in this House tomorrow, and I think that we have a proposal that is worthy of everyone's support, of course. So in this sense, I welcome the party political consensus around the specific proposal, which is yet to be outlined, and also the European Citizens' Initiative in this way. I would like to draw attention more and more to the fact that there are 11 weeks left in my speech, so that we do not just declare our agreement here, but that, after tomorrow's vote, everyone here in the mother country should do their job in their own way to ensure that this initiative is successful. There are obviously other conditions for a sufficient number of signatures coming from other Member States and coming from a sufficient number of Member States, but I think that there is particularly much we can do here in order for this noble initiative to succeed. So for my part, I can say, and on behalf of my faction, that the MSZP supports this initiative, it also shows that Zsolt Molnár is one of his authors. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-02-24-252	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. The next speaker is Mr Péter Ungár, Member LMP.
u2020-02-24-253	Thank you very much for the floor. I do not know that I can make a substantial contribution to this national unity here, but I would also like to highlight three things. One is that, although it is very important that this is happening, and it is very important that this case does not fail, and we have all said this now, in connection with Mr László Keresztes Group leader, it must be said that this type of EU weaponry we are using is not the strongest one. So this is discussed on a petition committee in the European Parliament, where the factions usually delegate people who are not the strongest members of internal power games, and it is very difficult to exert pressure from here. At the same time, it is our responsibility that, if we think that the fundamental rights of the European Union are valid for everyone and we see them as valid for everyone without double standards, we see them as valid even when the EU Member States limit them to Hungarian national minorities, which Romania has actually done unbroken since its accession to the European Union, but in Slovakia it is the same. Paradoxically, in many ways, there is a better situation in a country which is not a member of the European Union in relation to the Hungarian minority. This double standard is a disgrace to the European Union, according to the LMP, and that is why the LMP included in the core values of the European Green Party four years ago the fact that minority language use is a fundamental right of the European Union. This is the adopted position of the European Greens on the LMP proposal. To my knowledge, the European People's Party has no such position on the proposal of Fidesz. At the same time, for the sake of the Protocol, it is important to say that we were able to do this partly because European greens are sitting with European regionalists in the European Parliament. But the situation, which is also a second important aspect, is that many countries, which have significant Hungarian minority inhabitants, use it, are also typical of Romania and Slovakia, that the European Union's development resources and other development resources are taken away from the Hungarian populated areas. This is often a very big problem for the parties representing the local minority. Perhaps with such European pressure, it can be achieved that resources cannot be withdrawn from any territory on an ethnic basis. This could also address the transport problem mentioned by my fellow Member, but also other such problems. I think it's very important that everyone, where you know, is going to make a public statement about this case, sign it as many as possible, use the connections with celebrities and media that are found in the ranks of Fidesz, and I will undoubtedly do so, and we hope that this will help this case somewhat. I would say so much as a lakonic criticism to those who are not, let us say, or in the ranks of the authors, but the Dialogue has now supported even the inclusion on the agenda, so it is important to say for the sake of the protocol, or to support the emergency part of this proposal for a resolution. So what I could tell my opposition colleagues in the Democratic Coalition is that it is possible to learn from the Hungarian Socialist Party how to correct an old, wrong decision, an old, wrong decision, because Attila Mesterházy went and apologized in Transylvania, it was a forward-looking thing. I think that the Democratic Coalition should do the same, because, unfortunately, December 5th, 2004 continues to cause serious problems with the Hungarian interest organisation, and it is such national units that we can correct them and restore them. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-254	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. The next speaker is Mr Csaba Gyure.
u2020-02-24-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Guests, First of all, I would like to thank the Szekler National Council and their activists and their leaders for the six years of fighting for bringing this issue here and bringing it to the table of the European Union, which is a very, very important topic, and I think that they deserved much more publicity in the past. So it's really a big, big thank you to the Szekler National Council. We see that in the European Union we Hungarians are not given anything for free, we have to fight everything there, and even though they talk about human rights, beautifully formulated principles, somehow this is not valid for us and for Hungarians somehow it is never valid for us when we want to live with it. Somehow we have been second-class citizens so many times, and we have not received those rights, we, the stormy Hungarians, for the last hundred years, can say, from Europe constantly. So we have to live in this fight, and thank God, the Szekler National Council, has now fought this fight stone hard, with six years of struggle, that it is possible to vote on it, to give an opinion on it, and we hope that we can bring this matter to success. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary was practically the first to take part in this matter. Last year, in May 2019, we held a national press conference in which we asked for it, and we called people in Hungary to help this initiative, and as many people as possible sign it, and we considered it very important that this spread as widely as possible. To be honest, as a very small criticism, we would have liked it if the governing parties and the government had stepped into this a little sooner and had been involved in this with greater intensity in recent months, from last May, I think we wouldn't have been here by now. But it is possible to do a lot of things by mobilizing now, and indeed, many people have mentioned it today, and I ask everyone, too, to mobilise, to mobilise, to have the number of votes to support this matter. And perhaps an idea, as we manage to get hundreds of thousands out on the street in a peace procession, then perhaps we could do an Internet Szekler procession, which, during the Szekler procession, these people, who otherwise go out on the street, would only press one button, and then the vote would grow by hundreds of thousands. Perhaps a proposal worth considering. I would also consider it important that there should be as many questions as possible where there is consensus here in Parliament. This is a very good feeling when we Hungarians see that we all want one. It's very rare. This is very rare, and that is why it would be very important to lay down the national minimum, what all Hungarian parliamentary parties would accept, that we will all stand up for them, and we would stand up for them constantly. If we had such a national minimum that we could put on the table and everyone would accept, then these questions would be much simpler, it would be easier to get involved in these problems. And perhaps there is also a symbolic message here, as we are here, because it is a 100-year anniversary now, a 100-year anniversary of the outrageous Trianon peace dictatorship that has hit the Hungarian nation to such an extent, the 100th anniversary of that, and perhaps a very, very small opportunity for liberation in this struggle that is now ahead of us. [[19.20]] After all, when we talk about this, we also want an economic freedom for the national minority, which is not even a minority, because there is an indigenous nation there in Transylvania, Szeklerland and elsewhere in a single, small number. We want greater freedom for them to have the right to economic self-determination, because we see how they have lived, the governments are taking advantage of the opportunities they have had, because they have been able to bring back the areas that they did not want to support with economic means. If they didn't want Szeklerland to evolve, then Szeklerland didn't get such economic support from the government, but received it in completely different areas. And what does that entail? Since everyone wants to live in better conditions, it has the potential to migrate from the undeveloped area, to emigration, to leave the labour force first, and then to move away from there, and finally to assimilate a certain community by economic means. And indeed, economic self-determination is very important, and the effective implementation of this movement would result in an increase in this possibility. After all, it is very important that linguistic, national, ethnic, and religious minorities have the right to call on certain subsidies directly, and it is not up to the government to keep them in check, but to have the opportunity to self-determination and independence. We need to open this door wide, talk about autonomy and talk about everything else. And if we fight for it, we'll reach it sooner or later. I read on the Székely National Council website about the differences between the economic development of Hungarian territories and non-Hungarian majority areas. Since 2007, since Romania has been a member of the European Union, while in Szeklerland we can talk about a 1.5 percent economic development, we can talk about 15-20 percent economic growth in neighbouring areas, in the Barcasság region of Sibiu. So the pace of economic growth in these areas is ten times higher, which is obviously a triggered process, and this needs to be helped. We need to help, and we need to find the opportunities where we can promote the survival of Hungarians as an indigenous Hungarian nation. That's the most important thing. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-02-24-256	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Two better-looking congressmen have as much time as they have on the screen. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian next, Jobbik.
u2020-02-24-257	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, this House is experiencing a moment of grace, and I wish for such moments of grace to be a little more. Indeed, we need a national minimum on national policy issues, particularly, but also when we decide on child protection issues, such as child protection. Articles 1 and 2 would reduce VAT when deciding to support the flask baby scheme. Therefore, on certain issues of national strategy, it is necessary to go beyond party policy. So I wish to continue this direction. As has been mentioned several times, it is a seven-country initiative, so it is quite certain that it must actively move both the prominents and representatives of Csonka-Hungary here and the leaders of the divided parts. It is certain that the already mentioned economic zone in the Carpathian Basin would be the long-term, which could provide security to all Hungarian communities in its full extent. In particular, I think that, at least where we have an influence, Hungarian-owned larger companies, where appropriate Mol, OTP, are required to employ Hungarian people and Hungarian citizens as far as possible. We demand that you be able to speak to Hungarian clients in Hungarian. These may also be expectations that can be presented in an EU-compliant way, but I wish the government a little more courage to do so, because it has not fought hard in this area, and I would like to support it in all its proposals. I also see that in the long term, the future of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin is determined by the success we can achieve in the cradle area. So, with regard to the Carpathian Basin as a whole, we should be able to talk about success where Hungarian children can be born. So that's what you have to do with all the tools to help, to propagate. And I see that the last thirty years have been a series of failures, whether from a demographic point of view or in some of these national policy issues. We do need to hold hands and make national minimums and consensual decisions in this most important area. After all, it is quite clear that if we continue only this direction today, that if possible all parties can agree on national minimum issues, then we can talk about building the Hungarian future. The question arises, of course, that we can give up the Hungarian future. I think no, no, never. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-02-24-258	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány!
u2020-02-24-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a historic moment, and for a year and a half, this is the second proposal for a resolution in which pro-government and opposition parties can cooperate. This is important, since national policy is a matter of parties. My fellow Member Krisztina Hohn's comment encouraged me to ask for a few seconds to talk about the fact that, when I was out in Gheorgheni for the first time, I also felt that we were leaving the border more than 800 kilometers away, and we heard them speak Hungarian, that the Hungarian nation consciousness was so strong in Szeklerland, which cannot be described in words. I welcome this proposal and, of course, I encourage everyone to sign this European Citizens' Initiative, together with us to make this initiative a success. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-260	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then the consolidated debate will be closed and I will give the floor to Mr Károly Panczél, who will be able to respond to what has been said in the remaining timeframe, if I see correctly, in eight minutes and 27 seconds.
u2020-02-24-261	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your patience. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, after years of legal struggle in 2019, the decision at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg was finally taken to comply with this initiative. It is important to point out, moreover, that Hungary has indeed joined this case in favour of the initiators. On 7 May 2020 a deadline was set for this collection of signatures. I would like to tell you that any such conversation, as our fellow Member Zoltán Balczó said, will also bring forward the issue of the collection of signatures. And perhaps in this case it would be worth talking here until noon tomorrow, for we have heard how many hundred signatures have increased in the last few minutes. Now, this is one of those cases where if we could get 100,000 signatures by tomorrow morning, it would be worth it. In this spirit, the National Assembly Committee took this matter on the agenda at its meeting on 12 November, and then the Committee made a unanimous decision in favour of the matter in support of it. By the way, that's pretty much the text that's in front of this House. And at that committee meeting, Mr Kereszt was also present, who, although unable to vote there, provided support for the LMP on the matter. I would like to thank you for all that has been said here, for this joint stand. The title itself is long, and at Minority SafePack, we were like, "How do we simplify this and make people understand it?" I would suggest that we simply use the term "the case of the "national regions" because it is possible to summarize what this proposal is about, this proposal for a decision and the presentation of the Szekler National Council. I, too, thank all the speakers, the parliamentary parties who supported all this, that this matter became a national minimum, as did the Minority SafePack at the time. Or let us recall the multi-party stand and the proposal for a decision on the Ukrainian language law in this House. Thank God we already have positive examples of the national minimum and national minimum issues behind us. Mr Balczó recalled that the Democratic Coalition has not yet joined this proposal for a resolution. I could cover the vote tomorrow, by the way. It is an interesting curve, as part of the Hungarian left goes from the proletarian internationalism of László Kovács to the anti-Hungarianism, including 5 December 2004. [[19.30]] And I can only cheer for Péter Ungár, because you are in many cities, in many districts, in joint electoral cooperation, and I would be interested to hear the conversation when you persuade Ferenc Gyurcsány to apologize. [[Defiance.]] I'm rooting for you. [[Péter Ungár: Thank you very much. Defiance.]] National region and cohesion policy, this is part of the matter itself and of the proposal for a decision. I would like to say on cohesion policy that it has also been said here that, in several EU countries and unfortunately in most neighbouring states, not only do they not spend sufficient resources from their own central budgets on areas inhabited by indigenous nationalities, but also from EU funds, and this petition, this case would serve to ensure that EU development resources can be used directly in these national regions. We were talking about Transylvania in particular this evening too, but it is obvious that this would be an opportunity to make a positive assessment, if the EU were really able to decide whether there should be national regions in Europe, we should not only be talking about Transylvania, but also about the region of Kalotaszeg, where there is a Hungarian majority, about the Csallóköz, where our politicians in the High Tatras can show that half as much support per capita as there is for the region of the High Tatras, but we could also talk about the Dravag of Croatia, the Mura region of Slovenia, because because because of the unfavourable economic geographical conditions, it is also the capital and the coast, which is developed, and the poorest parts of the country that are inhabited by the Hungarians, which need extra development money. The other issue is the issue of regional culture, where, I think, the national cultures of Europe are not only carriers of nation states, but also the culture of national indigenous minorities in national regions should become a part of Europe's national culture to be saved, language, culture, traditions, identity, and the built heritage, including cemeteries, even in the Uzvölgy. Dear Parliament, I think that, by the way, the time has come for the European Union to change its behaviour, especially towards its indigenous national communities, and not to say that this is a Member State's competence, but for the European Union to deal with its own 50 million citizens and their rights, be it an economic or cultural area. And I think that this proposal will be good for all of Europe's indigenous national minorities. The proposal for a decision is a message. If we accept it here tomorrow with a very large majority, then this is a message to the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin that the majority of Hungarian society is in favour of this matter with the leadership of the Hungarian Parliament. Indeed, what Csaba Gyüre talked about was autonomy, indeed, if they could be created, if national regions were to be created, it would be a territorial self-determination. We can call it territorial self-determination, autonomy, territorial self-government, anything, the national region itself could be autonomy, so we have to support it in any way. I can also ask everyone in your party, calling on your constituency, civil society organisations, social organisations, ecclesiastical communities, to do everything possible to succeed in collecting signatures. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-02-24-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP:. The situation of rural cities. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-02-24-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Allow me, for one more word, to thank all my fellow Members for participating in this evening's debate. I believe that this was exemplary, that this consensus was exemplary, and that so many of my fellow Members considered it important to express national unity of thought on this issue. In my speech after the agenda, I would like to talk about an issue that is the most recent and important challenge for the nation today, the issue of emigration, and that we should also develop a kind of national consensus in this matter and develop a framework for cooperation, a policy that gives us the opportunity to face this huge problem first and then effectively represent a policy that will bring results. We have talked many times in Parliament about the fact that over the past ten years forced emigration has become enormous, which is essentially linked to economic policy challenges and problems, simply because many people have been walking in the past few days without having been able to earn a living, or have not been given a job in line with their profession, and have therefore been forced to thrive in other countries. This migration has reached such a level that one in six Hungarian children are born abroad today. Unfortunately, there is no such broad agreement on this issue as what we have just talked about, and it is often said to our pro-government colleagues that we cannot talk about emigration and forced emigration here, because there is nothing else going on here but how the common European labour market works. We also often hear in response that there are countries in the EU, from which there is greater emigration, and that statistics are sometimes presented to the Parliament that show that the trend has already changed and that more people are coming home. Well, unfortunately, we cannot agree with these, and we think that the first and most important step would be to say together that this is a terrible challenge for the nation, and we must face it. If we look at the fact that we know that there are regions that are falling, peripheral rural areas, where this problem is particularly serious, it shows the weight of the problem that this challenge has also reached the relatively better-favoured rural cities. I do not want to talk in the air, I would like to say some figures, and I would like to quote the statistics between 2010 and 2019. During this period, 5 000 people left Zalaegerszeg, Kaposvár's population decreased by 7 thousand, Miskolc lost 14 thousand, Debrecen's population was reduced by 7 thousand, Szeged's loss by 10 thousand, Kecskemét's population by 3 thousand, and what my heart is particularly serious to say: Pécs, my home has the largest population loss in rural cities, and between 2010 and 19 the population of this city has fallen by 15 thousand. I think that to face these issues, to say that this is not well, is a national issue; it is a national matter of fate to stop this process, but it requires instruments to do so. How strange the Hungarian situation is, I would also like to support it with some statistics. Unfortunately, in the European Union, we are among the first in terms of the fact that young people and the most educated young people are most likely to leave the country. We can also say, and this is also a shocking statistic, that 8 percent of Hungarian graduates already live abroad, and, by the way, the emigration of well-trained professionals is a sign of extremely serious structural problems, and some sectors are already facing collapse, simply because they do not have the right professionals, and unfortunately, reinforcements are also very difficult. So, in order to stop this process, it is necessary that cities, rural cities, are given the right resources to create a city policy of a kind, a local development policy of such a kind, so that this migration can be reduced, and then later we can give or give these settlements the opportunity to return to citizens emigrated from coercion. Several months have passed since the municipal elections, and then the Prime Minister and several members of the government said that they also consider the cities where the trend was reversed in October, and opposition leadership was in power and that opposition-led general assembly was given the task of running the cities. I would also like to remind my fellow Members and members of the government of this promise, of this statement. This is also a common matter, it is also a matter of fate, so that we can take the important steps, the political steps, so that this forced and economic departure can stop, so that the break-off of the Hungarian countryside can be stopped. And in order for this real rural development policy to be a real driving force for rural cities, it is necessary for this to happen from the Parliament and the Hungarian government. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] receive the necessary central resources. Thank you very much. [[19.40]]
u2020-02-24-264	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Queen of the West."
u2020-02-24-265	Thank you for the floor. I would like to address a problem that I have heard most recently from a affected family in Sárvár, but I have heard of several places, including Debrecen, from the county of Nógrád, the county of Bács-Kiskun this year. What happened was that at the end of last year, the children's home care fee rose to HUF 100,000, and then it will rise to the minimum wage level, which is very right and good. At the same time, in order to decide who is entitled and who is not to receive this home care fee, the EMMI attached a point system in a regulation. This point system was suddenly released without any coordination. By the way, a number of professional organisations, I and other opposition representatives said that this system of points was flawed, causing difficulties for these affected families. At the time, the EMMI said there was a political hysteria. And then this point system has been modified twice since, indicating that it was really wrong. The first thing I think it is important to say here in Parliament, because it was not possible to explain this for a long time, that I think the existence of the point system itself is unjustified. So I can't understand to this day why the EMMI didn't say that there was a diagnosis circle, and if the diagnosis paper can be presented, then the children's home care fee is due. These do not require a two-year and three-year review, because these are birth-life situations that do not change in two or three years' time. So we don't have to take these affected families through such a bureaucratic maze over and over again. You have to give completely incomprehensible papers, and if, say, someone's in the country, in a small settlement, you have to travel 80 kilometers to get the child psychiatrist there to write it out, so I didn't understand it in the first place. And to this day, the EMMI has not been able to say how much the point system itself is needed. There are cases where individual treatment is required, but currently and this is not provided by the EMMI to show exactly what proportion it is so that the government actually spends more on looking at who is entitled and who is not, and spending more on this administrative burden than if everyone who is entitled to do so by a certain diagnosis would receive this 100 thousand HUF and then the minimum wage. In the specific family, autism has a spectrum disorder in a child, where in connection with this point system they were in a review procedure or torture, which has not ended until today. At first, they were completely excluded from the care fee, and now they finally received the increased care fee, but the fact is that since the EMMI decree had already been drawn up that even the family had no accurate information on the appeal procedure, the question arises as to what the State Secretary had done, which would basically have had the task of informing the families concerned in this legislative change. With regard to the child care fee, although I repeat, it is a good thing that this rises to the minimum wage level, it is important to know that in many cases this is not a sufficiently flexible system. They do not allow a child not to be raised, but a child's guardian, to receive this. This is completely incomprehensible, because the basic Hungarian rule is that all social benefits in the case of guardianship are the same as in the case of parental status. This one's been missed because of some kind of codification problem. The other, it is also incomprehensible why it cannot be recorded differently within a family, from another family member. So if the government has rightly allowed the grandparents to take on the child instead of the parent and thus increase labour market flexibility, it is incomprehensible that the child care fee did not do so, since the grandparents could take on this support and then the parents could return to the labour market. Overall, it is the case that progress has been made in relation to children's home care fees, but this still puts an enormous administrative burden on the families concerned. Moreover, this is not sufficiently flexible in the case of very, very minimal social assistance affecting the budget, and the EMMI has not yet been able to provide a meaningful explanation for this. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-24-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, representative of DK, read the long title of his speech after the agenda: " 200 years ago, the castle of Károly in Fót began to be rebuilt in its present form, on the occasion of the jubilee, the town of children is being evicted. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-267	Dear House, Mr. President. The Károlyans are the 15th. Districts, that is, the cancer palaces, the Újpestians, the IV. For district people and Fótians, it's like, for Soroksar, the Grassalkoviches or Obuda, the Zichys. Although this Károlyi castle is in the city of Fot administratively, it is a very important part of the common history of Rákospalota and Újpest Fot, and what I would like to say is at least two reasons. One of its reasons is the role Károlyi played in the development of the region at the time of the reform, and what we owe to István Károlyi and the other Count, Sándor Károlyi. The first thing I would like to mention is that they were farming on about 6,000 acres, and in fact, these settlements really lived from it, and they evolved from it, and the ability to keep living with the Count from various lordly servants and farming, producing primaries and vegetables, and bringing the crops into the markets of Pest and Buda by night by horse carriage. Then, as a result of the development, which was due to Károlyi, in 1844 he himself gave a free trail to the construction of the first Pest-Vác railway line, and in 1846 this railway was also handed over. So when we are on either side of the district, either on the Újpest side or on the Crab Palota side, or on Fóton, these are very connected settlements, whether one is Pest county or the other is Budapest, we cannot talk about a local history without the Károlyians. That castle came into his possession 200 years ago, and in 1820 with a small mansion, which was then in that area, bought this estate, and then began to build it for several years. Miklós Ybl was then the designer of this beautiful castle as a young man, in which we can also see Munkácsy paintings and Károly Lotz paintings, things that we can see here in Parliament. In such a beautiful castle, great historical events took place. During the Revolution and War of Independence in 1848, Károlyi himself exhibited and participated in a regiment of cavalry. The politicians of the Reform Day organized here in this castle, and especially in the preparation of the reconciliation Ferenc Deák, Széchenyi and many well-known Hungarian politicians appeared in this castle today, because once it was a railway, it was easy to travel. So for our region, this is also very important from a historical point of view. This is why it is embarrassing for us that, here in this House, it has been decided that this castle has been handed over to a foundation or association known as the International Children's Service, a foundation or association, known as the Hungarian Association, by Parliament, and a deadline is accepted, as it is a children's town. After nationalization, there were children's homes here, and at the moment there are about 120 young people, some 140 young people, and teachers and educators. They must move out this year, the year that the construction of this castle began 200 years ago. It's a sad fact that we don't know what the future fate of the castle will be. An association to support such an empire, we don't think it can. [[19.50]] And the other thing that's extremely important here is who's really concerned about it. Many say that the national organization of the hunting company, the main hunters may have a central meeting place, will be a guest house. People talk about a lot of things, but there's no official information about it. I am saddened to note that such an important place in Hungarian history, where the walls also talk about history, revolutionaryism, is being held in uncertainty today. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-02-24-268	Thank you very much, Congressman Hajdu. The next speaker was Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, entitled "Plasmabiznis". You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-269	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Anyone who remembers his biological studies, I don't say anything new by saying that the countless components of the blood are floating in a pale yellow liquid in the plasma of the blood. This material is extremely valuable. Pharmaceutical companies buy it, make more important medicines out of it, and because the demand for medicines is increasing, therefore the demand for plasma is also increasing, and consequently blood plasma is an extremely expensive, very up-to-date thing, and world market prices are rising. In the last few weeks, the news has been going on, and the press has been full of the fact that there is a lot going on in Hungary, too, please. What's this about? After people drop off the blood, the National Blood Service sells a significant part of this, so a significant part of the plasma. This is all right, this has been the case in previous decades, and we do not have to process everything in Hungary. In the past, it was sold in the framework of a very unfavorable construction for the Hungarian State, too cheap in Hungarian, and the Hungarian state sold these plasma products significantly below the world market price. Kehi's 2015 report also stated this. It says that the Hungarian budget was damaged by some HUF 2 billion. The Director-General of the Service was replaced in 2016. The new Director General has announced a tender, but the tender has been declared unsuccessful several times, until one of the candidates, which is a multinational foreign company, concluded a consortium with a small Hungarian company, and this consortium, what God gives, finally won this tender, and that, no, the owners of this Hungarian kft. were, by the way, university associates of the Director General and his deputy twenty years earlier. They won the tender, concluded the contract, but the price increased slightly, still falling below the world market price. When Minister Kásler took office, the cleansings also reached the OVSZ and appointed a new Director General, first with a mandate, and then he was appointed by Dr. Dr. Matusovits Andrea. In the summer of 2019 this certain plasma contract with this consortium expired, no new tender was issued, but the new Director General extended the contract for another three years. They've raised the price again. Now the price on the world market is around 110 euros a kilo of European plasma. Today, Hungary sells to this consortium for 78 euros, so we lose 32 euros per kilo, I'm just saying. When this contract is over, this will be a difference of around EUR 55-60 to our detriment, I repeat. At this point it becomes interesting that the name of the current Director General is not unknown at all, not by accident, he is the wife of Zsolt Bayer, the owner of Fidesz' 5th member book. We could say why it's interesting, why it matters. Because there is very little information about this transaction, however, Zsolt Bayer writes about it in articles and blogs, so we can learn more about this otherwise important transaction than from official documents. The point is that since last summer, the former state has been restored by Mrs. Director-General Bayer. Without another race, he sells blood plasma well below the market price, and so he does the same thing as his husband had previously condemned. However, the story is not over, I would say this even in a minute, because the Kft., the one that won the 2017 tender and had to do with the contract at the time in the consortium, changed hands and is now owned by a subsidiary of a Japanese blood plasma company, which was acquired after the contract signing. If this was the case on the basis of data, then its main value was this contract, which means today's owners did not actually buy the company, but this particular state exclusive contract and provide them with plasma for three years below the world market price. So it's a big fucking deal for someone. Dear House, What really happened in addition to these data would be found if both the original agreement of 2017 and its extension were made available by the OVSZ in 2019; however, it does not do so on several occasions, Andrea Bayerné Dr. Matusovits did not do so, so the Democratic Coalition will sue for public interest data claims and then discover what happened here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "We Protect Paramedic Companions."
u2020-02-24-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing to discuss health issues, we now move to another segment of health workers, the National Rescue Service. Over the past few years, what I've been able to do in health care, I've done half my time in the National Rescue Service and the other half in the hospital. Once upon a time, there were atrocities that were worth the rescue workers, but unfortunately, at that time, they were not revealed. Older workers told these stories to new recruits. It didn't really turn out to be a police matter. Over the last few weeks, months, people's mood has become more and more horrified that people who spend their days, their daily lives, and their working hours saving human lives are being insulted in a lot of places and a lot of times. It is very simple that if you enter the Internet search engine with the expression that you have attacked rescue workers, then going back to 2010, there are a lot of, in fact, lots of endless articles on the Internet. I would like to list a few for you: a man attacked paramedics in Bonyhadon, a patient was attacked by paramedics who were to be taken to the hospital, a patient who was to be taken to the hospital, a paramedics attacked by Balta, and a pocket knife was used to attack the paramedics, and then Chenye is coming today, when the paramedics were only doing their job under physical threat. In writing, we contacted the Director General of the National Rescue Service, Dr. Gábor Csató, that the National Rescue Service was at all leading statistical data that, whether during the announcement or the arrival, the paramedics would be subjected to verbal or physical insults. Unfortunately, the Director General has informed me that such statistics or such data collection are not being carried out by the National Rescue Service. It's surprising to me, because in the last 22 years that I've been working there, in a simple fender accident, the paramedic, the paramedic, and the driver had an obligation to fill out a service card as to how that one centimeter abrasions and injuries occurred on the ambulance. At a time of physical violence and verbal assault on health care workers, and especially rescue workers, who provide the very first care on the ground, it is unacceptable that, at the moment of notification, when there is such a case, it should not be recorded and the principle of parallel alarms should be started, which means that there should be an arm's power assigned to that location. You can say that, and in an article, the director-general said that TETRA radio is capable of sending an alarm to all rescue units and police, but there are situations where the use of it can cause even greater anger in those there and in their families, and the Good Lord does not give it to them, which may even lead to death or even injury to rescue workers. That's why we thought in the faction that we would like to initiate a legislative amendment, a Btk tighten-up that would double the insult to health workers. and here, in particular, in relation to the arrival of rescue workers. [[20.00]] I have said many times that it is important to protect life, and I would like to say a very simple and relevant sentence, one of the slogans of national rescue workers: vocation for life. We want to fight, and we want this bill to be adopted by this House so that the slogan they have every day, when they get into their cars, faces and live like this, that people who are fighting for our lives and work for it every day can do so physically safely, so that they can spend their retirement years with their children and grandchildren, and that they do not have to suffer every day the physical and verbal revenge that would be an opinion of a segmented minority or even of a group that would affect their work. That is why we are asking for this House's support for the legislative amendment that will come before us. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-272	Thank you, Congressman Rig. László Lukács, MP Jobbikos also applied for a post-the-meet speech:, Why are we teaching seventh graders pálinka cooking when alcoholism is a disease in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-24-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the last few days have been dominated by the news that, as part of the National Basic School Plan, 7-8 class students are to be taught about pálinka cooking and its phenomena or related phenomena in chemistry. I would like to say that my speech is not an anti-pálinka and pálinka speech, but rather an awareness-raising speech. We respect the custom in Hungary that many people like to cook brandy, otherwise to consume it, and it is part of Hungarian culture, the Hungarian tradition. So it is not against the schnapps and against the entry of the principle itself in the textbook that this speech is about disappointing those who would like to hear it, but about what else could be taught in the National Basics, in addition to or in addition to cooking the schnapps. It is quite obvious that it is important to mention here that alcoholism is unfortunately a leading problem in Hungary. We talk very little about this problem. Many people always take this as a problem to be kept at home or kept in a company, but young people need to be told about it, because a survey shows that it is the young age group who is unfortunately the most susceptible to alcohol abuse, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to try it at a time when they have not yet developed any culture of consumption. Therefore, the most dangerous of them is excessive alcohol consumption. It could be part of the National Basic Training Plan to raise awareness and, unfortunately, the saddest figures are that in Hungary there are estimated 379 thousand alcoholics. They are those who are valued by the number of people suffering from cirrhosis of the liver, which, unfortunately, is one of the last and often irreversible cases of chronic alcoholism, and from which there is a great deal of death. In addition to the estimated number, there are 15,000 alcoholics in Hungary, and the number of young people has become alarmingly high in recent years, especially the number of young boys in this area. Alcoholism and alcohol deaths can be measured at 30,000 people a year, of which 6-7 thousand are the ones who die of cirrhosis of the liver, one of the most serious consequences of alcoholism. Unfortunately, many times in the Hungarian media, Hungarian public life, it is proud to see how much and how much alcohol has been consumed, even though we all know that one of the most harmful effects on our organization is perhaps one of the most harmful. I am not saying that it would be an ideal condition for people to stop drinking alcohol itself, but they should be aware that in no way is it a matter of pride that a person consumes alcohol in excess in Hungary, especially as the Hungarian public often claims that it is part of our gastronomy. Ladies and gentlemen, In France, where at least as much gastronomy is involved in the use of alcohol in cooking and defining national identity, the proportion of alcohol addicts is 2.9 percent. In Hungary, this is 9.4 percent. No one has the right to say that this is a part of our gastronomy and our lives. Ladies and gentlemen, What is happening is that Hungary, just like many post-Soviet states, is poisoning itself with alcoholism and alcohol. A very simple ratio can also be said as a deterrent number, and we are barely behind the Baltic and post-Soviet states, with 14 litres of pure alcohol per person per year being consumed by Hungarians. Nor can it be said that it is not only the National Basics, but not only the school that is responsible for children's attitudes towards alcohol and society. It is very important that the social environment, the family environment, can also act to alert young people and even to the fact that alcohol must not be consumed in excess. But the state has a role to play. Alcohol strategy has been delayed for a long time, the formulation and launch of the alcohol strategy, which we have been waiting for for for five years now. Ladies and gentlemen, If we are talking about the fact that in the National Basic Science Plan, the chemical phenomenon itself, the distillation, and how it is possible to produce schnapps, there is a place in the curriculum and we can argue about this, then there should be a place in the Hungarian public life for anti-alcohol strategy, and there should be a place in the curriculum for children and young people to draw attention to statistics on diseases and death related to alcoholism, because this is the only way we can achieve results. As I said at the beginning, this is not an anti-pálinka speech, it is an awareness-raising speech. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a lot to do in the fight against alcoholism. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-274	Thank you, Congressman. Dániel Z. Kárpát, MP Jobbikos applied for a post-meeting speech:, For how long? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-02-24-275	Mr President, Dear House, It has been mentioned in today's parliamentary debates that, when looking at Member States across the European Union, inflation figures are high in Hungary. So the pace of the deterioration of money, the amazing price increases, especially those affecting essential consumer goods, is very high in Hungary, and this phenomenon is coupled with an extremely low wage level, which, although fortunately, has started to shift in recent years, at least that is what the statistics show, has moved from a very low base, and the end point of the shift, where we are now, is also one of the lowest values in the European Union. We could talk about how statistics are distorted when the cafetheria is abolished by this government, and employers include this cafeteria in the basic wage, the basic wage seems to increase, but in reality nothing changes, the employee receives the same amount of forints. But that's not what we want to talk about. Most of all, I want nothing to compensate for the amazing increase in basic articles in the Hungarian economic system. The 6 percent increase in food prices within a year, including pigmeat, is 23 per cent, but other factors include the 10,5 per cent increase in rent and the almost 8 per cent increase in fuel prices, cannot be compensated for by any social transfer or other impact. If we look at the fact that the inflation rate in January was 4.7 percent compared to the period one year earlier, and we compare this with the increase in pensions of 2.8 percent, we see that the most basic promise of the Orbán government to maintain at least the purchasing value of pensions could not succeed in any way. And there is also a demographic factor that unfortunately makes our pension system unsustainable. It may not happen in two or three years, but it will happen in 20 or 30 years. [[20.10]] I myself am ashamed of the behaviour of Parliament, because we rarely talk about long-term national strategy issues here. Typically, the governments of all time may think a little beyond their four-year term of office, but this country needs statesmen with 20-30-year perspectives, and we see that no one in the Hungarian Parliament is essentially thinking about how pensions can be produced in Hungary in 20 or 30 years. However, there would be a prerequisite for all of this, namely the real burden-sharing, which does not unduly favour multinational networks, which achieve that a fair rise in the level of Hungarian wages entails higher contributions, and that these higher contributions should be included in the system and appear, let us say, in the form of higher pensions or pensions, but also in other forms. What we see is that if we do not have enough problems with these difficult factors, then we still have an amazing and continuous decline in the exchange rate of the forint, which the Hungarian population cannot avoid at all and in any way. What we see is that anyone who puts any imported product in the basket cannot be exempted from the additional costs of weak forints. That he is doing this at a mall in a clothing store, because he is forced to spend his salary there, or he is in need of import food, because there is simply no other way to get it in shopping malls, and many times even in the markets you run into foreign goods, and we can certainly see that we are talking about unavoidable factors and that Hungarian payments continue to dwindle. Thus, there is a basically low level of payment that is burdened by a brutally high inflation, a higher price increase than inflation for basic foods, consumer goods, a 27 percent world record VAT on child-rearing products, the elimination of cafeteria in the event that, say, the employer would have supported the worker's housing, the elimination of state aid for housing savings in the event that the worker himself had been saving money and an extremely weak forint price, which would have increased import products. When all these harmful effects are added together, it is very difficult to accuse family friends of the government that is bringing this underway. It is understandable, therefore, that we want to generate parliamentary debates in the future on each of the factors and, if possible, all-party agreements so that the social groups involved, the young Hungarians and the people serving the future in Hungary can stay in this country, because it is possible to say any nice slogans in Parliament, but we should talk about the real problems of real people, and it would be our duty to find solutions together. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-24-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Good evening, good night. Meeting day's closed.
