u2020-06-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, fellow Members. The 1st Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Your Honour, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you and all of you who are monitoring our work today. I remind you that the government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament has initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held today. The letter and its attachment were all available from our website. Dear Parliament, We remember the martyrs of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. It's 59/02. According to Parliamentary Resolution No.56, our commemoration will be held in the presence of the historic flags, among them the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence, and naturally in the presence of our national flag. I ask you to stand up and honor our national flag and historic flags. [[The president, the congressmen and the guests stand up. The fanfares speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit, and requests permission from the chairman in the middle of the Chamber to import historic flags and the 1956 national flag, who grants permission. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit, and then the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In October 1956, at the time of our glorious revolution and freedom fight, the streets of Budapest and its buildings were covered almost overnight by holes in flags, which made faith as a kind of people's judgment in favour of the independence of the nation and the restoration of democracy without signs. After November 4, however, the punchy flags reminded us not only of a few happy days of the revolution and the hope of freedom, but also of hundreds of thousands of people being permanently ripped out of our national bodies. The people who died in the revolution, the victims of the Kadár reprisals, the multitude of those who were forced into emigration and exile showed the world that the false system behind the mask of human-faced socialism was not what the Marxist intellectuals of the Western European cafes dreamed of. For decades, for those who stayed home, forced silence, silence, and lies were part of the story. The revolutionaries became counter-revolutionarys, and the most holy victims for their country became traitors. They could not avoid their fate, and they found themselves among the wheels of the terrorist machine, the disillusioned communists and socialists who, following Imre Nagy, committed themselves to the independence of the nation in the autumn of 1956. On 16 June 1958, following the hanging of József Szilágyi and the murder of Géza Losonczy in prison, the communists led by János Kádár consolidated their power with the execution of Miklós Gimes, Pál Maléter and Imre Nagy. At that time they hoped that Hungarians could be deterred forever by retaliations and murders. Later, they hoped that the soul of Hungarians could be bought with a Trabant or a SZOT resort referral. Finally, it took more than three decades to bring justice through the change of history and our own strength. On June 16th, 1989, Imre Nagy, the martyred Prime Minister and his associates were sent to the Heroes' Square. Sándor Rácz, speaking on behalf of the Hungarian youth, and Viktor Orbán speaking on behalf of the Hungarian youth, as well as the other speakers of the event and the members of the more than 200 000 crowd, did not know that their courage and determination would become one of the first symbolic steps in the fight to regain national independence and freedom. [[10.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Putting coffins in the ground ended an era. We buried a system. A symbolic rehabilitation of the martyrs and victims of the revolution also took place. And out of the sixth empty coffin, the disgraced and bloodless spirit of 1956, crying out for an independent, freer and fairer Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to Imre Nagy and his martyred associates, as on 16 June 1989, we must remember together all the known and unknown Hungarians, heroes and victims who sacrificed everything in 1956 for the better translation of the fate of our country. Never forget: if we keep the memory of heroes, their actions and ideas will live forever. Now, please stand up and join us in welcoming our national flag, the historic flags and the 56 symbols of the hole flag. [[The people in this room stand up. The commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at the sound of the fanfares.]] Thank you very much. Please take your seats. [[The people in the room are sitting down.]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We now have speeches before the agenda. Mr Tamás Mellar has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The prestigious English higher education institute published a fresh list of the best universities in the world. It consists of 1000 institutions from 93 countries, including eight Hungarian universities. True, none of them could get into the top 500, while four Austrian, three Czech, two Polish and one Estonian, Lithuanian and Ukrainian universities were added to the TOP 500 list. Meanwhile, Hungary is undergoing a febrile transformation in higher education. After Corvinus University, six more universities will be singled out. But this concept does not describe what is actually happening, because many people may think that a privatisation is taking place, that is to say, selling universities to investors for good money, which will generate revenue for the budget, and these investors will make sure that universities work effectively, because they have their own money in it. But this is not the case, because what happened was that the government founded six foundations, then handed over to these foundations the funds of the universities in question, and appointed leaders to the head of the foundations, namely foundation presidents who are trusted comrades, including the richest man in the country and one of the ministers. So what happened was actually not privatization, not privateization, but rather a faith trust. The government expects this transformation to improve the quality of farming, education and research in higher education institutions. József Bódis, Minister of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, has formulated the following requirements against the leaders of the foundations: I quote: "To understand the specific field, higher education and the new world to which higher education institutions are intended to be carried. Well, in four of the six appointed leaders, MTMT indicated a zero hit on the Hungarian Science Works Board, so there is no scientific publication for these people, in one case there is only one publication, and only the sixth leader had an acceptable number of scientific publications, but let us add that it will be from the chemistry sciences, while it will be the founding president of the veterinary university. So we have good reason to believe that these Board Presidents do not know much about the specific field, either higher education or scientific work. [[10.20]] So what are they really good at? All that remains is the third criterion, i.e. to understand the new world to which we intend to bring higher education institutions. They'll probably understand that. But what this new world will be, we have been forgotten to be informed, and the Secretary of State has not spoken of it, nor has anyone else. But I'm afraid I've had a lot of experience at this age that this new world will be something similar to what we experienced once in the 1960s and 1970s, when university party secretaries led education and scientific research to the beautiful new communist world. I remember that our party secretary called me in and said that he didn't care whether I was scientifically right or wrong, but in socialist Hungary, I can't say the things I said. Well, I think that these political commissaries, who are now entering universities, need to perform similar tasks, and so they can easily get rid of the university instructors who make criticisms, because now the status of civil servants does not protect academics, and consequently, those who say nasty things about the system of national cooperation will very soon be deprived of their position as university instructors. The fact that there will be no Hungarian university in the TOP 500 is likely. But who cares? More importantly, it is in this way that universities can be cleared of liberal agents, left-wing pests. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-16-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's determined aim is to ensure that Hungarian higher education is competitive and innovative, while Hungarian college and university students receive quality training, acquire useful knowledge and stand up to their place in both the labour market and the scientific sphere, either nationally or internationally. We have taken the necessary measures to achieve this on an ongoing basis. Nor is it a coincidence, honourable Member, that Hungarian higher education institutions are increasingly included in the international rankings mentioned by you. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw your attention to the fact that we do not really ask for lectures and advice from those whose close allies wanted to make Hungarian higher education pay, and if it were up to them, then all students in Hungarian higher education would be charged a tuition fee today. Only the referendum initiated by Fidesz-KDNP could prevent this. But let us not forget, honourable Member, that left-wing governments have made Hungarian higher education institutions vulnerable by PPP schemes. The Hungarian government has had the opportunity to replace 19 such constructions, and the national government had to spend HUF 39 billion. In addition, numerous other infrastructure improvements and financing improvements have served to improve the quality of Hungarian higher education. And indeed, there will be changes in the model of its maintainer, whose parliamentary debate has been held here in the Hungarian Parliament in the last month or months, since Hungarian higher education has reached the limit of its development that was available in this system, so it is justified and necessary to create new structures. The primary objective of the measures is to create knowledge centres and higher education institutions with a regional role, which can contribute partly to the improvement of the quality of life of their universities and partly to the development of scientific activities, research activities and innovation activities in the whole region. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that this is not a novel idea, as the idea of changing models has long appeared in Hungarian higher education strategies in order to enable these higher education institutions, which are involved in the model change, to respond more quickly, flexibly and effectively to the challenges facing them, in line with their own expectations and the expectations of the social, cultural, market and knowledge environment. This is supported by the ownership of the necessary property, which is facilitated by the fact that it is possible to manage these institutions more loosely and flexibly, and is also supported by the fact that the relationship of university teachers is changing. Honourable Congressman, Allow me not to go without saying what you were doing at the University of Pécs in the past, since you referred to it. He was just laying out his family laundry about a month ago, when he was invited to a college lecture, and after the university management decided that it would only be presented privately, you exposed this family laundry in the press. All he did was create an internal institutional conflict, the institution where you belong, where professor emeritus, you exposed your inner conflict and attacked the institution. The truth is, honourable Member, that you have just made a policy out of higher education, and you have made a policy out of an event at the University of Pécs. We ask you not to do this anymore, as you are an argument for changing the model for higher education from here on out. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has applied for a speech from the LMP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-16-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Local governments play an important role in the lives of local societies; it is important that locally elected people can represent the interests of the people who live there and that the local authorities will carry out the tasks assigned to them. This year's draft budget law contains many changes, including both positive and negative elements. But why am I telling you all this? In recent days, a lot of debates, speeches, questions and statements have been made between the walls of this House on whether the budget for next year is good or bad for the municipalities, it has been said that there is a big problem and that everything is all right. One might think that we are not living in the same country, and many may not be able to decide who is right. Well, I think it really depends on how you look at it. Many of my pro-government fellow Members, state ministers and ministers have expressed their displeasure with the statements and statements of the opposition, but fortunately we still have the opportunity to express our opinion. But allow me, as former mayor, to draw your attention to a few problems based on my practical experience, and perhaps with these, the criticisms we make will also be more acceptable. It cannot be emphasized enough that the salary increase of civil servants has been cancelled for years. The civil servant's salary fund has been for almost 10 years. We proposed 60,000 forints last year, but of course you didn't hear that. Why? The civil servant pay table is in a deplorable state, and should have been adapted to the minimum wage a long time ago, of course, not as you have done. Or is the goal of leaving the field as many as possible? I mean, you can't find any coworkers anymore. Local authorities carry out local social tasks, organise domestic assistance in an association form. Villages are increasingly involved in the role of village care services, which have been fortunately increased in recent years; for example, this is a positive one. For years, we have been saying that social workers, elderly caregivers are not being paid, and that they seem to be needed more and more, just as the number of people in nursing homes needs to be increased. Personal care, support services, home assistance, and home care make life easier for those in need, which is why we also say that they should be valued financially. In the future, a 24-hour on-call care system could be provided for all, which would be easier to get to those in need and make life easier for families. But I think it is essential that we also talk about public workers. [[10.30]] Public works programmes are, in principle, a means of catching up to those living in extreme poverty. The aim would be to prepare them to find their way back to the labour market. Promoting this is a very, very important task. It is essential that training programmes be launched to facilitate possible transfer from public employment to the competition sector. They certainly need help to do this, especially for those who are trapped in this form of employment. Think about how much they live: about 54 thousand forints a month is the minimum wage for public workers, which is slightly more than 50 percent of the normal minimum wage. What's that enough for? According to the LMP fraction, it would be an optimal system where municipalities could employ workers who are important to them for the maintenance of public areas or other tasks for a decent wage from the budgetary framework. They should therefore not only be given qualifications, market opportunities, but also the right level of pay. But why is it that we are constantly concerned about self-government? Due to the gradual narrowing of the local space, the low maintenance of the civil servant's wage, the gradual discharge of the status of civil servant, the withdrawal of the motor vehicle tax, the disintegration of municipal owned public service companies, the fragmented labelling of the normative, the less financingability of voluntary municipal tasks, the increasing solidarity tax, and, for example, the dialogue with local government associations is only partially realized, and it is also empty to mention just a few examples. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-16-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On the part of the Government, Secretary-General Károly Kontra responds to the speech by the honourable Member before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-7	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President...
u2020-06-16-8	Wait a minute, because the name of Secretary of State Károly Kontra has not yet been published, we will wait. I need a moving microphone. His name's out. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for your contribution, in which you expressed your views on the municipal budget and told us your experience as a former mayor. I think it is important to have a calm dialogue in this area, too, because the municipalities are performing a very important task. One of the important results of our last ten-year government was that in 2011, Parliament adopted the new law on the municipalities of Hungary, which entered into force on 1 January 2012 and, as of 1 January 2013, we put in place a new funding system, the task financing system. You yourself have seen that this has been a significant step forward compared to the previous one and has enabled a more stable, balanced municipal management and a more effective municipal task. I would like to return to the 2010-2014 cycle for one more thought: debt settlement: the government took over HUF 1300 billion of government debt. I find that I myself have been a municipal representative for 20 years, a deputy mayor for 8 years, so I have experience, I can tell you that this has given the municipal system a relief and a power that has given a new impetus to the provision of tasks and to achieve a higher level of public services for citizens living in a given settlement. As regards this year's draft budget law, honourable Member, I would like to say that the figures speak for themselves, the figures do not need to be justified and explained. The fact is that there is a HUF 118 billion more resources available to municipalities in the 2021 Budget Act than in 2020 is a 16 percent increase. I think that this is a number on which you can safely build, you can rely calmly, so this is a significant increase. I would like to point out one more thing: for some municipalities that need further help because of their own local financial positions, the government provides a HUF 200 billion credit line on the basis of the bill submitted. So there is also a protective umbrella for municipalities, for the municipal system, so that there is no problem; if there is a problem, it is possible to apply for it, and this HUF 200 billion credit line is available and can help municipalities. I would like to draw attention to two more factors, which also provide a serious development opportunity. On the one hand, the "Modern Cities" program, which means an investment program that is in Hungary's municipal history... I would also like to draw attention or remind you that on 30 September this year the municipal system will be 30 years old, on 30 September 1990 the first round of municipal elections was held, and the 30th anniversary of this election is coming soon, so it can be said that both the Modern Cities Programme and the Hungarian Village Programme will have a total value of HUF 400 billion for the two programmes 2021. Madam Member, I think that this is a number that gives rise to hope and promotes the development of settlements. Let me also go to the Hungarian village program separately. I am an individual Member of Parliament, there are 45 settlements in my constituency, a significant part of which more than 40 settlements are involved in this programme, and this is a very big opportunity from the shore of Lake Balaton, from the Balaton Uplands, from Örvényes to Ősi, these settlements also take advantage of these opportunities. As far as your proposals are concerned, we have raised the wages of social workers by 14 percent from 1 January 2020, we have also raised the home care fee, and we have also taken into account the proposals that have been made in this regard. I think that this increase will continue, and I think that this will recognise the work of those who care for and care for their relatives at home. As regards your comments on public employment, you said that these salaries should be increased, I would like to say that public employment is a success story that has allowed us to bring hundreds of thousands of people back into the world of work, and wages have been determined to be a source of livelihood and an incentive for these people to move from public employment to the market. We're counting on them in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-11	Our fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, spoke about our fellow countrymen who are forced to make a living from 54,000 forints a month. Let me now talk about the other end of the social scale: the lucky ones who, on a better day, have this amount at their disposal in an hour, earn the same amount in an hour for which others work for a month. Last week, the 100 richest Hungarians published a summary of their data, in which we could always find some very familiar names. Immediately on the third stage of the podium, Bronze medalist Lőrinc Mészáros, who, according to some people, is not only a neighbor and friend, but, to put it mildly, is also a trustee of the Prime Minister, and who was able to present 270 billion HUF worth of wealth this year. My fellow Members have the right to ask what leads to these great successes in the system of national cooperation, what it takes to achieve such a wonderful result. On the one hand, we know that we need to be smarter than the founder of Facebook, that's enough for one, but as far as I can tell, there's more. Because if we follow the news, for example, we see that while Lőrinc Mészáros' company sent 800 employees, while the government rewarded this extremely solidarity and job preservation act with HUF 18 billion, the hotel company of Lőrinc Mészáros received so many improvements. During the New Year's Eve holidays in the same hotel development construction, the same company managed to win a significant amount in a few days. My colleague, Ms Ágnes Vadai, asked the Attorney General to tell him that he shouldn't have seen how it happened, that he practically didn't open the tender, that certain well-defined companies had already applied for it. The Attorney General gave a brilliant answer: he said that he did not have the right to act in the case of decisions on State aid. [[10.40]] This is a reform of criminal law which also makes a significant contribution to the fact that Mr.Lőrinc Mészáros has also made a significant contribution over the past year. But let me give you one more example: we were talking here yesterday about Elizabeth Camps. For example, for the renovation of the Erzsébet camps, the consortium, one of which is the company of Lőrinc Mészáros and his family, received 22 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, From these sources, NER's aristocracy is enriched, not by performance, not by job creation, but by state subsidies that you have spent with both hands. Of course, we can find not only him but also Mr. Garanchi on this list. True, he is only at 15, 66 billion, but he is making good progress, for example, by the fact that Kőbányán, at the corner of Népliget, opposite the Fradi-trail, is built for a total of 70-80 billion, the gigantic sports hall with its columns already standing, but has no visual design yet. If someone loves the government and the government loves him, then they don't need a visual design, nobody knows what it is and how it's going to be built there. This seems to be the way to get rich in this system. And let's not forget the great unknown, the great Anonymous. Among the new entrants is a gentleman named B., who blocked his data because of such shy millionaire, but quite strong industry news, that this is equal to the same gentleman who owns the advertising company that owns all of you, so let's stop Brussels! Let's stop immigration! ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------;---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- He manages his campaign for economic development with big blueposters , and has only received 67 billion forints in the last year or twoyears , but now he has 10 billion forints during theemergency. Of course, we know that while there is no more benefits for the unemployed, while there is no state aid for those people who have lost their jobs or who have been forced to take unpaid leave, while small companies do not receive anything, while these gentlemen continue to get richer thanks to you. Yeah, they're gonna get hurt, too. This year, Lőrinc Mészáros is only the third, because he was preceded by György Gattyán, whose business is much more moral than all the above mentioned gentlemen. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-16-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unlike you, I am not at all used to buging these entrepreneurial lists, but in any case, we have three basic expectations regarding any Hungarian entrepreneur in Hungary: to comply with the laws, to pay taxes, and if they receive state orders, to do the work at a high level. Let me add that it is very strange to listen to you after these kinds of speeches, with your party president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, taking a hundred million-dollar dividend out of your company, [[Gergely Arató: Butcher 11 billion...]] we know very well what a dubious role he played in the privatisation processes after the regime change. As far as tourism subsidies are concerned, you have highlighted one of the many elements. For example, you forgot the tax reliefs in your speech, and what you forgot is that the program you are referring to has not just started in 2017. This is about the Kisfaludy program, and the program started with hundreds of small hotels and small pensiones receiving subsidies for renovations, otherwise more than 500 people numerically. So when you highlight a subsidy, you're not actually attacking the company concerned, you're attacking any company interested in tourism that has received aid in the past. And if I'm trying to figure out the direction of your speech, where it all leads, then we feel that you want to raise taxes again. They say they'd only raise for the big ones... [[Gergely Harvesto laughs.]] Even if they laughed, the corporate tax increase was on the left-wing agenda, it was there. And we know this trick, first we are told that only the big ones and then all Hungarian businesses are faced with greater burdens, and then the corporate tax increase comes first, and then the income tax increase, which was on the agenda of the left-wing parties, among its proposals during the previous elections, Professor Mellar nods sharply here. As far as economic action is concerned, the epidemic is because we are in an epidemic situation and we have to deal with its consequences in the first week that has already taken measures that have helped to keep jobs in substance, because this is the most important one. So you're forgetting the point of attacking economic measures. The point is that we need to think about support instruments that help keep jobs and create new ones. And with wage subsidies, investment grants, training programmes, suspension of loan repayments, we have already been able to help over 1.2 million Hungarian employees. You can still count on this helping hand, and this is not just an empty commitment, because if you look at the budget for next year, you will see that a fund of 3000 billion will be available for this purpose. And this crisis management, honourable Member, is quite different from the left-wing crisis management in 2008-2009, because you have quite simply looked at the budget figures and have been taken from almost everywhere. So what we are discussing here is how, in a crisis, Hungarian businesses will receive more money, but on the other hand, you were taken away at the time when you had the opportunity to act. This resulted in a massive economic downturn, a 7 percent decline, 12 percent unemployment, hundreds of thousands of people on the streets and a skyrocketing public debt that had to be brought back in recent years. And if someone looks at your current suggestions about what you want now, they'll find a very, very small difference compared to their solutions at the time, suggesting the same failed recipe for the country. Honourable Congressman, We do not expect them to represent exactly the same policy as the ruling parties, but what is proven, for example, in creating jobs, I ask that they do not attack it. And if I can ask for one more little thing, or perhaps not so small, then I ask you not to bring back your failing proposals that have pushed the country almost to the brink of the abyss or to the brink of the abyss. This is not good for you, nor good for the country. But it is better to debate these issues, the consequences of the epidemic here in this House than to make camuvides instead. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-16-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President István Hiller, entitled Imre Nagy's memory today, has applied for a speech from the MSZP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-15	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, On June 16, 1958, at 5 a.m., the Prime Minister of Hungary was executed 62 years ago. A few minutes ago, the Parliament commemorated this with honor, but please allow me to speak on behalf of our faction about memory, the history of memory, before the agenda. We are at a specific time, since a few hours ago, 62 years ago, he was executed, and because he was born in 1896, he lived 62 years. Dear fellow Members, What is the value of 62 years of life in Central Europe, and what is 62 years of memory? More than a century in Hungarian history, and with an overview of the life of a man, a Hungarian politician, we can learn much more about ourselves, our country, our past, our present than simply looking at a biography. Many things have been said, Mr Vice-President, on behalf of the Parliament, I think that he has indeed honoured the execution of the Prime Minister on behalf of all of us. [[10.50]] Imre Nagy was a communist, believed in something, believed in it with conviction. At the same time, he could no doubt see that the system of which he was actively involved was untenable and unspeakable. Therefore, and so became the leader, hero and symbol of the revolution, the war of freedom, 1956. Memory has been worth at least as much recitation for 62 years, honourable Members, because this is also our history. Not only this man's life, his martyr's death, but the 62 years that followed, of which a great part was the conscious and forced silence, the story of silence; the symbol of a system in a particular way. I think there are more of us here who were there on June 16, 1989, in different places. Some of you spoke and gave a brave speech, some of you were there, like me, as a university lecturer, suspending the exam to go back to the exam, and I guess some of you, knowing or not knowing each other. I thought, and we thought on June 16, 1989, that there was and there could be something common understanding. I haven't put it down yet. Respect for Imre Nagy is not a matter of political affiliation, honourable Members. Right-wing democrats and left-wing democrats both respect and respect him, and not only his death, but also his particular way of life. At the same time, I would like to say that I see and see that in recent years there has been a conscious ambition for Imre Nagy's role in the relativisation. I'm asking those who can influence you not to do that. There is no point in setting up a strong order between the boys in Pest, the young people who died a heroic death or were forced to flee, the armed forces of our countrymen for revolution, Hungarian freedom, and Imre Nagy, the 56 prime minister and his symbol. This is not the story of our country. It is the story of our country if we are able to understand that together they did not necessarily want a better, freer and happier country, but they wanted a better, happier country. Therefore, anyone who respects the boys of Pest can respect Imre Nagy with calmness and dignity. I'm asking you to do it together. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-16-16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-16-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Vice President, Indeed, 31 years ago, on June 16, 1989, Imre Nagy and his martyrs were buried again, and we symbolically buried the anonymous victims of the revolution with the sixth coffin. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán put it this way in his speech at the cemetery that we learned from the fate of the Nagy Imres that democracy and communism are incompatible. In fact, the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party took our future from us, young people today, in 1956. Therefore, in the sixth coffin, not only a young man murdered, but our next 20 years, or who knows how many years, lie there. How few people would have thought in their euphoria of changing the system that they would be right, how much suffering and hardship await the old freedom of Hungary. Plus, as it turned out, the day of Imre Nagy's funeral wasn't really free. The Heroes' Square was still the area of operation of the repressive system's secret service, with agents standing among the memorialists. So the system's repentance was not sincere, just as the same gesture was not sincere 33 years earlier. On October 6, 1956, on the day of the remarrying of László Rajk, the Free People announced that they would never again. Three weeks later, the dictatorship turned against its own country. Fortunately, in 1989, lying words no longer associated with violence. This is how Imre Nagy and his martyrs' reburiation, despite the insincerity of the communist power, really brought for many moral purification and opposition to the past. These occasions are carved into a man for a long time, and through such memories we are built up for the future, so that we do not listen to the siren voices of the then and present ideologists of the communist system, the deception, the lie that they are trying to lure into their camp the simple man pondering over the injustice of the world, but to believe our own eyes and conscience; where black and white, good and evil can always be well separated from each other. In this case, our conscience provides clear guidance. Imre Nagy's memory is a common cause for all of us. I say this despite the fact that if the former Prime Minister were among us, he would certainly agree with us, with the right-wings, on a few points. But that doesn't matter right now, like you said. The fact that at a critical moment Imre Nagy did the right thing, said no to communist ideology and foreign aggression, took the martyrdom for his right decisions and for the independence of his nation. Instead of ideology, he chose his own nation, instead of serving the empire, to serve the Hungarian people. There are few politicians of the left-wing dictatorship outgrown by the idea of extreme and unrealistic equality, who can say all this about themselves. But Imre Nagy's message is still valid today. We must not wait for the dictatorships of external power, we must not demand the intervention of the external power, because then we are nothing but parachutists parachuted to Hungary, and also the varieties that are typically puppets of great powers. Only members of the Hungarian nation can choose the leaders of the Hungarian nation and then keep or send them. If we consider Imre Nagy's martyrdom to be a serious road item today, then we cannot translate this travel item other than that in this country any external force, external pressure, power cannot be exercised with foreign support or against the physical and mental integrity of the Hungarian people in particular. In view of all of this, we can best hope that, in addition to paying tribute to the memory of the Hungarian Prime Minister who died of martyrdom, no politician today will forget, not on either side, but especially on the left, what Imre Nagy represented, and what gave her a place in the memory of the entire nation forever. Frankly, there is still work to be done in this area, not everyone understands the word of history, leaving respect, of course, to the few exceptions. But the point is, at a critical moment, choosing people over ideology, choosing national freedom over alien repressive power. That's the standard. Let the earth be easy for him. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, János Stummer from the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, When Turkey announced at the end of February that it would open its western borders to migration to Europe, everyone expected that, after years, this would be once again the most important and serious social issue of the coming months in Europe. When you watched the reports of the Greeks, you read the journalism reports, you must have felt as if you had gone back in time all the way to 2015. Tv crews pushing each other, trying to emigrate with stones, nervously crawling police walls, locals who struggle because of the run-down and the upheaval, and György Soros in every bush. Europe had already buckled the belts when the epidemic came, which changed everything here as well. Imagination, but that's the most thoughtful thing: the virus hibernated the problem of migration. The smuggling networks have been frozen overnight, and European politicians suddenly have less problems than they have to deal with non-existent emergencies. Instead of the Syrians, masks and the Afghans, the lack of ventilators became the most serious problem. During record time, they had to at least shake the health care that had been neglected in decades, and so have you. [[11.00]] When the first wave of the plague is over, everyone is watching what has changed. Has the intensity changed? Have the routes changed? Or have the smuggling methods changed? How quickly will this particular migration machine be rebooted? However, one thing is certain: an epidemic or not, this problem will remain on our hands because we must not have illusions. the existence or non-existence of migration does not depend on President Erdoğan taking advantage of this card for his current geopolitical games, or it does not depend on the existence or absence of this being that you need another question in the latest national consultation. Virus or no virus, Europe is ageing, and population explosions in the Middle East continue, climate change, and war conflicts continue to encourage those born there to migrate to the West. I can only hope that in recent years everyone has learned the lesson that there is no one-off solution to the challenges of illegal migration, only and only on a continuous basis. Migration routes are constantly changing, trafficking networks are constantly searching for a gap in the shield, and the groups heading to Western Europe are always moving towards the lowest resistance. I ask the government not to fall into pride's fault for the country's real security, to regard this matter neither as settled nor as resolved, because it is not. You guys have been telling me lately that you always have to deal with the worst scenario. Well, I'm asking you, why don't you do that in this case? Why do they allow humiliating net wages and terrible working conditions to disperse police personnel? Why are you looking at the burning shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces without any measures to produce meaningful results? Why don't you help local governments get state aid to maintain their field guards? Why are you making a political vanity issue out of the previous proposal to reinstate the independent border guard? And why are these questions important? Well, because we are now standing in a position to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people, not only with the worst, but even with a medium-bad scenario. If there will be no substantial change in these critical points, i.e. police personnel, the military, the field guards or the future border guards, then the Hungarian government will not be able to guarantee the security of the Hungarian people within the state boundaries. I did not bring the pictures of 2015 here for a reason at the beginning of my speech. You're still at the last minute, and I'm afraid that's how it's gonna be. We know what they're thinking. One of the rules of the practice of power in Orbán is that when there is a problem, it is not the most important rule. They did the same thing in March, which is why there was a blackout, which is why it was a scramble for a week or two when the coronal virus outbreak came and they couldn't figure out what to do with it, because the big boss didn't deal with it in time. Be kind and don't act that way for once, but deal with the problem when you know the problem is coming. Mr Secretary, I ask you not to tell us what is now, but to tell us what will happen, how more police officers, soldiers, field guards and border guards will protect Hungary. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-16-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value, and Hungary is a safe country. In Hungary, the Hungarian police, with the help of Hungarian soldiers, defended the country's security in 2015, and since then it has been protected from illegal migration, while improving the state of domestic security. You may recall, my honourable fellow Member, that you may have put forward in one of your comments before the agenda what we promised in 2010. We said we'd clean up the country, restore order. This has been done, and if we compare the figures, the figures for 2010 with today's figures, then we can say that we have not only been able to protect Hungary from illegal migration, from migratory pressure, but also the security of Hungarian people, but domestic security has also improved, as the number of crimes that have become known has decreased by 63 percent. Today Hungary is a safe country, and if you look at the pre-epidemic conditions, Hungarian tourism has soared, and has achieved results in 2019 because, on the one hand, Hungary has beautiful, attractive tourist attractions, we Hungarians are welcome, and it has also contributed to Hungary being a safe country, if a tourist comes here, it is not only a good time, but it is safe and can safely return home, honourable Member. So it can be said that the measures that we took in 2015 are threefold protection: the fence, legal protection and living protection have brought the result that we can say that Hungary is a safe country. But the danger has not passed, Mr President, the danger has not passed, as there are still 130,000 people on the Balkan route, most of them will put pressure on the Hungarian border, and if we look at the numbers, the daily report, the data showing migration movements, then we can say that the migratory pressure has revived and is strengthened. While migration pressure has virtually stopped during the first period of the coronal virus epidemic, today they are trying to enter the European Union fully again, and the Hungarian border is one of the targets of these illegal migrants. During the January-May period, 6900 illegal border crossings were registered on the Western Balkans route, which is a 50 percent increase compared to the same period of the previous year, so, I say, in the first period, the migratory pressure has virtually fallen and is now revived. We are an EU Member State and we are fulfilling our obligation to protect the Schengen external border. We say that the migration pressure can be prevented by strengthening border protection, by ensuring adequate living power, and I would like to say, Mr honourable Member, that the Hungarian borders are protected by Hungarian police, soldiers and border fighters, and that Hungarian border protection is of European quality, and I would also like to thank the Hungarian police, soldiers and border fighters for protecting the border. As for the recognition of police and law enforcement, allow me to tell you a few facts. On 1 July 2015, the new Service Act entered into force, which announced a new career programme for professionals. This consisted of three elements: a new system of promotion and salaries, a new system of housing support and a system of law enforcement health damage care. As regards the increase in salaries, as of 1 July 2015, police and professional officers increased on average by 50 percent because not only police officers, but also firefighters, bv-ers, workers in disaster management received their salaries, and let me point out that every professional law enforcement and defence professional received a gross HUF 500 thousand allowance in December 2019 was affected by nearly 60 thousand law enforcement professional personnel. This salary increase was continued, and in January 2020 we introduced a new form of income increase of 10 per cent, an additional allowance regulated at ministerial level, which will be granted to professionals from 1 January 2020. I would also like to say that we appreciate, recognise the performance of professional staff, we have introduced wage rules that make this system attractive. Let me draw your attention to the national consultation. There are two questions about illegal migration. We hope that people will respond to this in as many ways as possible, thereby strengthening the government's commitment to combating illegal migration. Let me tell you one more important circumstance. Parliament shall vote on the 2021 budget on 3 July, with the necessary resources for border protection and against illegal migration [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We'll make sure it's for a fight. If this is important to you, then I ask you to vote in favour of that budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Simicskó, notary of the Parliament, applied for a speech from the KDNP Group on the title of cross-border economic development. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Over the past ten years, our country has suffered a number of crises, and since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has managed effectively and successfully all crises, whether caused by flooding, red sludge, migration or even the crisis caused by the coronal virus. [[11.10]] In all cases, the government considered the safety and protection of the Hungarian people to be the first and most important aspect. This year's experience of a coronal virus epidemic has been a serious crisis and problem throughout the world, as since 1918 it has been a disease of this magnitude that has swept the world, which was the Spanish flu, we have not been able to meet; it has caused serious problems everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government has taken the necessary protection measures in time, and therefore we can consider protection to be effective. Of course, we thank all the public bodies who participated in this work, and of course we also thank the Hungarian people for their responsible behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, The effects of the epidemic are wide-ranging because it has health effects, economic impacts and safety policy implications. The Fidesz-KDNP government focused on health protection, effective and effective protection of the economy, the protection of jobs and the protection of families. Let me point out here that it was clear to everyone who could be expected in distress, danger, and crisis. Hungarians could count on the Hungarian government and count on them in the future. Dear Parliament, The protection of the economy is a key priority, the development of the Hungarian economy is a priority, as it creates the basis for everything. This will provide additional resources and opportunities for investment, development and quality of life for all sectors. In the Economic Protection Fund, planned by the government in the next year's budget, a significant amount is available, as HUF 2555 billion allows protection to be effective in the field of the economy. However, it is also important to look into the Carpathian Basin, it is important that we are responsible for all Hungarians here in the Carpathian Basin, and it is not only a question of national policy, but also a question of the national economy, how their lives and living standards develop. Therefore, KDNP considers it important that the programme launched by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, aimed at improving the quality of life of Hungarians across borders, improving the economy, building kindergartens and crèches, can be implemented as effectively as possible. Many of our opposition fellow Members are asking why this is necessary, and why it is not necessary to put the economy in order at home first. These two are connected, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, the Hungarian economy must also be restored at home and put on a growth path, so the government will carry out all sorts of economic recovery programmes, but when they ask how it is necessary and good, we can safely say that, yes, this economic development programme is good for the Hungarians living beyond the border, and it is good for those belonging to the majority nation, and it is good for Hungary, whose economy can be expanded in both quantitative and geographical terms. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a very important effort for the government to increase the competitiveness of the Carpathian Basin and Hungary. We see that this economic recovery development programme has a very significant impact and importance in achieving this objective. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó has said on several occasions, we must also build a success story with neighbouring peoples, and Hungary is a leader in this, since we do not see such activity in other countries of Europe. So what the Hungarian Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are doing for economic development is exemplary. It is important to turn the region into an attractive investment centre, which is also the key to achieving these economic recovery programmes. We see and welcome the availability of HUF 36.5 billion from the Economic Protection Fund to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; this is very important. I have seen it, there have been a lot of people here in the last few years, there have been tens of thousands, nearly hundreds of thousands of applications that show that there is a demand for this from Hungarians and businesses and entrepreneurs across the border, and the government gives us the opportunity to develop it. I would stress that our responsibility for Hungary, for Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, is clear, so we support the government's efforts on the part of KDNP. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-16-24	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to Mr President's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this up. Given that, in our case, the borders of the country do not coincide with the borders of the nation, from then on, the priority of the current government policy in Hungary is to support Hungarian communities across the border. This is a unique responsibility that all governments must assume. With regard to Hungarian national communities living across the border, our aim is to establish and build a relationship with neighbouring countries in which Hungarian national communities across the border are not a source of conflict, but a source of resources. This is why we have built common success stories with neighbouring countries in the framework of pragmatic foreign policy in recent years, because we believe that common success stories, whether in terms of transport, energy or cross-border developments, can provide a basis for discussing even more sensitive issues with the hope of success, for opening consultations on them with the hope of success, and there is the hope that we can close them all the time. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, So if I wanted to set the goal very simply for neighbouring countries, I could tell you that we want to be friends with them; because if we are close, it is also good for the Hungarian national community living in the territory of that country. This, I believe, is clearly demonstrated by the experience of the past few years. We can refer to the dynamics of Hungarian-Serbian or Hungarian-Slovak relations. Ladies and gentlemen, However, when we make political decisions about nationalities and national communities, it is extremely important to be aware that we do not have to tell Budapest what is good for the given national community, but we have to ask them what they need on the spot, and what they say we have to do. And when we asked in 2015 what is the most important governmental decision we have to make from the point of view of Hungarian national communities across the border, we were clearly told to strengthen economically the Hungarian national communities across the border. Therefore, in 2016, we launched the cross-border economic development programmes, in which, ladies and gentlemen, over the past four years, we supported 55 419 Hungarian businesses across borders and Hungarian farmers across borders with a total of 129 billion HUF and Hungarian budgetary resources during their investments. As a result of this budget support, a HUF 236 billion investment was made in Hungarian territory across the border. This HUF 236 billion investment strengthens the Hungarian national communities across the border, strengthens the economy of the country, as these supported companies employ local suppliers and pay taxes locally. They thus contribute to strengthening the country's economy and contribute to making bilateral relations more successful. At last week's visit to Budapest by the Prime Minister of Slovakia, we also agreed that the conditions under which we will continue the economic development programme in the Highlands will soon be on paper. Next week, Thursday, at the meeting of the Ukrainian-Hungarian Joint Economic Committee in Kiev, I hope we can agree on how we will continue this economic development programme in Transcarpathia, and the government has provided the necessary resources to ensure that we can pay for the cross-border businesses already won the tenders this year, and there will also be additional funds available next year for the cross-border economic development programmes. So finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, according to the Government's decision, we are pursuing economic development programmes across the border. In Vojvodina, Transylvania, Transylvania and Székelyland, Upper Hungary, Muravidék and Drávagyeg local Hungarian businesses can count on the Hungarian government to finance, support and support their development and investments in the future as well. Thank you for raising this subject, thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2020-06-16-26	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I ask you to allow Erik Bánki to take his place. Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Member Erik Bánki of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the outbreak of the coronal virus epidemic, the Government of Hungary has introduced a number of economic protection measures aimed at reducing the economic downturn caused by the epidemic, protecting jobs and creating new jobs. The Fidesz fraction welcomes and fully supports the government's decisions to protect jobs. In our view, we do not need to deal with a crisis with austerity, as the left has done before, but with job creation and economic promotion. We will do everything in our power to get the economy back on track in Hungary as quickly as possible. Our goal is to make more and more new investments every day. The general budget of 2021 is also intended to ensure that, in addition to protecting people's health, the economy is able to return to its former, outstanding growth path at European level as soon as possible, following successful control of the epidemic. This is the aim of Hungary's biggest programme of economic protection, the implementation of which will, of course, continue in the 2021 budget. Ladies and Gentlemen, If we look at international examples, we can say that Hungary is also performing outstandingly in this area, as there are three of the 27 Member States in the whole European Union, i.e. three countries that spend 20 percent or more of the total GDP on economic recovery. These three countries, together with Hungary, are Czech Republic and Germany. In total, there are 10 countries from 27 European countries that have been and have been able to accept an economic recovery package of 10% or more of GDP in recent years. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should be proud of the courageous government attitude, the determined goals that the government has set and which the Fidesz faction will fully support in the next period. The aim and role of the economic recovery package is to create as many new jobs as possible, to support as many investments as possible. In 2021, more than HUF 2550 billion will be available in the Hungarian budget for this purpose. Hungarian people, jobs and work are at the heart of our thinking. We fully agree with the government's objective of creating as many jobs as the crisis has taken from us. Our aim is to maintain Hungary's financial independence in the meantime. Of course, we want to use the aid in the most efficient and efficient way. Dear House, The economy must be restarted. The priority areas of intervention are those sectors whose operation has been blocked by the spread of the virus and those that have traditionally had a strong past. The Government of Hungary has been working hard for months to ensure that economic recovery and economic recovery can be successfully launched. On the other hand, rather than handing out a hand in trouble, it would help us to make these decisions as quickly as possible, the left is rooting specifically for the government to be as successful as possible in this area. This is not surprising, ladies and gentlemen, because this is what we have seen from you in the time of the Bokros package and in the treatment of the 2009 economic crisis, that for you it is important not for the Hungarian people, not for the Hungarian economy, not for keeping jobs, but for them to take away as much as possible from people. Let's see how the left-wing government handled the crisis in 2009. He closed the 13th month pension, reduced the duration of the pension, increased the rate of the general sales tax by 5 percentage points, included the family allowance in the tax, increased the retirement age, reduced the pension, took a month's wages from the public sector, wanted to introduce a property tax, but he didn't have time for that, and yet he owed the country another big IMF loan. Dear House, I think that we do not need to draw far-reaching conclusions in order to determine the difference between the civil government's economic recovery measures and the people's actions on the left. I think, fellow Members, that we have no other purpose than to ensure that Hungary survives this crisis with as little losses as possible, that the Hungarian people can get through this period as much as possible, that they can get to work as soon as possible and that they can ensure a higher standard of living for their families. Fidesz fully supports Hungary's Government in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-16-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Péter Szijjártó responds on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2020-06-16-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Hungary has successfully completed the first stage of protection against the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you to all Hungarian people who took note of the restrictive measures in a very disciplined manner. However, it is, of course, necessary to defend itself against the coronal virus epidemic not only in the health field but also in the economic area, since the coronal virus has put people's lives and health at risk, but also in their workplaces, at risk. In each period of economic challenges, the economic philosophy debate arises that aid should be distributed or that budget resources should be concentrated on saving jobs and creating new jobs. Aid leads to indebtedness, and debt leads to vulnerability, and therefore Hungary will be protected, as always. The government's economic protection plan focuses on creating jobs and protecting jobs. I would like to inform you that, taking advantage of the European Commission's decision, we support the investment of 806 Hungarian companies up to an amount of EUR 800 000, which has committed 806 Hungarian companies to keep the jobs they already had before the pandemic. I would like to inform you that 806 Hungarian companies will invest HUF 377 billion in Hungary in the next few months with the support of the government. When the news of the world economy is about bankruptcy, closure of factories and the disappearance of companies, Hungarian businesses will invest more than EUR 1 billion in over HUF 370 billion in the next few months, thus protecting 143 618 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, The thanks and appreciation are also due to Hungarian businesses who, in the face of extraordinary difficulties and challenges, have taken bold decisions and investments to protect jobs instead of cutting down and complaining. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the companies that our opposition colleagues call kissers and Fidesz hirers to multinational companies: Bálind Kereskedelmi Kft. Mernye, Nyíregyháza Orha Works, Fülöp Művészet Kft. About Saltkút, Pátzay Szolgáltató Kft. About Badacsonytomaj, Gönczi Kft. From Sopron, Karsai Plastic Processing Orosháza, Pata József Machine Industry Ltd. About Fajsz, Szalai-Busz Szolgáltató Kft. From Kiskunfölgyháza. These are the Hungarian businesses, which form the backbone of the Hungarian economy, and these are the Hungarian businesses that will make Hungary, the Hungarian economy, stronger than it was before, after the pandemic. These are the companies that are being attacked by our opposition fellow Members, while the first tender, the 1st tender for this issue, was submitted by János Kóka's company and, of course, won, as we always help Tamás Leisztinger's businesses and investments through state resources. Because we don't register who's a voter, we don't register who's pulling where. The investment of a Hungarian enterprise protects the workplace of Hungarian people and creates work for Hungarian people, so it is in the interest of the Hungarian national economy to support these companies, regardless of any political sympathy. Ladies and gentlemen, We're moving on. I would like to inform you that Hungarian companies will have another opportunity to apply from Friday. [[11.30]] With a budget of HUF 25 billion, the possibility of supporting cross-border investment will be announced to companies operating in Hungary from Friday. Hungarian companies who invest in cross-border areas can receive a total of EUR 800 thousand in a single amount of aid, which can reach 60% of the amount invested if it protects Hungarian and cross-border jobs. Because in our case, the borders of the country and the nation do not coincide, we are also responsible for Hungarians living outside the border, and this must also be expressed by decisions, not just by words. So from Friday, with a budget of HUF 25 billion, Hungarian companies can count on EUR 800 thousand each if they invest across the border. We hope that as many as possible will take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-30	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Congressman Varju, I see you brought stuffed dolls into the Chamber. I'd love for you to give that to my youngest granddaughter celebrating her name day, but if you don't want to give it to her, please take it outside. [[Defiance. A round of applause from the ruling parties. László Varju intervenes, then stands up, takes the stuffed animals into his hands and leaves the Chamber.]] because you did not ask for an illustration, and accordingly, this is not possible. [[Noise.]] I now invite Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-06-16-31	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dóra Dúró, independent; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; László Varju, DK; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz.
u2020-06-16-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for today's extraordinary meeting is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will have a presence check, but before that, I will ask the staff of the technical box and the staff of the hall service to check the adjustment of the voting machines in the horseshoe. I'd like your technical staff to give me a signal back, if that's all right. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We're holding the presence check now. Please press one of the buttons on the voting machine now. [[Attendance check.]] 192 congressmen are present, 7 are absent. Parliament has a quorum. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on emergency proposals. The author initiated the T/10954 on the Central European Built Heritage Conservation Foundation and on the grant of property to the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation. The Parliament will also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. The emergency proposal is T/10954/2. You've been able to get to know him from the website. Mr László Varga, please describe the emergency proposal. Here you go, notary.
u2020-06-16-33	Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules OGY Decision hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ 60. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to paragraph 1 of the Section, I propose the T/10954 on the Central European Built Heritage Conservation Foundation and on the grant of property to the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation. Urgent trial of bill No 1. It is necessary to order an urgent hearing in order to bring the legislative provisions into force at the scheduled time. I propose that the general debate of the bill be held on Tuesday 16 June 2020 in accordance with the proposed agenda, until the conclusion of the bill; that an amendment be submitted on Tuesday 16 June 2020 until the conclusion of the general debate; that the detailed debate be opened with the conclusion of the general debate of the bill; that the Legislative Committee be referred to as the HSZ 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate.
u2020-06-16-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/10954 will be brought to an urgent hearing. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing by 149 votes, 39 against and 5 abstentions. I ask Mr B. Big, who indicated on a point of order that he had a problem with his voting machine: is he all right now? [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. It's okay. Dear Parliament, The author initiated that the 1991 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. T/10990. The Parliament will also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. The emergency proposal is T/10990/1. We got to know him on the website. Mr László Földi, please describe the emergency proposal. Here you go, notary.
u2020-06-16-35	Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules OGY Decision hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ 60. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, I propose XLIX of 1991. T/10990. Urgent trial of bill No 1. It is necessary to order an urgent hearing in order to bring the legislative provisions into force at the scheduled time. I propose that the general debate of the bill be held on Tuesday, 16 June 2020 as the last item on the agenda until its closure; that an amendment be submitted on Tuesday, 16 June 2020 until the conclusion of the general debate; that the detailed debate be opened with the conclusion of the general debate of the bill; that the Legislative Committee is the HSZ 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. In view of the above, Article 15 TEU provides: § 4 and 16. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, I shall initiate the amendment of the proposal for a special meeting of the Parliament on 16 June 2020 with a general debate on the proposed bill. The amendment to the agenda is justified by the social interest in the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. [[11.40]] TURVF-Á/6/2020, which proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament. In addition to the proposed bill, the Annex to this letter is attached.
u2020-06-16-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, At the same time as the urgent discussion was initiated, the Government proposed that the agenda be added to the presentation so that the general debate would take place as the last item on the agenda until the conclusion. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking you, T/10990 is going to be in an urgent meeting. and the date of the general debate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has put the motion to an urgent hearing by 151 votes in favour, 42 votes against and one vote in favour. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki Fideszes, our fellow Member, initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/10993. The Parliament shall also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. The emergency proposal is T/10993/1. We've all been able to get to know him from the website. Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament, please present the emergency proposal. Here you go, notary.
u2020-06-16-37	Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules OGY Decision hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ 60. As an author, I propose the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/10993. Urgent trial of bill No 1. It is necessary to order an urgent hearing in order to bring the legislative provisions into force at the scheduled time. I propose that the general debate of the bill be held on Tuesday 16 June 2020 until the closure of the bill. An amending proposal should be possible on Tuesday 16 June 2020 until the general debate is closed. The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill. The Legislative Committee is the HSZ 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. The HSS is 60. I shall attach to my letter the number of supporting signatures required under paragraph 2 of paragraph 2.
u2020-06-16-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/10993. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has put the motion to an urgent hearing by 153 votes in favour, 38 votes against and one vote in favour. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the agenda for the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament on 16 June 2020 be supplemented by the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/10993. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 in such a way that the general debate takes place as the second item following the decisions until the closure. With all due respect, anyone who agrees with that, I want you to vote hand lift. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Decisions are now being made. In today's decisions, we also decide to adopt legislative proposals requiring a qualified majority. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the 50th House Rule of Procedure. In accordance with Section 3 of the Act, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the legislative proposals, this also includes, without any further specific decision, the removal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. LXXVII of 2006 on the publication of the Protocol of 3 June 1999 adopted in Vilnius amending the Convention on International Carriage by Rail in Bern on 9 May 1980 and amending the Convention on International Carriage by Rail in Bern on 9 May 1980, adopted in Vilnius on 3 June 1999. T/10515. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/10515/6, and its summary report T/10515/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The author of the bill T/10515/5. has submitted an adjustment, which was available to all of us on the IT network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10515/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 189 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10515. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I'm asking you... I'm sorry, but I had to change the script because the previous script was wrong. The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. T/10524. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10524/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment and T/10524/6 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10524/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 145 votes in favour, with 49 abstentions, without voting against. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10524/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, with 48 abstentions, without voting against. [[11.50]] Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. T/10724. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the house rules are set at 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Congressman Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 158 against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, Since the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment and there was no amendment to the proposal, we are now deciding on the submitted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10724. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 166 votes, 5 votes against and 23 abstentions. Next up is the 2019 LXXI on Hungary's central budget for 2020. T/10735. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10735/6, and T/10735/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 1 was tabled by representatives of Sándor Burány, Timea Szabó and Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 129 against and 22 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10735/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10735/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 51 against and 5 abstentions. We now have the P/10760 on the protection of national identity. Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of the adoption of the political declaration. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the P/10760. The text of Policy Declaration No 1 has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the political statement with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. T/10303 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1003/5. T/10303/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 to 22, 24, 25, 27 and 28, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1003/5. Point 1-22, points 24, 25, 27 and 28 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 181 votes in favour, with 10 abstentions, without voting against. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1003/5. The points that require a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 183 votes in favour, with 10 abstentions, without voting against. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1003/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 183 votes in favour, with nine abstentions, without voting against. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1003/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 184 votes in favour, with 9 abstentions, without voting against. Dear Parliament, I'll inform you of the house rules... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, there's been a reading. It follows that T/10516 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the promotion of adoption. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10516/11 and T/10516/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 6 by Amendment No 2, the Group of Dialogue. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendments 2 and 6 have tabled proposals with the same content as those put forward by Mrs Krisztina Hohn and Mrs Timea Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 60 votes in favour, 131 against and 3 abstentions. [[12.00]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 7 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10516/11. Point 7 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted point 7 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 171 votes in favour, with 22 abstentions, without voting against. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10516/11. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which required a simple majority, by 170 votes in favour, with 22 abstentions, without voting against. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10516/15. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 171 votes in favour, with 22 abstentions, without voting against. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10516/15. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 171 votes in favour, with 22 abstentions, without voting against. Next up is T/10521 on the Erzsébet Camps. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10521/8. and the summary report by T/10521/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 132 against and 22 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10521/8. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes to 50, with one abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10521/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 138 votes in favour, 52 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10521/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, 52 against and 3 abstentions. It follows a series of T/10527 on the Special Economic Zone and amending certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10527/5. T/10527/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/10527/5, the author is entitled "T/10527/5. A separate vote was initiated on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the point that has been asked for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 3, 5, 6, 7, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10527/5. Point 3, 5, 6 and 7 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 2 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10527/5. Point 2 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 186 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10527/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[12.10]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10527/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10527/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. It is now time for the T/10747 on emergency eradication. Final vote of bill No 1. Ladies and gentlemen, Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10747. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10747. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 191 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: National, Christian, family-friendly government.]] It is now up to the T/10748 on transitional rules for emergency eradication and health preparedness. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10748/14. T/10748/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the house rules are set at 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 7, 8 of the MSZP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 4 abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Mr Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Parliament did not maintain Amendment 7 by 38 votes in favour, 53 against, with two abstentions. [[There are 38 yes, 153 no and 2 stays on the scoreboard.]] Amendment 8 is also proposed by Mr Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not maintain Amendment No 8 by 59 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 60 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 58, 59, 60 and 61 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10748/14. Proposal No 58 requiring a qualified majority, points 58, 59, 60 and 61. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 54 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10748/14. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10748/18. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 54 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10748/18. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 56 against and 3 abstentions. It follows that T/10755 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the name change of Csongrád county will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. [[12.20]] Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10755. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 189 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10755. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 190 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. The general debate on the proposal on the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation and the implementation of the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation until closure follows. The government referral is T/10954. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-06-16-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the cornerstones of the foreign policy of Hungary and the Hungarian government is the construction of strong Central European cooperation. In this work and in achieving this goal, of course, we cannot be prevented in many cases from having different memories and different interpretations of the common history of the peoples of the region. We Hungarians are not looking for differences in the past, but we are looking for common points between the present and the future when we make decisions about successful cooperation. In the spirit of this approach, we will engage in dialogue with all neighbouring countries. We have managed to achieve spectacular results in the construction of mutual success stories in several ways over the past period, and it is enough to talk about the dynamics of Hungary's relations with Serbia or Slovakia here. We believe that bringing together agreements and success stories on practical matters will have an overall positive impact on the relationship between the two countries as well as on the living conditions of the national community in the territory of that country. Ladies and gentlemen, However, this should not obscure the responsibility for our previous joint successes and for providing valuable elements of our common heritage. Among others, the unique architectural heritage of Central Europe, built and left by the nations living here, our ancestors. The Government of Hungary has a responsibility to strengthen the cultural foundations of Central European identity. That is why we consider it especially important to take special care to preserve the architectural performance of our predecessors and to care carefully and with due care. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before the National Assembly proposes the creation of the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation and the way in which it will benefit the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation. The bill provides, on the one hand, for the establishment of the foundation itself, for the purposes of public interest, for the tasks related to the establishment and, on the other hand, for the provision of the State's assets to be provided by the founder for the performance of the tasks. Pursuant to the Trust Foundation Act, a trust fund may be established for the management of the property assigned to it by the founder and the resulting income for the purpose of carrying out the tasks specified in the articles of association and of providing financial benefits to the person or persons designated as beneficiaries. On the basis of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the Foundation's task is to contribute to the preservation of buildings and buildings that are not protected by monuments or monuments in the Central European region, but have cultural, historical, artistic, architectural value and are of Hungarian significance. The Foundation would carry out its activities in order to preserve, renovate and maintain these buildings and structures, as would ensure the conditions necessary for the study and examination of these buildings and structures in terms of education, scientific, research and architectural aspects. [[12.30]] This requires, in many cases, the direct or indirect purchase of these buildings and structures. In addition, the Foundation would also help the work of educational and scientific organisations and institutions, covering these buildings and structures, linked to the preservation, preservation and protection of the built heritage. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve all these objectives, the bill defines the functioning of this foundation and the operational objectives of this foundation as being of public interest. The Foundation shall carry out an economic activity directly linked to the achievement of its objectives, in which it manages the assets assigned by the founder and the assets allocated by the members and donors of the Foundation. Supporting the Foundation's objectives is a matter that transcends the party's political dimension, which constitutes a defined task of the current government, based on a wide range of social expectations. On the basis of the bill for the foundation, MANEVI Zrt. and Comitatus-Energy Zrt. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and the Government shall provide for the additional assets of the Foundation, by the transfer of the assets of the founder. According to the Act on National Property and adopted in 2011, and the Law on State Property and adopted in 2017, the transfer of the ownership of state property can only be carried out under the conditions laid down by law and in the cases defined by law, as a rule, only on the basis of the provision of law. In the light of the provisions of the Law on National Property and the Law on State Property, the foundation's assets would also be allocated to the Foundation with the provisions of this Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Given that this is about the implementation of an important national objective, I ask you to support this bill and vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-40	Thank you very much, Minister Peter Szijjártó. I salute my fellow Members. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-16-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The power of a nation lies in its ability to convey to posterity all the tradition, culture, memory that the man of present times inherited from his ancestors. It's kind of our property and property. Unfortunately, the situation of Hungarians is special in Europe, outside our present borders our ancestors have given us a built heritage that, without the care of the mother country, would most likely become annihilation in the near or far future. This bill fits well among the national policy goals set out in 2010. Of course, I could list a number of examples from recent years to protect the built heritage across the border. I would like to mention the renovation of the Rákóczi Castle in Bors in the framework of the Rómer Flóris plan or the restoration of the Reformed Church in Palágykomoróc. But the renovation and preparation of the Art Nouveau building of the former Pannonia Hotel is taking place in Satmarnéti. This bill serves the noble purpose of bringing the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation to life to support the survival, preservation and maintenance of buildings which are not protected by monuments or monuments in the Central European region, but which are important for Hungarians. It is undisputed that this is our common cause, with which, if you will, we are doing great service to posterity. Now, many buildings can be saved, but if we don't act, in 5-10 or 15 years we might just find ruins. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, The text of the Act states that the statutes of the Foundation must ensure that the Board of Directors of the Foundation is designated in the articles of association for the exercise of the entire scope of the rights of founding. The financing of the already existing task will be significantly transformed by the creation of the Foundation and by the allocation of assets to it by this bill. I'm hoping this will put the Carpathian Basin backup at a higher level. In my opinion, self-management can provide the foundation with a sound and stable financial background for carrying out its task. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the foundation for the preservation of the built Hungarian heritage and the provision of financial resources. The aim of the bill clearly goes beyond party policy, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-16-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very important bill ahead of us, and this proposal concerns a very important area. In order to begin my speech as a keynote speaker, I would like to cite an example in this regard, namely, I would like to say a few thoughts about the life of Flóris Rómer. He is considered the father of archaeology in Hungary; art historian, painter, university professor. Born in Bratislava in 1815 and died in Oradea in 1889. He was buried in the cemetery in Váradolas, and this cemetery in Váladolas is a good example of how important our national values were, after Trianon, elsewhere. The Cemetery of Castle was Oradea's Hásongárd. It was opened in 1779 and buried here by the citizens of Oradea, the prominent church, literary and public people, it was their final resting place; it was also a resting place for bishops, university instructors, famous architects, painters, literary artists, mayors, the historic families of Bihar county. And what happened to him after Trianon? It was called Mihai Viteazul, a historical Hungarian public area, and it became a foreign name for this old Hungarian public area from the history of the county and the city. His example shows why it is important to preserve memories beyond the border. This, I think, is a very, very important obligation for generations in the motherland as well. I summoned Flóris Rómer here because he had a plan, a plan of the government, designed in 2015 to preserve and renovate Hungarian monuments in the Carpathian Basin; his task was to research and document a Hungarian-related built heritage. The project will be implemented by the Teleki László Foundation. So it also shows that Rómer Flóris is a very important person in this regard. But I would like to cite a few examples of what is very visible about the form in which the works of art that have been built or built across the border have been put at risk in recent years. It is necessary to see that when something is destroyed, a monument is usually conscious, its purpose is to obscure the real historical past, to forget it, often to replace it with a new monument with a new ideology. Sándor Reményik wrote about this: "There is a black forest between us, / There is a bitter trench between us, / There are broken statues, mute bells / There are ghosts among us. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how he wrote about it, since it was a broken statue, a torn Hungarian past, which marked the situation after Trianon beyond the border. I would like to draw attention to some monuments that were very important for the Hungarian state. The year 1896 was the year VIII. Law article set up monuments and millennia monuments in Hungary. This was the statue of Árpád Dévényi; where the Danube entered the Hungarian territory, the work was erected in 1896 by the statuer Gyula Jankovits, which also reminded me of the Battle of Bratislava in 907. The statue of the Hungarian soldier of Árpád stood on the top of the 21 meter high Corinthian stone pillar. [[12.40]] What happened to him? It was blown up in 1921. From the week, the other monument was the Millennium Monument of Zobor Hill near Nitra: it was built on the top of the 587 meters high Zobor Mountain, on the scene of one of the last triumphant battles of the conquest, where Huba, Zoárd and Kadocsa leaders fought their glorious battle. And what happened to this Millennial statue? In 1921 the monument itself was demolished. The Millennial Memorial of Work was almost the same. The millennial monument of the work could not be demolished, they dared not blow it up; it was erected, and the four and a half meters span was removed. The Millennium Monument in Brasov also came to a similar fate: the Arpadian armed warrior standing on the 21.5 m tall Dór columns, which was the work of Gyula Jankovics, was detonated by Romanian nationalists standing on Mount Cenk in Brasov. The Millennial Monument of Zimony Hill was a bit better, since it was completed in 1896 with the Turul statue, and it was placed on a 37-metre-high building that the people called the Hunyadi Tower with a Turul statue with a wingspan of 4.5 metres on top of it, which was the pair of the statue of the Worker, and in 1924 Serbian youths also crushed it, crushed the statues, the symbols, and the inscriptions. But the statue of Mary Theresa in Bratislava and the statue complex were also accompanied by the same. So what you can see is that these Hungarian memories, which have crossed the border, have not really been appreciated by posterity, have not been able to protect them. It is therefore very important that what still exists today, the built heritage, located in the Carpathian Basin, Central Europe, beyond our current borders, should be protected in some form. But while we are at it, I would also like to make a criticism of the last decade of the government in relation to the heritage protection system. Professionals have been criticizing the government's heritage system. The government is primarily accused of spending billions on prestige investments in the capital, while the professional institutions slowly degrade and vegetate. There are ad hoc decisions in the area, there is no one to frame this, there is no one to unite the policy in this direction; there is no direction, there is no interest in shaping the rules of the heritage protection system in Hungary over the past decade. Pushing and dismembering the institutions has only made things worse, there is constant uncertainty, so the best professionals have left this area. There is no comprehensive concept of heritage conservation. The government has almost completely abolished the protection of monuments in Hungary by combining the few areas of expertise. There was also the Office for Cultural Heritage, but the CHR, which was abolished, and its tasks were transferred to the government offices; there, under the direction of political leaders, they took decisions with guardianship or, for example, plant protection, which were not rarely professionally questionable. According to some opinions, the interests of the mayors of the real estate lobby and of the Fidesz metropolitan areas were violated by strict regulation, which is why the Heritage Office was abolished, since, in the case of developments affecting monuments, the KöH carried out the building permit procedure, supervised the construction process, issued permits for use, if the construction works met the conditions put forward by the office. One of the stages of the systematic demolition of heritage was the elimination of the Forster Center. Because of the government's move to the Castle, the situation of the collections of monuments has become critical, and the photo gallery, the planning room, has been flooded by a pipe break. We can conclude that there has been a lack of change of regime in the area of heritage protection, which has been governed by daily policy, individual and various economic interests in recent years. Some have made a very serious criticism: all the way to the Ceauşescu system's conservation policy, they drew parallel to the Orbán government's conservation policy, because when Ceauşescu's village destruction plan got in the way, it was simply abolished in Romania in the 1970s, and the whole profession talked about drastic restructurings, redundancies, dereliction and institutional terminations during the Orbán government in Hungary as well. We can also see from this that there are very serious problems in the area of historic protection in Hungary. That is why we are pleased that there are legislation that will be forward-looking or initiatives that will remove this stationary water. The bill itself, which has been submitted, and which is about the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation and the asset allocation to the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation, is essentially eligible, since important objectives are defined in it, the historic, cultural and cultural heritage with cultural, historical and artistic value, and the other, the preservation of values is the goal of this foundation. They can be owned by the foundation, which he buys, which have cultural, historical, artistic and architectural value from a Hungarian perspective, and the preservation of this is very important for the consciousness of the Hungarian nation, for the preservation of the Hungarian nation's belongings, our memories and our built memories. The legislation is about asset management and also about the assets it provides to the Foundation, what it provides, what it will be able to manage. It is very important to note here that the amount which will be made available to the Foundation as an asset allocation is an incredibly small amount to achieve the objective, i.e. from this amount, which will be allocated and transferred to the Foundation as an asset allocation, cannot fulfil the objective set out in this proposal. We are talking about hundreds of millions, we are going to talk about exactly 187 million HUF, which is the Hungarian built environment, the built environment across the border, to protect Hungarian monuments, we can say zero. We are talking about hundreds, thousands of monuments that we should protect. Recently there was a professional convention in Marosvásárhely, where it was said that there were only about a thousand buildings in Szeklerland, the preservation of which would be important, which holds an important value for the Hungarian nation, and some of which, if we did not touch it, could become part of the decline in a few years or a decade. It is therefore very important that this foundation be able to manage as soon as possible with the amount it has placed next to it, and it can fulfil the objective for which Parliament would establish it. Another thought about the shares the foundation receives. MANEVI Zrt. 100 ordinary shares, as well as Comitatus-Energia Zrt. You'll get 8700 ordinary shares. MANEVI Zrt. was established on 1 March 1997 and is owned by the Hungarian State, the holder of ownership rights by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The company's subscribed capital, as I said, is HUF 100 million. Its main activity is to rent and operate own rented real estate, but the net turnover of this company was, for example, HUF 1 million 841 thousand in 2018, but the result of the taxed was HUF 3.1 million in 2013 or HUF 1.3 million in 2016 I do not know what this amount, which revenue will be used for. This would not be a factor of ten, but a factor of one hundred or, where appropriate, a thousand, if such a goal were to be achieved, a much, much greater amount would be needed. [[12.50]] But the same is the case with Comitatus-Energia Zrt., which has its registered office in Miskolc, dated May 31, 2011, and its main activity is electricity production. The registered capital of this company is HUF 87 million, owned by the Hungarian State, and the legal practitioner is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Number of shares: 8700 ordinary shares, each worth 10 thousand HUF. So what we're seeing is this is a very important area that we're touching right now. It is very important that we appreciate our built environment, the memories of Hungarian history, the structures that have been stranded beyond the borders. Here we are talking about churches, royal manor houses, which are slowly becoming ruins, beautiful village castles, and a lot of other things that we would be obliged to preserve. Therefore, I think that the direction should be good, eligible, but much stronger. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-16-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-16-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The protection of our Hungarian built heritage is of particular importance, as it is a crucial and indispensable element of our cultural heritage and cultural identity. Historical buildings and complexes are of aesthetic value, and there is a growing demand for knowledge and maintenance of the historical environment among the local population. The aim of the bill is to promote the activities aimed at achieving the survival, preservation and maintenance of buildings, buildings that are of historical, cultural, artistic origins, past, tradition and heritage of the Central European region, which are not protected by monuments, monuments, cultural, historical, artistic value and in Hungarian terms. In this interest, the Parliament calls on the Government to take the necessary measures on behalf of the State to establish the Central European Built Heritage Conservation Foundation in the form of a trust fund of public interest. The foundation is responsible for the preservation, renovation and maintenance of buildings, buildings that are not protected by monuments or monuments, but which are of cultural, historical, artistic, architectural significance to the history and tradition of the Central European region. In addition, the establishment of conditions for educational and scientific activities related to the preservation and protection of the built heritage, students, students of institutions, and for their foreign research and internships in employment. The buildings concerned have been and are an important part of the history and life of the local population, and since then, they are important factors of the cultural identity of each region, and their role as a community preserver is therefore indisputable. In order to protect the future generation, it is therefore also necessary to explore sustainable solutions that enable the protection of monuments not only to be preserved, but also to be able to study and examine buildings from an architectural point of view. According to the bill, the assets of the State listed in Annex 1 shall be transferred free of charge at the level of registration to the Foundation as a founding asset in order to increase the initial capital. The assets of the founder shall be made subject to the provisions of the Law on National Property and the Law on State Property. The Foundation shall carry out an economic activity directly linked to the achievement of its objectives, in which it manages the assets assigned to it by the founder and the assets allocated by the members and donors of the Foundation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal provides for significant guarantees regarding the assets to be owned by the Foundation. In the case of an intention to dispose of a package of shares to be held by the Foundation, the State shall have the right of purchase and the disposal of a third party shall take place only if the State does not intend to enter into the relevant legal transaction. In order to exercise the right of purchase, the Foundation shall make an offer by means of a declaration to the Minister submitted to the State for the purchase of the property element. If the State does not wish to exercise the right of pre-purchase or if it does not make a declaration within 90 days of notification of the declaration, the right to buy the State shall be terminated. In view of the general interest objectives and tasks of the Foundation, the proposal provides that the government shall ensure that the Foundation's additional assets are secured. Ladies and gentlemen, The achievement of the Foundation's objectives is to preserve significant historical, cultural and architectural values, as preserving our common cultural heritage is essential to preserve our cultural identity, while serving Central European cooperation in a worthy manner, and KDNP therefore supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-16-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The law establishes as a public-interest trust fund, as previous speakers have already said, the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation. It designates the acquisition, renovation, maintenance of buildings with cultural, historical, artistic and architectural values in the Central European region, the provision of the necessary conditions for the study of architectural aspects, and the support in nature or in the form of cash benefits for the research of students of institutions carrying out scientific activities and those with whom they have an employment relationship. As the speakers before me have already said, the property provided by the founders is managed independently by the Foundation, and its additional assets and budget support are provided by the Government. Hungary has been paying attention for a long time to the protection of our built heritage in Hungarian territory beyond the border. The Teleki László Foundation performed a similar task until the end of 2006 and continued its activities within the framework of the Prime Minister's Office after 2010. Within the framework of the Rómer Flóris plan launched in 2015, renovation works started at 100 cross-border properties. This is why it is surprising that, practically for the same task, without any particular explanation, another foundation will now be set up without clarifying the relationship between the two organisations. The foundation involves state-owned companies, namely MANEVI Zrt. under the control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. and also state-owned Comitatus Zrt. It will not only distribute subsidies, but it will manage the state's wealth at its disposal on its own. The two companies concerned have already featured in the domestic press a property of greater value beyond the border, such as the Pannonia Hotel in Szatmárnémeti in connection with the purchase of Hotel Dacia and the resort complex located in Lendván, Slovenia. The former is indeed part of our built heritage, but it is in an extremely neglected state, and it will require a lot of money to be renovated, but the latter is a functioning economic enterprise, and its cultural value is therefore not very much. The MSZP does not support the adoption of the bill due to unclear circumstances.
u2020-06-16-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2020-06-16-49	Dear House, The bill before us certainly serves noble purposes. I believe that we agree here on both sides of the House that the protection of built heritage is an important goal, and we also agree that Hungary has a role, of course, and in good times, if the conditions are right to participate in the renovation, maintenance and preservation of Hungarian cultural monuments located outside the borders of Hungary. [[13.00]] In the case of a prudent foreign policy and cultural policy, they are such a cohesive force, they form a cultural relationship, they build a cultural fabric in which the Hungarian cultural heritage is enriched or preserved, but at the same time the very colourful relationship system that belongs to these structures is also strengthened by the many cultural contexts in which they are embedded, they become important. So these are types of cultural measures, steps, which, in the best case, win everyone. It is no coincidence that it has been the unbroken practice of all governments since the change of regime, including, fellow Members, the left-wing governments, to provide support for such renovations in interstate cooperation or otherwise, and that they are looking for ways in which Hungary can participate in the preservation of this cultural heritage, how it can play a role in this. It is also practiced today through the Teleki Foundation, which we have a lot of problems with, but this is not the subject of this debate, however, this is an existing practice with positive results, if any, which the government is carrying out in this area today. At this moment, we are reaching the current bill, because it is all right, we agree on all this, but why do we need this bill? Neither the justification nor the ministerial exposé answered that. We do not know what the surplus means by creating a new foundation and adding a large amount of state wealth to it. Because my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre is right that this wealth will not otherwise support this kind of activity. So, in all likelihood, we will continue to use state aid and budgetary money for this purpose in an appropriate manner. I do not say that the spending of this has so far been transparent, and I do not accuse the government, as is usually the case with this type of expenditure, of this being in a rather opaque system, but we are now able to take the spending of this money a step further from the public's view and at all from the control that would allow us to at least have an idea of what kind of expenditure is being made in this area. This is a common technique of the government in other matters, from the Erzsébet camps to the sports facilities; public money is distributed by creating a foundation for an otherwise noble purpose, and it will involve state assets, and in subsequent years they will put budget support into it, and then wash their hands if it is spent in an inappropriate way. After all, the foundation has decided that it is not transparent, it is not public, the minister will say that as founder, he cannot talk about what happened to this or that. It is certainly revealing and instructive in its own way to describe in relatively detail what can be expected here, since there are rather detailed rules in case the assets are not used in accordance with the original purpose, all of this in a foundation where you will appoint the Board; it seems that you do not trust your own people either. Finally, that is indeed the case, and it does not need to be said again, because Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi has said that two public companies are being brought in here, which, in contrast to their original purpose, have acquired property across the border in recent periods. Again, the impression that you made a decision at the time, that you had these companies buy these real estates with public money, and now there may be a concept behind it, we don't know that, but neither the justification nor the exposure can tell you what your intention is with these real estates. So now the Lendvai complex is going to be a revenue-bearing part of this foundation, and we expect there to be a profit there? In the case of Pannónia Hotel, will there be state money to be renovated, and perhaps it will also generate profits? We don't know. One thing we know for sure: Lőrinc Mészáros will win the construction applications, because this is the case for all such foundations. So we cannot support this proposal.
u2020-06-16-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Mr. Team Leader!
u2020-06-16-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There has been a lot of talk here, and there is hardly any statement that I can't argue with, regardless of whether it was spoken by a pro-government or opposition representative. Thank you very much to Csaba Gyüre for an overview of the importance of heritage protection. Indeed, it is extremely important to do everything in the territory of Hungary, here in Central Europe, in the Carpathian Basin to protect the Hungarian cultural and architectural heritage. There are a lot of these elements that have also been said in my fellow Member's speech, which is not under historic protection, and we have a duty to ensure that they can be preserved by using state resources and using subsidies. And it is equally important, if not more important, to make them available to Hungarians living outside the border. We also find it difficult that the bill does not really focus on this, that the aim is to renovate these buildings, to provide them with a function that could specifically help to preserve the identity of Hungarian communities living across the border, mainly in sporadics, especially in bilingual families, in order to attract such a Hungarian educational institution. But obviously, the objective of preserving and protecting our heritage, preserving our cultural traditions is very important, and it is particularly important to talk about it and to act on it in this symbolic year, one hundred years after the outrageous peace dictatorship in Trianon. So I think that there is full agreement on this. What we are debating: we heard a statement here, my fellow Member, Hajnalka Juhász, said that there are very serious guarantees in the bill on this, and how the foundation will manage these assets, we already have a debate on this. I resent this debate because I think that, when it comes to such an important objective, which is, you can say, a national interest, we must, however, prepare the legislation particularly carefully so that these guarantee elements are clearly visible, so let us see how the current government will have an impact on the functioning of the foundation, so that the assets allocated are specifically used and used properly. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: in particular, how will the government have an impact on the functioning of the Foundation, how will it have an impact on its operation? Because according to the bill, we see it in no way. So, specifically, the foundation will not have a clearing obligation, and even if the government or a future government does not manage these assets properly, it will not be able to act. This is where the right to pre-empt or purchase was raised to the State, which is also vaguely regulated, but at the same time a situation may arise that the State cannot live, can not live, does not deal with this proposal. And we do not see any sanctions that, if there is such a property, it will be renovated, whether used for commercial purposes, and may be sold at a price if the State does not exercise its right to buy, this will give rise to huge abuses. So what I can say is that, overall, the declared objective to be achieved is very important, and that is why we considered it important that it be defined in the law much more decisively, clearly and rigorously so that the government and the government at all can keep a watch over these elements of property worthy of the Hungarian people and in the service of the Hungarian people, in accordance with their historical and cultural significance. We have concerns and questions in this regard; I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to answer them in substance. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-16-52	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2020-06-16-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am in complete agreement with the speakers before me, and I also think that we all agree with the aim of this foundation, that there is indeed a great need to preserve the built heritage of Central Europe and to protect it. So this foundation really has a noble purpose, and it has a very serious task to perform and perform. I therefore believe that it would have been important to indicate here that, if this really was a national case, the foundation should also provide the government with a broad participation in its board, i.e. guaranteeing that each parliamentary party can delegate to its board in order to enable control and transparency to be achieved. It has also been said that two companies will be transferred to the foundation as an asset, and in this connection, the question of what cultural or artistic value this hotel chain in Slovenia represents is, therefore, why it is necessary to protect it and to protect it. That doesn't come out of the whole thing at all. [[13.10]] And finally, it would also be very important to have some kind of guarantee about what my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, said that if the foundation later buys various real estates and they are being renovated, then there should be a guarantee that they will continue to be state-owned and that they may not be achieved after the renovations, really at a price below the investor circle they normally belong to. So if these amendments and these guarantees are incorporated, then we can support them, and otherwise we think that, despite the noble goals, this will not be able to fulfil this task. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-16-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-06-16-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. T/10954. We are discussing the bill on Central Europe's Built Heritage Conservation Foundation and the implementation of property for the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation. Is there a Member in this Chamber or Parliament who thinks that our Hungarian heritage should not be preserved and developed in Central Europe? That's not a congressman. Everyone agrees, for 30 years now, that all the Hungarian heritage, which is not only within our borders, but also outside our borders, must be nurtured, maintained, maintained, and performed by the current Hungarian government for this purpose. If we look at the budgets and accounts of the last 30 years, we meet in order not only within the borders, but also outside the borders, with the implementation of our discovered and acquired or refurbished inheritances, which serve this purpose. So what can we say? That there is consensus on this issue today; today, the government has countless opportunities to achieve this goal by any other means. Then we have to ask why this foundation needs to be set up and why these two state assets need to be transferred to this foundation. Unfortunately, I must conclude, however much I have been most gracious to this proposal, that the aim and the instrument assigned to it are not in any way correlated. I would also like to say that I would like to thank my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, for telling me, in addition to the historical overview, that the Hungarian heritage protection is working on domestic deficits, and I would just like to give an example only from the last period: the demolition of the monument building in the Fortuna-ház's Hess András tér yard, the destruction of the monument buildings in the district of Tabán in Szolnok, the destruction of the monument buildings in the city of Szolnok, the preservation of the Mahart-ház, despite the protection of monuments, is only the preservation of the facade and the complete transformation, or, for example, the destruction of the Radetzky barracks in Bem tér, or the preservation of the monument, so we have a number of examples from the interior, that the government does not represent the protection of heritage and monuments in Hungary. This bill says that the Parliament calls on the government to take the necessary measures to establish the foundation. Over the past few years, there have been numerous proposals such as the Government's request to the Parliament to ask the Government to do something. Well, that's not necessary at all. The government has the right to establish a foundation at any time, a discretionary right. In the event that a foundation is founded by the government and that foundation's legal status requires Parliament to amend or vote in any way a law or a new proposal, then we must bring it in and do so, but the foundation itself does not require any parliamentary mandate at all. Then, in the legislation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for the foundation, and then he will take care of it in the future. The question is: why does the Minister of Foreign Affairs have to do with cultural heritage? Am I apologizing for the fact that the Minister of Foreign Trade exercises the ownership rights of the two state-owned companies that will be given to the foundation? Well, to do that, it simply needs to write the document, but then, in order to protect the cultural heritage of Central Europe, the Minister of Foreign Affairs should not care for, supervise and support this foundation, but rather, say, a State Secretary of the EMMI who deals with, say, culture, because I do not think that this should be the task of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Then: state asset allocation to the foundation. They are two companies owned by the State. One deals in the trade of precious metals, the other deals in energy. On 31 December 2018, this MANEVI Zrt. had an operating loss of 58 million, then produced a operating profit of minus 12 million, i.e. no dividend. Comitatus-Energy Investment Trade and Services Ltd. has a loss of 30 million. There is no shares, although it has a 3 billion-dollar asset portfolio, which is actually a property in a Slovenian company, this particular hotel, and this company has a total of HUF 15 million in cash. So these are two companies which, in the future, are not expected to be able to produce dividends that serve this purpose in any way. I'm very sorry, but I'm forced to assume that these two state firms are simply being redirected into the private world, and they're using this extremely noble purpose to do so. I am very sorry that this very noble and important subject has been brought to such a level by the government. And then let's talk about legal issues, because I'm a lawyer. In this proposal, if the property transferred free of charge to the Foundation would still be sold by the Foundation, the State would be able to buy it. First of all, what's a free-of-charge asset bought back by the state? What right? Because if you're saying that you've used the wealth you've received by increasing its value and the amount of value you have to pay in the event of a buy-back, it's different again. But I can't accept why taxpayers should buy a free fortune again. This is unacceptable! Then there's the legal nonsense. There's a right to buy here, there's a ban on disposal and loading, but as it says here, I don't know if there was a lawyer around this proposal, because it's something shocking. First of all, the right to buy may be imposed; if it is concluded without a deadline, it shall live for 6 months from its first declaration. So what it says here is that if you want to alienate it, then the state will have to offer it, and your right to buy will live for 90 days, it is unacceptable because it is completely foreign to the institution of the right to buy, because either you have to determine the starting or end day of the right to buy, or if you do not determine it, it is 6 months from the starting day, so this legal institution does not work here at all. If the legislator wanted the State to have a pre-emptive right, that would have been the case. If you have a pre-emptive right, and it must be entered in the ownership sheet, it must be recorded when it comes to real estate. If it is not real estate, then it must be stated in the business register in some way, but one thing is certain: the right to buy, the ban on disposal and the right to pre-emption are completely different legal institutions, and they are mixed up in this proposal, so I really must say that it is almost incomprehensible. Then, among the provisions, if the foundation ceases without its successor, its assets will be returned to the State. And what then, please, if this foundation doesn't have any money then what's transferring to the state? Who will be responsible for the responsibility of whether this foundation or these foundations will no longer be the first to be founded by the government with the help of Parliament to achieve the goal? Who checks that the purpose for which they are destined is actually realized? [[13.20]] And by the way, if I look at what I've seen curatorial members of the foundations that have been founded in recent months, practically government officials, ministers of state are curators. Well, couldn't you just say that the State Department needs a foundation right now because he hasn't gotten one? I think, ladies and gentlemen, that if someone confuses this sacred matter, such as the protection of Hungarian heritage, with a simple business matter, and uses it to play certain state assets from under the authority of the state to other organisations, then I am very sad. Then it really doesn't make sense for us to be here, so there's no point in us doing this job. There is no such thing as having to create such a foundation by means of the government's activities, by means of budgetary resources, with the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if it is necessary to assist in the renewal, preservation and development of Hungarian heritage beyond our borders, there is no such form of foundation, and it is not possible to represent this sacred cause on the basis of the practice of the last 30 years. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-16-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There are no two-minute speakers, there are further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-16-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would argue with Mrs Varga-Damm that, unfortunately, there is not always a consensus in the Parliament on the total issues in the Carpathian Basin. Here, the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who always refused Hungarians across the border, always attacked economic development and subsidies across the border. After all, we remember that in 2010, there was also a revolution in national politics, with the unification of the nation we were able to give a realistic answer to Trianon and the shameful referendum on 5 December 2004, and since then there have been more than ten times more resources available for national politics. This can be found in more than one wallet, and I think it is very right that the whole Hungarian administration system is influenced by the national political approach that, in respect of churches, the Hungarian government as a whole takes responsibility for the protection of community NGOs, sports associations, schools or even built heritage, as we have always said that no Hungarians are alone, everyone can count on the mother country, wherever they live in the world, in the Carpathian Basin or outside the diaspora. I think that the aim of the current bill is very important and forward-looking, since the Central European region is not protected by monuments or monuments, but has cultural, historical or artistic values, and it is very important that the activity aimed at achieving historical, cultural, artistic roots, past, tradition and heritage of the Central European region is essential for the survival, preservation and maintenance of buildings and structures. We see how the monument in the Carpathian Basin has been destroyed in the last century, how no one has dealt with it. In 2015, the Hungarian government launched the Rómer Flóris programme, with which until now some 150 Hungarian monuments beyond the border have been renewed in whole or in part. It is very important to remember the beautiful functional buildings after the age of reconciliation, for example, in many places in Transylvania, if we keep them, they contribute to the survival of Hungarian communities and to the maintenance of Hungarian identity, as they have such a historical memory that we can remember the birthplace of our great poets, writers, generals or even castles that I believe to be of Hungarian national interest. This is why the Rómer Flóris Plan was launched earlier in 2015, whose main goal was to explore and recognise the values of the Hungarian cultural heritage in abroad; to create scientific research and documentation, a database, a list of what value, what national treasure is throughout the Carpathian Basin, which is constantly dying. It's very difficult to pay off a hundred years of debt in five years, and we can't, but we've started, and we're on a very good path here. I think there is a future to this plan. Of course, in keeping and maintaining diplomatic relations, of course, it is necessary to act to strengthen the good neighbourly relationship, even with the purchase, renovation and maintenance of such properties, but I also think it is in our neighbours' interest that the monuments in their territory, which have a history of Hungarian ties, remain, rather than belong to perishing. We are talking about such beautiful castles, churches whose walls have seen many hundreds of years, and have witnessed the glorious periods of Hungarian history and, unfortunately, the less glorious periods. So we can do this by improving the state of buildings in the use of communities, because there are many historical monuments that the Hungarian community still uses regularly today, whether we talk about bishops' palaces, whether we talk about schools, or about mansions and castles with a different function, which still serve the interests and aims of the Hungarian community. Obviously, it is extremely important to maintain identity, because the top of a person's identity is his conviction, faith, and it is very important that the associated monuments, where we can live our beliefs, where we can live our faith, and where we can meet people who are like-haired and think with us, they can remain Hungarian national-owned or renovated and serve the purpose of posterity. I find this initiative to be a forward-looking initiative, because we are taking the path that can repay the debt that the destruction of the world war and communism are extremely distasteful and that I may not say architecture that wants to wipe out and conceal history, but that is destruction that we are trying to overcome. We can be proud in any area, whether here in Hungary or beyond our borders, of the buildings in the Carpathian Basin, of the monuments that are witnesses of Hungarian history and which bear those wounds at present, and that is why we need to renew them, which is the historical period of thunderstorms, which has been a very great ordeal for the Hungarian nation in the last hundred years. I think it's right to step on this path. In reply to Congresswoman Varga-Damm, it is an old custom for constitutional bodies to engage in dialogue with each other. So it is no coincidence that the government has submitted the proposal in which the Parliament will ask the government to create it. It is in our parliamentary custom that constitutional bodies have this kind of dialogue with each other, and I think there is a place for the government not to decide only at a government meeting to establish such a foundation, but also for the Parliament to confirm its intention by a large majority. And when, for example, we are able to negotiate with the competent bodies of neighbouring states, we will have a strong argument in our hands, and a strong mandate that the Hungarian Parliament also supported an effort that the bill has made known to us. So thank you very much, Secretary of State, for the bill, thank you for the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in this. I think that this path must be continued, and when the Hungarian economy allows it, there is a need to spend as much money as possible for this purpose. Now we're going on this road, we've already renovated 150 buildings in the Rómer Flóris program. This is a different programme, but it serves the same purpose, so KDNP, as Mrs Hajnalka Juhász has already said, supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-16-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Next speaker Mr János Bencsik.
u2020-06-16-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We have a very important bill ahead of us. There are many monuments in the Carpathian Basin that cannot count on neighbouring countries to be interested in protecting and preserving them. There are a number of monuments that are not eligible for a European Union tender, and I think that there is full agreement here, and there is no Hungarian representative who does not consider it important that the preservation of the built heritage of Hungarian history, our historical and cultural heritage within the mother country and beyond our borders is tried as much as possible to capture and capture it for posterity. There is plenty to do, without the need for completeness, there are beautiful Art Nouveau villas along the border, I could mention the famous Owl Castle along Palic, or the Spitzer Castle in Belcsény, designed by Imre Steindl, who also planned the Parliament, in which this debate is taking place. But there's the building of the famous Zenta fire department, the Karátsonyi Castle in Beodra, or if we're on our way to Transylvania, I could mention the Csokaly Papsász mansion, or the Oradea Hussar barracks, or even the Haller mansion. But Transcarpathia is also abundant in these cultural heritages, which currently belong to the ruins and would be a monument worth a better fate. There is the ruin of the Dobó Castle in Szerednye, or the ruin church in Nagymuzszaly, but there are many monuments waiting for it to finally receive the renovation, the support with which it can shine in its old light. These great and noble goals, which I think we all agree with, do not fully cover or do not clearly cover the text of the bill before us, because there are many open questions. This either indicates that this bill was not sufficiently thought out, and that is probably why it was submitted in such a hurry, or that there is some underlying content, but that this was not shared by the rapporteur with the Parliament. [[13.30]] As the rapporteur said, this task was carried out earlier by the Teleki László Foundation, and, as my fellow Member Nacsa referred to, these monuments were renewed within the framework of the Rómer Flóris Plan. It remains unclear to me that this current foundation would take over or operate in favour of this foundation. If it works alongside it, it is not entirely clear what a separate foundation is needed or what kind of division of labour or parallel operation or cooperation will be between the two organisations. The composition of the board also raises questions. We will not know who and on what basis this board will be, who they would like to ask. At present, it turns out that Minister Péter Szijjártó will determine the composition of this foundation, but who will be members of it and on what choice we know little about it. How will this foundation work? That's another crucial question. The start-up capital, we saw, wouldn't be enough for a lot of things. My colleague Andrea Varga-Damm and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre have mentioned this earlier, that if this money is meant to renovate castles, villas, churches and schools, it will be a rather thin wallet. In this case, the question arises whether this foundation will receive some extra budget support or, in worse cases, it will go ad hocally into government decisions. We have seen the bad example that, for example, in the case of cross-border subsidies abroad, actual support is only a fraction of what is foreseen in the budget. Most of these always depend on individual decisions. Therefore, the transparency and planning of the whole is much less transparent and predictable. So what I would like to suggest is that if we create such a foundation, there should be some kind of comprehensive plan for this, which are actually the buildings that the Hungarian state would like to buy and renovate. I don't know, for example, in this connection, such plans were made as to what buildings, real estate are worth saving from waste and which are worth keeping or which are less. So I would certainly urge that there should be some kind of strategy, and that there should be some priority, and that we are trying to find the budgetary implications. Even more interesting is the question of what will happen to the reservation, who will operate these monuments, and who and how we will make these monuments useful. I don't want to be bad faith, and I don't want to be like my fellow opposition Members to be exemplary with Lőrinc Mészáros, or to point out what kind of foreign business interests may appear, I would like to be in good faith, and I would like to believe that the current foundation is not really a preparation for how public money can be shoveled out by various assignments with a difficult, transparent background. I would like to believe, and I would like to believe you that the primary objective here is to protect these historical monuments from extinction. But even if that is the case, if I am in good faith, and I assume that this is the goal, it should also be clear that if the Hungarian state has spent a lot of money to bring these buildings back to their old glory, then what will happen to them, so that we will ensure that after 10-20-30 years they do not come to a similar fate. Could it not be possible to think about how these buildings, which are suitable for some kind of activity, whether it is research or service, could be built on the basis of this? What I would like to draw attention to is that the bill before us does not contain the reporting obligation, so at present the entire functioning of the foundation seems not only opaque at present, and we do not even know who will be members of it, we will not even know what work this foundation will do, at least there is nothing to regulate that the chairman of this foundation should report on something on a regular basis. So today I have tabled a legislative amendment proposal that every year this foundation should report on its annual activities and operations, report to Parliament and to the appropriate committee. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that this project will indeed achieve the desired objective. Unfortunately, in addition to the many positive examples, I do not dispute that there are a lot of positive examples from recent years, when Hungarian-related monuments have been saved from extinction, there are less good, but more deterrent examples. We all remember investments such as the Mátyás Statue of Szabadka, which stand on a five-inch pedestal, and is currently guarding the door of a pub on a side street. Or perhaps the most famous case was the Hunyadi statue, which was eventually not at the place of the victory in Nándorfehérvár, not at the castle in Nándorfehérvár, and not at the death of János Hunyadi, the Zimonyi is waiting at the site, but at a remote location, in a parking lot, at a bus turn, the President of the Republic was able to inaugurate. I would just like to remind you that we should use this opportunity to really aim at renovations, to save buildings that we should be proud of, not things that we should be ashamed of in the end. I hope that this proposal will be implemented and implemented in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-16-60	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, who is sitting here from the rapporteur's side, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha.
u2020-06-16-61	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to thank you very much for the speeches, contributions and parts of the speeches which did not challenge it and agreed that the establishment of the Foundation is a noble objective. I trust that, if my fellow Members agree with this noble aim, they will also support this in the vote. As far as the rest of the parts of the speeches are concerned, I am a little embarrassed because at one point, the Parliament calls on the Government to set up a foundation, which, according to the speaker, would not be necessary; my fellow Member Nacsa replied to this in part. And the problem at the next moment is that the government has powers about how and how it will establish this foundation and how it will work; of course, it will have a curatorium in accordance with the law, and for that it has all the authority to do so. Similarly, in relation to the initial capital or the assets to be transferred, this is at one moment little, and at the next moment the government's mandate to provide additional assets to the Foundation in order to achieve the objective is considered excessive. But all in all, about these underlying contents, unclear circumstances and underlying intentions, I thought of one thing: politics is an experiential genre. In the last 30 years, we have found that every time the left assumes any intention, and this is a bad intention, the left has either committed it or is prepared to commit it, and the other side is accused of it. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, and I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-16-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, They had the opportunity to submit amendments until the general debate was concluded. [[13.40]] Dear Parliament, I have an obligation to notify you. I declare that T/10748 on the temporary arrangements for the cessation of an emergency and on health preparedness The number of votes cast in the decision of Amendment 7 was wrongly published. The number of votes cast is correct: 38 yes, 153 no and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Mr Erik Bánki Fideszes, President of the Commission, T/10993. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that, in line with our agreed agenda, it is possible to table amendments until the general debate is over. First, I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-06-16-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before Parliament is to create delays in the Covid-19 epidemic in all areas of the economy, including climate protection investments, delays that investors and developers could not handle without their own mistakes. Therefore, the fundamental purpose of the bill is to ensure that investments that are perfectly consistent with the government's climate protection programme can be completed by extending the deadline despite the delays caused by the virus situation. Unfortunately, the economic problems and tensions caused by the virus have not spared the renewable energy industry either. The production of solar panels is mostly done in China, but the factories also stopped there for a shorter or longer period of time, causing supply problems for suppliers who could not fulfil their obligations. However, investments not only suffered delays due to panels, but also other materials needed for construction did not arrive in time. For example, the support structures, which were also several months late, could only reach the customers. In the Hungarian renewable energy support system, KÁT, i.e. the mandatory take-over tariff, as well as METÁR, i.e. the heat and electricity relief aid scheme from renewable and alternative energy sources, sets deadlines for each investment, which, if the investment is not carried out in the meantime, loses its entitlement to the aid. Unfortunately, the current legislation on electricity does not give the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office the opportunity to exercise fairness if there is any delay in investments for any reason. In the current situation, the majority of the right holders were in a situation without their own fault, mainly due to the delays in suppliers, which would easily lead to the inability to carry out the projects. Without aid, these investments cannot at present be made in such a way as to recover them within a reasonable period of time, while they have a significant economic interest in achieving them, as they are, for example, one of the cornerstones of the fight against climate protection. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The domestic and international restrictive measures introduced by the coronal virus epidemic have hampered the smooth functioning of supply chains. Unfortunately, in ongoing projects, 210 of these investments are currently under way, with about 145 megawatts of green electricity, the commercial operation of which must start until 31 December 2020 in order to ensure that the beneficiaries do not lose the aid. The implementation of these projects is still in doubt due to the stalling supply chains. If these projects are not implemented, Hungary will fall from the production of a significant amount of clean energy, which will hinder, or at least slow down, the achievement of ambitious climate protection objectives. Ladies and Gentlemen, As you probably know, the Hungarian Government has set very strong targets to increase the renewable energy ratio. For Hungary, quite rightly, the priority is to protect the environment and adapt to climate change, as we all want to see clean water, cleaner air and the cleanest environment around us. Action must be taken against climate change, and rightly so, the Hungarian government has chosen this path. On the basis of previous decisions, the country is progressing consistently towards the 2030 targets. In Hungary, 90% of electricity generation will be carbon neutral by 2030, and by 2050, there will be no less target, ladies and gentlemen, than climate neutral emissions. And quite rightly, the government has determined that the cost of these investments should not be paid by family households, rather than by the national budget, but by the biggest polluters to pay the cost of these investments. By the end of the year, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology will develop the long-term, comprehensive national clean development strategy necessary to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. Hungary is one of the 21 countries in the world where gross domestic product has grown since 2000 while CO2 emissions have decreased by 32% in Hungary and energy consumption in Hungary by 15%. Since 2010, GDP per unit has been produced by 24 percent less greenhouse gas emissions in Hungary, which is what the Hungarian economy is capable of doing at the moment. Hungary is therefore leading not only economic growth in Europe, but is also an exemplary practice in the area of climate protection. The Hungarian Government agrees with the objectives of the European Union until 2030, because there is an EU action plan for this, and the resources needed to fulfil the commitments are also available. The government is also more ambitious than the EU's efforts to commit that the share of carbon-free electricity production, as I said, should rise to 90 per cent by 2030, should not be doubtful that the Fidesz fraction is supported. This is what the government intends to achieve by maintaining nuclear capacity, encouraging renewable electricity production and with a comprehensive transport greening programme, which we consider to be very right. Hungary, ladies and gentlemen, at the December European Council, supported the 2050 objective of achieving climate neutrality. About HUF 50 000 billion would be needed for our country to have carbon-neutral electricity production, to fully replace the use of natural gas and to place transport on a fully electric basis. This requires 2 to 2.5 percent of domestic GDP on an annual basis, ladies and gentlemen. It is a very ambitious plan, a very large amount, but it can be undertaken and achieved. It is therefore under the conditions of the Hungarian Government against the EU, rightly so that a significant proportion of the expenditure is paid by the largest polluting, climate-damaging countries and large companies, and the energy and food costs of families are not increased, not taken from the cohesion funds for catching up countries and redistributing the resources needed for these investments. In addition to the strategic documents, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology made available the results of the evaluation of the climate policy questionnaire re-launched at the end of last year. On the basis of the opinion of more than 200,000 Hungarian citizens who completed the questionnaire, it is clear that Hungarians share the government's position in climate change, as 92% of them support our country's climate neutralness by 2050. The government aims to provide clean, smart and affordable energy services to Hungarian consumers. [[13.50]] Its key objectives are to strengthen security of energy supply, to preserve the results of the reduction of electricity, to climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector, and to further stimulate innovation opportunities of economic development. With the combined use of two clean energy sources, solar and nuclear energy, the targets will be achieved by 2030, and by 2040 we will be able to reduce the share of electricity imports from more than 30 per cent on average to less than 20 per cent on average, and this, my fellow Members, is in Hungary's economic and national security interests as well. An important effort to protect the created world and our environmental heritage is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. We also undertake to increase the share of renewable energy sources in our energy use by 2030 from the current 13 percent to at least 21 percent. We are greening and making the district heating sector competitive, and we are also turning Hungary's public transport in an environmentally friendly direction. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology will therefore develop the National Clean Development Strategy by the end of 2020 on the basis of agreed documents and will strive to achieve this fully through commitments made in the budgets of the coming years. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us therefore helps to reduce our emissions of pollutants, and to be the elite at European level in terms of renewable energy use, and to help domestic businesses who cannot complete their investments due to the difficulties caused by the virus epidemic. So I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-64	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. I would like to ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak now. [[Dr. Kaderjak on Peter's signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-16-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, we welcome the proposal for an amendment of the law tabled by Mr Erik Bánki, primarily for the reasons that he has listed. On the government's part, we believe that there is a need for decisive action to protect climate protection and that the government acted when it adopted the comprehensive energy and climate policy strategy at the beginning of this year. [[Dr. László Varga is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] The Prime Minister appointed concrete programmes for the next period when he announced the climate and nature conservation action plan in February. With the adoption of the Climate Protection Act, this House has demonstrated its commitment to the goals of climate neutrality in 2050 in recent weeks. At the same time, it is true that in recent months, the Covid-19 epidemic, which has appeared in virtually all areas of the economy, has made our lives miserable, and there has been no exception for the renewable energy industry. As has already been said, I can confirm that the production of panels for the finalization of solar power plants in China has slowed down, that the factories have stopped there for a longer or shorter period, and that this has caused substantial supply problems for suppliers and developers who needed these components for the implementation of their project. Dear House, The most important objectives of the new national energy strategy and the national energy and climate plan are to strengthen energy sovereignty and energy security, to maintain the results of the reduction in electricity and to decarbonise our energy production. For countries poor in conventional energy sources, such as our country, energy sovereignty is also a welfare, economic and national security issue. In the climate and nature conservation action plan, we have undertaken to multiply the current installed capacity of solar power plants in ten years. This means that until 2022 we will encourage the deployment of 3 thousand megawatts and at least 6 thousand megawatts of solar power in all segments of consumers by 2030. The legal regulation of the Hungarian renewable energy support system sets deadlines for individual investments, which, if the investment is not completed, the investor loses his entitlement to the aid. As has been said, I would like to confirm that 210 projects have been put at risk in the form of 145 megawatts of solar power capacity, the implementation and eligibility of these projects could be lost. The projects concerned are typically solar power plants under half megawatts, and the investors' circle comes out of the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise layer. In the event of the adoption of this bill, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is authorised to establish in its decree the extension of the time limit for the start-up of the commercial plant linked to the grant entitlement, avoiding the impossibility of the investments concerned, giving the opportunity to fulfil the commitments undertaken. By adopting the bill, investors will be given the opportunity to remedy the problems caused by the epidemic, which will also help Hungary to achieve its climate targets, so we fully agree with and support the amendment of the law in this direction by the government. Dear Parliament, The bill tabled by the Member therefore clearly supports the implementation of the Government's climate and nature conservation action plan. I would also like to point out that, in addition to strengthening the renewable energy support system, the government will support the renewable energy production of small and medium-sized enterprises by HUF 32 billion over the next two years. We can promote the energy independence of families by supporting home-based renewable energy production, promoting smart meters and energy efficiency investments that maintain the results of the reduction. Due to the high efficiency of electric motors, clear end-user energy savings are achieved by the spread of electromobility, and we therefore support the emergence and use of cheap electric cars. Last month, we launched a proposal that led car dealers to lower prices at European level, which could indeed bring government support to users. We made it possible for taxi drivers to see electric cars as a real alternative, ensuring courier companies were able to apply for the support of electric scooters. The interest in the tender scheme exceeded our expectations, the applications submitted reached the 5 billion HUF framework provided on the day of the opening, and today we had to close this tender temporarily at noon. However, electromobility is not only for individual users, but also for public transport in particular. Therefore, from 2022, we will allow only the placing on the market of electric buses in urban transport, and the implementation of this programme will be implemented by the government's green bus programme. In addition, in order to achieve climate protection objectives, we will eliminate illegal landfills, punish polluters, ban the sale of disposable plastics, allow the redemption of glass and plastic bottles and metal boxes. [[14.00]] We will protect our rivers from waste coming from abroad, we will clean the Danube and the Tisza from plastics. We act strictly against companies operating in Hungary if they commit pollution. We will prescribe and expect the use of environmentally friendly technologies. I would also like to mention that the international investor world appreciates Hungarian climate policy efforts. In this context, we have also introduced the Green Government Bond, which has been awarded multiple over-subscriptions by the international market in recent weeks. The government will continue to use its revenue to finance climate-friendly programmes. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The Hungarian Government welcomes the support of the Parliament and the partnership of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to continue working together to achieve energy sovereignty. To this end, I ask you that T/10993. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]]
u2020-06-16-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-16-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you, amending the law on electricity in 2007, is to help the renewable energy industry in the difficult situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic. At the beginning of 2020 Hungary, Europe and the whole world faced a new ordeal, a global epidemic, and we still have to deal with it. Dear House, The domestic and international restrictive measures introduced as a result of the coronal virus epidemic have hindered the smooth functioning of supply chains, which has already been discussed in more detail by the government representative and President Erik Bánki. I won't repeat that. But the point is that there are serious delays due to supplier problems, and this is already seen in other materials needed for construction. In Hungary, like other countries around the world, the use of solar energy for direct energy production is increasing. However, solar energy still accounts for only a small proportion of the Hungarian renewable electricity production, although its development, we can say that it is unbroken. In essence, electricity is produced exclusively by solar power plants operating on the principle of PV. In addition to electricity generation, heat production with solar collectors is also present in the country. The increase in solar energy increased after 2014, both for small domestic power plants and for larger solar parks. The electricity produced by solar panels increased in Hungary last year. Almost 124 percent over the previous year, according to the preliminary 2019 statistics of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. Dear Parliament, For example, on 5 April 2020 solar energy produced 27.3 percent of Hungary's total electricity production for a short time. The combined capacity of solar power plants of non-domestic size, i.e. more than 50 kilowatts, reached 1016 megawatts, which represents 10.77 percent of the total gross capacity of the Hungarian system and is expected to increase in the future. Moreover, the increase is also characteristic of the domestic solar industry. According to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the total power of these small power plants reaches 460,77 megawatts. Production is most efficient in spring and autumn, because in summer, when the panels overheat, they reduce performance and their utilisation cannot be so high. National utilisation was, by the way, 16 percent. Dear Parliament, It is important to note that, if the projects concerned by the bill are not allowed to extend the deadline, a significant part of the companies that make the investment are expected to cease to exist, endangering the maintenance of jobs and the livelihood of families; on the other hand, the government aims to preserve jobs and create at least as many jobs as has been said many times in this House, as has been said in this House, as has been the result of the epidemic. With the adoption of the bill, the projects of the Hungarian renewable energy industry that play an important role in the construction of solar power plants will be assisted. In my opinion, it is important that the solar capacity in Hungary is constantly increased and the upward trend towards the use of solar energy in Hungary continues, and therefore the Fidesz fraction will support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-16-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Barcza. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-16-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In fact, I do not think there is something in this proposal that we would not support; I think other opposition parties will also do the same. After all, it is jobs, and it is an irrefutable external consequence, an external impact that these businesses are not responsible for. However, given the future, it might be good not only to look around China's markets. Obviously, I know that in terms of buying-in prices, these companies are still able to buy at preferential prices, but they may be able to draw their attention to other options. At the same time, I must also say that whenever there is a question of solar panels, on the one hand, I am very pleased that the government has recognised the importance of this in the last six months, that this is a renewable energy sector in which there is potential in Hungary, in contrast to other renewable energy sources. There are opportunities in this. There have been government efforts to do this before, when they wanted to set up solar panels on top of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian households, but since then the situation has changed a little bit, because they are thinking more about centralization, and let me tell you honestly, this is the part of me that I don't like. So there is a need for solar panels, this is obvious, but I think that households, individual users, individual producers, should be promoted, because such a system would be much less exposed to external circumstances and would otherwise give much more jobs, because think about how many companies could be involved in building, installing, purchasing and maintaining them. However, there is a little bumpiness here, and as an opposition representative, I must say that the various applications only include the circles of István Tiborcz, or, for example, the Turkish businessman Adnan Polat, who is a good friend of Viktor Orbán, and his objective is to buy up Hungarian businesses in the KÁT system that could create a 1000 megawatt solar network. I would like us to go in the opposite direction, as I have just said, to support individual households in this regard. Let us put out proposals to encourage Hungarian households to be self-sustaining, self-sufficient, because they will be able to resist external conditions much better. Thank you.
u2020-06-16-70	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Nunkovich. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-16-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member and State Secretary have also talked a lot about how this bill fits with Hungary's climate targets, and why it is important that the government has announced a climate and nature conservation action plan, what is in it and how we stand in this fight today. And given the fact that the number of sunny hours in the large part of Hungary is above 2000 hours a year, which is a positive natural geographical potential almost similar to that of the Mediterranean countries, it is best to build solar power plants in Hungary. Accordingly, solar power plants have been multiplied over a period of 10 years and solar power generation capacity of at least 6000 megawatts is in operation by 2030. [[14.10]] Solar energy and other available renewable energy sources should be used on the basis of local conditions, also at the level of municipalities and households. We also support solar power generation in households with preferential credit and a net settlement system. By doing so, we protect the results of the reduction of costs and provide cheap, innovative renewable energy for Hungarian families. However, this spring's coronal viral pandemic has caused many difficulties in all areas of economic life, including the renewable energy industry. The production of panels for solar power plants is mostly taking place in China, and I agree with my fellow Member Nunkovich that it is worth diversifying the sources of supply, but it is produced in the largest number of them, it is obviously a question of capacity, and, like many other production capacities, production of production lines there has also stopped for a longer or shorter period of time. Factory shutdowns also caused supply disruptions and delays for projects that set up solar power plants in Hungary. The Hungarian support scheme for solar power plants sets deadlines for each project, where the investor loses his entitlement to the aid if he does not comply with it. In this case, investments would not be realised, so climate protection objectives would also be shifted and the livelihoods of businesses, jobs and families would also be at risk. The bill before us seeks to avoid this situation by authorising the competent Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, on the basis of a proposal from my fellow Member, Bánki Erik, to extend the necessary deadlines, thus avoiding the impropriety of investments and the possibility of fulfilling the commitments undertaken, as well as of preserving the jobs concerned. The bill contributes to the achievement of climate protection objectives, despite the difficulties caused by the pandemic. As has been said, the projects concerned are solar power plants under half megawatts, and the investors' circle is a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise layer. There are 210 projects representing 145 megawatt capacity. I believe that this is a national interest above party policy. I am pleased that all Members can support this proposal. We are talking about Hungarian jobs, we are talking about Hungary's ambitious climate targets. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The next speaker is Mr László Szakács, lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-16-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, By the way, we do not share the enthusiasm, we see other reasons than those seen by the pro-government factions, but learning from this debate that we have heard here, at least it is good that there is a climate strategy to refer to when a sector is left out of the pandemic regulation, such as its abolition and further provisions, by accident. That's pretty much what it's all about. I understand, and I understand, and no one disputes the objectives which either the rapporteur or the secretary of state have said. There was talk of everything from electromobility to electric scooters, but I would like to draw attention to a contradiction. Secretary of State said that single-use plastics will then be banned from Hungary. We had this argument, and you took it off the table, and we brought it back, and then you voted it off. This could have been done, since it's such a big goal. And then they remembered that the jobs had to be protected. And now you've just missed another part where you might need to protect your investments, your jobs. If we are looking at the real goals, then obviously one would much rather support a proposal. If you show us the real goals and maybe you show us the real events that have happened, I might even say that after a spring that is behind us, I wouldn't even consider it a horribly reprehensible thing, if someone hadn't thought about the power generation under half megawatts, which is going on with solar energy, and then maybe we shouldn't have spilled it with such an oniony shell, and then it had all the elements of the climate strategy from electric buses to electric scooters in general, but it would simply have been said that this layer was missing, this layer was left out, that it had to be replaced, that there had to be a piece of legislation on this. However, we always say, and not to hurt you, obviously, that it is not usually the individual Member who sits at home and wonders what else might have been left out on Saturday afternoon. If the government had brought it in, there would have been intergovernmental negotiations, and the rest, but we have been used to this, that they are usually brought here as individual representatives' proposals, and, of course, this will prevent all the conciliation mechanisms. In view of all this, and of course also of the fact that we are generally afraid that if we miss an economic sector, there is some lobbying interest, and we need to look behind it, to find out which lobbying interests this legislation is going to serve, which is why we think that if we can put these cards on the table, or at least see the real goals, then we can support this proposal. And by the way, we will stick to our findings, which, unfortunately, are often true here: we have much more experience with you than we have any illusions left. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-06-16-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Cook. To the next speaker, Mr Varju László, on behalf of the DK Group.
u2020-06-16-75	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, This law, let us say, could be easily named or treated as a name law, but, for the time being or in the first thought, of course, put it in a broader context. If there is a situation in which basically legislation can only help us to help, or to help, developments in a difficult situation caused by an epidemic threat, then I think that you must do so. But I would add that, in itself, due to the significant disagreement on the development of electricity networks, which exists at least between the Democratic Coalition and the ruling parties, I can do nothing but add what was in the first sentence: okay, but then we can also specifically list who will benefit by name. So, in fact, I am now at a point where lobbyists have achieved results, and that is why this law is important to you in this regard. Therefore, my conclusion is that for this law, for this assistance or for this decision, you have to take responsibility, do so, because in itself the system that you have created is not good, even because you sometimes fall into the mistake of one of your representatives about this, i.e. the possibilities for electricity generation, where this is said and said. Here we now have to decide on concrete, ongoing developments and constructions. Whether, let us say how and how L. Simon László or other fellow Members like it is that the wind blows in Hungary or the wind does not blow, whether the sun shines or does not shine, and based on this context, any development is sympathetic or unlikable to them, I think it is indeed secondary, as I said earlier. [[14.20]] However, we cannot agree that such an unbalanced energy system is being developed, in which, in the context of sound words, there is that, yes, these projects contribute to climate protection, you know, this should be added to what I have said, that those with whom they are doing it, as they will be beneficiaries in order to create a national bourgeoisie, are about the same situation as pouring a glass of arsenic into a barrel of Tokaj aszú and the whole becomes useless. This is my view of this law, and it will be your responsibility to accept it. I wish you good luck with that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-16-76	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-06-16-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to approach this debate a little differently than my fellow Members. I consider this to be an important bill, and obviously about the criticism that MEP László Szakács said that this came in as a proposal not for government but for individual representatives. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It is possible to conduct this debate, but I think that it is a matter in which action must be taken and action must be taken, so there is a specific situation, and that, in order to achieve this hundreds of investments, jobs can be maintained and as much solar capacity as possible, this bill must be adopted. And I would like to make it clear right from the start that the LMP fraction will support this bill. I am also very pleased that this has been done with such a very general introduction by the rapporteur on behalf of the rapporteur, we have heard of ambitious climate targets, transport greening, clean drinking water, clean air, everything else, the use of nuclear energy, and I am also pleased that the Secretary of State is here on behalf of the government, taking an active part in the debate and that he has given us a general framework. I must tell you frankly that it could have been relatively simple to conclude this debate by voting in favour of this important bill, and go ahead with these investments, but both the rapporteur and the Secretary of State have said a lot of questions to me, which I would like to ask. Overall, therefore, I can say that we support this and we support all measures that increase the potential for solar energy use in the general public. We would also add that we would be more pleased if these were not to be done as greenfield investments, but as a basically built-in area, rooftops, let us say, on top of family houses, on top of panel houses, so that unused areas could be used in this way; not to mention that this means a reduction in the energy needs of the households concerned or a reduction in the ecological footprint, and that, in addition to the vast solar parks, the area can be used in this way. There is obviously much more to say here that there is a need to increase the possibility to apply for a tender so that it can really spread widely, not to mention that there is a need to launch an extensive building energy programme with a much wider offer that is much wider than the current one. I think that, in addition to climate protection objectives, this alone would also mean very serious economic potential and job creation. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, district heating, the greening of district heat, the use of district heat, and in Pécs this is an exciting question. Earlier in a debate, I indicated to Mr.Péter Kaderják that there is such a problem with the legal environment, that flats heated with biomass-based district heating cannot apply for the program of heat at home, because there is such a legislative anomaly by multiplying by zero, in Hungarian, that they cannot be detected, can be detected according to the legislation, although I think it is perfectly logical and clear that if we reduce energy consumption, so if we can achieve building-modernization, orifice replacement and the rest, we will do so for climate change. Then the Secretary of State indicated to me that this is a manageable problem. I'd like to put this on again. Many people, for example, all of Pécs's remote heating apartments are affected by this problem, that they cannot participate in the program "Home Gay" at home. This is very important. Mr Banki spoke about the question of greening transport. I immediately asked myself how he remained silent when I asked him to raise his voice against the government's decision to sentence 34 railway sidelines to death, especially because his area is affected by this question. Congressman, I would like to ask your opinion that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has decided on the killing and death of the Mohács-Villány railway line, which has obviously been faced by the Member. I wrote you a letter, and I asked that we turn to the government together in order to withdraw this outrageous measure immediately. I think it is very positive that the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV has also said that this decision is technically impossible and that all the lies that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has put behind it, for example, cost reduction; in particular, train replacement costs of 2 billion. Well, on this Mohács-Villány railway line, the original railway journey was 25 minutes, and now the replacement buses have to be bumped by passengers for an hour and two minutes. I therefore urge the Member to speak again for his own living environment and, in agreement with the professional organisations, various trade unions and the CEO of the MÁV, together with the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, to call for this shameful, unprofessional, in no way justified decision, which is contrary to the greening of transport, to withdraw and not to give back the so-called temporary pre-emergency flight frequency, but to finally develop a transport strategy by which these rural sidelines can help to stop the break-down of the countryside, even the development of the countryside, by providing an appropriate system of transport as such a regional system. I very much hope that Minister Palkovic will see that this was a gravely wrong decision and that he will also accept the opinion of the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV, and this is a step. I have one more question. The question of air purity has also been raised here. I am constantly trying at the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, but also now at the Ministry of Agriculture, to find out why the state does not participate in the recultivation work of Karolina in Pécs. If we are talking about air purity, this is one of Hungary's largest landscapes, and its very slow, very, very late recultivation carries a brutal air pollution risk, so, in particular, the dust load is very serious, and the state simply does not participate. This was originally a 2009 recultivation deadline, which was now pushed to 2032 by a continuous push. So we should wait until then for this huge recultivation work to be carried out, and despite the government planning such a budget between HUF 1.5 billion and HUF 2 billion for 2019 and 2020. And this not only poses a risk to air pollution in the vicinity of Pécs or Pécs's residential area in Pécsbánya, but also a risk to the whole city. I keep writing my written questions, and Secretary of State Schanda is sending some rather outrageous answers, and I just got the answer today or yesterday to maintain his original answer. Secretary of State, this is unacceptable. I ask you very much that I have been out on the ground several times, and that almost every day the people there are posting pictures of the huge 20-30-metre-long piles of dust that the trucks that do work cause, this is an unacceptable environmental burden, and I very much ask you to signal this to the Minister, to take this problem seriously, and that the state take part in this work, so that the dust load can be reduced and that the work can be accelerated in substance. It is quite clear that this 2032 deadline cannot be met. I'd like to refer to one last thing. Here the government's actions, climate targets, environmental protection measures have indeed been found, and the Secretary of State mentioned the issue of the disposal of illegal landfills. Here, too, I would like to mention a problem concerning my living environment, which had already been discussed before the National Assembly. [[Turning to Erik Bánki:]] Obviously, the congressman knows that there is a shockingly large illegal rubber dump near the western border of Pécs, and I myself have filed a complaint, as the owner said: "Well, anyone can lay the tyre uncontrollably there." We believe that this is not only aesthetically harmful, but also dangerous, it is an illegal landfill, and my complaint has unfortunately been rejected, given that the current legislative environment cannot do anything about it. To tell you the truth, I no longer know which of your State Secretary-General's colleagues mentioned to me in a debate that if we meet such a problem in Hungarian, that if the legal and legislative environment is not enough to solve such a problem, then the government is open to tighten up legislation so that the authorities can take action on their merits. Therefore, I would take the Government's word for it, and in this connection we will prepare a legislative amendment so that an illegal landfill can be eliminated, and we are very confident that the government will modify that this common goal, the elimination of illegal landfills and the elimination of illegal landfills, can be achieved. I very much hope, Mr President, that we can act together in the interests of the people in Baranya County, and that this outrageous measure, which has been ordered by the Ministry of Innovation, can be withdrawn, and that the 34 rail sidelines will not only get their original timetables back, but will receive a substantive timetable and development resources that can really contribute to the population-reserving power of the countryside. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-16-78	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, submitted a two-minute comment.
u2020-06-16-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd just like to say this very briefly. László Varju did not understand what Erik Bánki, the Secretary of State, or even my colleague Attila Barcza, said: we are talking about the investment of 210 small and medium-sized enterprises. It was your time to serve it, and it was only in the interest of the multinationals. It is an investment of 210 small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. If DK thinks it doesn't have to be supported, they have a soul on it. We believe that creating jobs and supporting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are important. [[14.30]] I would say to Mr Crusades that it is the constitutional right of every Member to submit an individual representative's motion. You guys take advantage of that opportunity. Don't get rid of the fact that Erik Banki or any of us have that right. And don't criticize the fact that if a congressman submits, and you think it's a forward-looking proposal to the National Assembly. You regularly make such proposals in the form of a motion from individual representatives. Let us also have this right, equally elected Members. And the fact that László Varju and DK remember everything about Tokaj, we can't help it, it's just like that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes for two minutes.
u2020-06-16-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe I've misunderstood. I would prefer that the government submit such a proposal in relation to a proposal from individual representatives. But in this case, we agree that if an individual Member has submitted such a measure, which is an important measure, we will support it. We've only drawn attention to the problems of negotiation. However, I would also like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that yesterday, as an individual Member, I presented a proposal for a resolution on precisely these climate protection objectives, namely the rescue and implementation of green transport. This is precisely aimed at asking the Government to withdraw this outrageous measure, the fake timetable for the death of 34 railway lines, and to launch meaningful improvements throughout the Hungarian transport system, to develop the regional sidelines, to provide development resources, and to create a regulatory environment where these regional railway lines can function properly with suitable timetables to satisfy and serve the people in the assisted area. I very much hope that my fellow Members, my fellow Member Bánki and Member Nacsa will support this proposal, and they will also contribute to the very, very fast withdrawal by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology of this shameful, unprofessional and otherwise slavish follow-up to the spirit of the Gyurcsány, Bajnai eras. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-16-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, DK.
u2020-06-16-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Mr. Speaker! As a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, such information is available. I have a small feeling that with this bill we want to create a market for an investment in solar cells that is now being built in Hungary. In Kecskemét, there is an investment in solar cells of 16,5 billion, which has more quality than Chinese technology, at least the CEO said so in public television. It's a solar cell manufacturer that consists of 98 percent less weight than we deliver from China. It can make a bus, truck, passenger car, taxi-operated solar panel. In person, such an interview took place in the presence of Minister Szijjártó, who was just here as rapporteur, where he said that this enormous capacity will increase the range to multiple times, and that production will be in working order by the end of the year. Let's be clear: is this because of the Chinese? Or the Hungarian government will contribute to this market, so this is a supported investment in Kecskemét, which will also create 140 new jobs. So we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, or this Swiss-Indian joint venture's huge big investment in this particular order, on which it has been said that there are many contract applicants who have already won and cannot meet the deadline. It is possible that there is nothing more than the fact that we want to incorporate the new, modern product and not the Chinese product here. I'm afraid that's true. By the way, for comments on DK: the Democratic Coalition is also in favour of carbon neutrality and climate neutrality, and we support everything that is related to this technology and green expectation. It is rather the suspicion of urgency that László Varju mentioned this, and this Flisom company is building hard. The author almost went around how we are now on the global solar market and what the solar panel means, but he didn't even mention that such a huge capacity is being built in Hungary. That capacity needs a buyer. If that capacity needs to be postponed now, because it has been agreed in the meantime, and it is being built relatively quickly, and it is also so powerful technology that it knows far more than the Chinese, then I also say that Chinese does not need to be installed, and it is close here, because it is produced in Hungary. But then we must honestly say that this is something else, gentlemen, in the meantime a better supplier has arrived, a friend with whom we have even more friendly relations, and we want cooperation with Switzerland. If that is not the case, then either the nationalist or the secretary of state will put me in order in this case. By the way, the cost of solar energy for 1 kilowatts is falling enormously, and I believe that today it is no longer a problem to store it, especially with local local storage. So the Democratic Coalition has no problem with that. He has a problem with the fact that this case came before us in such a coup, even though it is known from the media that such a huge investment is taking place in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-16-84	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. Mr Péter Kaderják, Minister of State, I hereby give the floor.
u2020-06-16-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I only applied because there have been some questions or comments about the government's work on this issue, and I just want to respond to them, at least to which I can respond. Tibor Nunkovics said that there is a kind of centralisation in the area of solar investments and that it would be more beneficial to support smaller solar power systems, small domestic-sized power plants. Let me draw attention to the fact that, at present, we encourage essentially all consumer groups from the government's side to use solar systems, including households. It has already been said here that this may be a less visible form of support, but net accounting for small power plants of household size ensures the regulation of households today, which means that if a person produces as much as he consumes with such a system in a year, he has a zero-forint electricity bill, so basically he saves system charges. This is comparable to providing explicit support in the form of a higher take-over price for electricity produced in this way, such as the previous aid schemes used for larger power plants. It's an essential element. The second is that the Development Bank provides a zero percent loan to the population for the installation of this type of system, and, fortunately, the growth here is very dynamic, too. But what we see today is that about one third of built-in capacity is in the form of HMK, and about two thirds of it is a positive ratio for larger solar panels. We also support small and medium-sized enterprises in the form of investment aid from GINOP programmes. In order to partially replace own consumption, this type of investment aid was taken by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises with more than HUF 20 billion in the last year's programme, and the desire to obtain support did not even calm down during the crisis. [[14.40]] So what we see is that small, medium and industrial-sized solar projects also have a well-functioning support, and together they result in this dynamic growth in Hungary. Moreover, we are now working on the legislative possibility of creating a system of so-called energy communities, which means that those who use this energy locally will be given greater freedom of organisation and investment. So, in the future, this system may even expand, if at any level it is reassuring to suggest it to you. There are several things that have been said here that the government is doing things that are good for someone, so it's as if we should be investigating who's good for them. Well, we're working to make it good. So if we were to work on making it bad, then I think it would be weird on the part of a government, so naturally we hope we can always identify who's gonna be good at doing something, because we want someone to be good, so that's where prosperity comes from. You don't always have to suspect that if it's good for someone, because if it's good for my neighbor, it's not good for me; we think it's good for our neighbor, too, if it's good for what's happening, even if it's not good for us. There are some comments to Mr Crusades' questions: greenfield, rooftop, brownfield we agree with this. Obviously, the important thing is that we can exploit the potential of brownfield development as soon as possible and to the greatest extent possible. We're still working on a government site to compile a complete brown field list, and we're planning to organize separate METAR tenders or tender circles specifically for brownfield development. This may also increase the cost of projects, as they may be further away from network connections, so there are disadvantages, but we can certainly see the benefit of this. The question of teleheat greening and the application for a program for the heat of the home will be asked once more to clarify this, because I do not see it exactly. It's a very popular program, by the way, and I'm sorry if something's not working here. By the way, the first round has ended in this, if we are thinking about the same programme, we are working on the next opening, and I think that there is an opportunity to put this issue in its place. Karolina Mine: We have actually talked a lot about the Karolina case. What I would like to say here is that you are asking the Mayor of Pécs in the first round, Congressman, because he has been the CEO of the company who privatized the power plant in Pécs for a long time and who has taken over a significant part of the Karolina regeneration. There's an agreement between the government and Pannon-Hő, based on which the Pannon-Hő will perform the recultivation during this period. If you do this the way you do it, and it does cause this kind of dust pollution, you have to make sure that it doesn't happen on the spot; it's not the government's job. So the first way to the mayor is why they didn't start, why they didn't do it in time, and those who do it now are his successors, why do they do it the way they do it. The government will enter this case, and it will take over this matter, and we will plan it at the end of 2023 as long as Pannon-Hő is working on it, but here is a supporting agreement where we shared this work. I would also like to point out that, since it is a really important landscape wound in Hungary, we are also looking at the possibility of using an innovative project, including renewable energy, to recultivate in a different form in the next EU budget period. As far as I know, the university of Pécs and others have been working together before, and they should be taken out. I have also spoken to the Minister about this, and Minister Palkovic would also support the reclamation of the area in a more innovative way, if possible, because it is not an innovative solution to bring millions of cubic metres of land back to where we had taken it from earlier. At the very end, I'd say to Congressman Hajdu, let me respond to the conspiracy theory. This is a strange thing when you always have to come up with something behind a very simple proposal. Let me confirm that we are really talking about projects that received the green light about 2 or 2.5 or 3 years ago that they could start with project development and ran into the fact that the epidemic hit towards the end of the project and did not get access to the means to complete it. So it is not even a question of whether the Swiss or I don't know what kind of investment someone would like to launch, although, of course, if this project were to start, it would be very good that they could serve the Hungarian market in part and, in addition, carry out significant exports. We hope that this will take place later, but that in this case, this legislative amendment proposal would like to create some kind of market for this company how should I put it? It doesn't hold up. The story is much simpler than that: it is exactly what we talked about in the presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-16-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes for two minutes.
u2020-06-16-87	Thank you for your answers, Mr. Secretary of State. Then I will take the opportunity to show, through consultation, why apartments in Pécs and in many other places, heated with biomass-based remote cooling, because here is a law that does not allow... There is zero multiplication in terms of emission reduction, it is a bad legislative environment, I think that this should be changed, but I think that this is a government power. In this case, I'll be looking for the Secretary of State. With regard to Karolina, I would like to point out that the former mayor of Fidesz said that he does not have any information about what the government plans or plans to do. There was a public hearing a few years ago, where the Secretary of State of Aradsk was still a secretary of state, and compared to that, the deadlines in which 2022 this recultivation are constantly being pushed out. I can tell you that the Pannon Thermal Power Plant is now a partner in a way that at least communicates with us and tries to answer questions. I would ask the Secretary of State to look at what kind of questions I have submitted to Minister Palkovic and to answer those questions in substance. So if the Minister or the Minister of State Kaderjak, on his behalf, were to give meaningful answers about the environmental risks that the population is experiencing there, I think it would be a huge step to reduce this risk and move towards remedying the problems. Thank you.
u2020-06-16-88	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Bánki Erik, Fidesz, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2020-06-16-89	That's right, Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would, of course, like to respond to what has been said in this debate. First of all, I would like to thank the factions, fellow Members, who support the proposed bill, primarily the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, but I would also like to thank my fellow Member Nunkovics for his positive attitude, and also Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Mr Group leader, for the support of this initiative. I am also pleased that opposition parties are finally considering what the purpose of a bill is and what its consequences will be. Indeed, as the Secretary of State has confirmed, 210 investments are primarily owned by small or medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. I have also given an answer to the question raised by the DK representative; both László Varju and László Hajdu are looking for the underlying background, looking for what interest groups we wish to favour. I must sadden you, fellow Members, that we do not wish to favour any interest groups. We wish to favour domestic investors, the 210 projects that started with this investment, which was confirmed by the Secretary of State 2-3 years ago, and on the way through with the preparations, there was a final destination for the completion, and the corona virus epidemic came up, and these investments could not be completed by deadline. I would like to return to Mr László Szakács's argument on the contradiction, which brought to our attention the issue of single-use plastics, which is not a subject of this bill, but it is obviously also known by the Member, although he has not mentioned this, that since then the new proposal has been made before Parliament, which contains, in essence, a time-limit amendment only in relation to the previous proposal. [[14.50]] So Parliament is beyond the general debate on the draft legislation on banning the use of disposable plastics. All that has happened is that, due to sectoral negotiations, a clarification has been made, and I think it is correct, and so, instead of 1 January 2021, the legislation will be introduced from 1 July 2021, which I think, although it means a six-month delay, on the other hand, it will give the industry an opportunity to prepare for these substances to be released and to use new substitutes. I don't see any problem with that. I do not see any problem either, but this has been clarified since then, and what Mr. Head of the Cross has suggested is why he was here in the context of an individual motion. The fact is that, in order for this final vote to take place on 3 July, it was also necessary not only to discuss it as an individual motion but also as an urgent negotiation before the House. I fully agree with myself, as Mr Secretary of State has agreed, that we are trying to examine the possibility of making as many brownfield projects as possible in relation to solar parks. I am very pleased that the government is working on this list, and I think that this should be supported, even if this is a one-off higher cost in the investment, it will be necessary to reach the points of accession at a greater distance, but I think that we will be able to exempt landscape wounds and areas that destroy built environments with this investment or with these investments, which will definitely be an example in the long term. I very much hope that we will be able to find European Union funds, which will support and help these businesses. What I can tell you, Member, is that I agree with the Government's efforts to coordinate rail transport and passenger transport. It should have been done a long time ago, I note, because the fact that there are buses and rail transport on the same line, I think this duality is completely unnecessary. It needs to be looked at which is more rational from an economic point of view, and which makes it possible for people to move faster. As far as I know, the government is working on it, and I hope we can find the right solution. In fact, I hope that since I think it is a very right decision that from 2022 only electric buses can be used in public transport. I very much hope that by the time the developers get to the point where electric buses can be used at such stages, for example, it would mean that operating costs would be reduced and, where appropriate, more dense flights could be used to solve transport between municipalities. I think that I have responded to the suggestion of all my fellow Members. Yes, I am sorry, even Mr László Hajdu: I do not understand this example of Kecskemét, how this came to be here. The proposal has nothing to do with the investment in Kecskemét. If that would reassure you, Mr President, I would also like to confirm this here in plenary. I would continue to ask my fellow Members, the MSZP and the Democratic Coalition to reconsider their position, since there is a bill before the House that serves to protect domestic investors, to help them to complete the process that has started. Overall, it could represent a significant step forward for Hungary in the field of renewable energy use. There's no bone in this, believe me. I would very much like it to be revalued and that all parties will be able to support it in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-06-16-90	Thank you very much, Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the general debate was concluded. Dear Parliament, It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10990. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that, in line with our agreed agenda, we have the opportunity to submit amendments until the general debate is over. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bóka, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-06-16-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal before this House aims to make bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings more effective and, to that end, to amend XLIX 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Law. The proposal changes the rules of bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings with three objectives. On the one hand, it makes it easier to conclude the procedure with an agreement; on the other hand, it also simplifies contacts between the parties to the proceedings and includes provisions for the protection of the economy. As regards bankruptcy proceedings, it is experience that the debtor has little time to come up with a proposal for a settlement and there is a high risk that negotiations with creditors will be concluded without agreement. In order to have a realistic opportunity to conclude a bankruptcy agreement, the proposal contains several important amendments. The period of the moratorium in bankruptcy varies from 120 days to 180 days. In addition, the debtor's proposal for a settlement will be 90 days instead of the current 60 days under the bill. It is an important change that the debtor is entitled to continue the negotiation and recast the proposal as long as a creditor representing at least a quarter of the votes of creditors in the secured and uninsured creditors class supports the proposed settlement. However, if the proposal for a settlement is not supported by a creditor representing one quarter of the creditors' votes in the negotiations, the hearing shall be closed and the bankruptcy proceedings terminated. The proposal also takes into account the interests of creditors, since the debtor can only continue negotiations as long as it ensures that the compromise proposal is recast according to the creditors' expectations. The proposal also facilitates the negotiation between the debtor and creditors in winding-up proceedings. Under the proposed rules, the holders of pledges must continue to support the settlement by qualified majority, i.e. by two thirds. However, in other creditor classes it will be sufficient to obtain a majority of the creditors' votes. Dear House, The global health pandemic caused by the coronal virus has serious economic consequences. The government is committed to mitigating these economic impacts. In the framework of the economic protection action plan, a number of measures have been taken to reduce the burden on entrepreneurs and to support their economic activity. We have made it clear that the government will take the necessary steps to protect the Hungarian economy and its players, including Hungarian businesses. Responsible thinking, however, should also be taken into account for the possibility that, despite these measures, businesses in sectors that are priority for the national economy could be wound up in the future. In the course of the sale of assets by strategically important entities in liquidation proceedings, the State is therefore entitled to the right of pre-emption on the basis of the proposal. The aim of the provision is to ensure that economic protection efforts do not become useless. The aim is to maintain, as far as possible, the assets and assets that are economically operational and which are necessary for the performance of public tasks and to be sold by applying the basic security aspects. Economic protection and security of public supply considerations also add to the range of strategically important entities that have special different rules in liquidation. It is also an economic protection clause in the proposal that empowers the government to establish specific rules for the reorganisation of businesses in a regulation. The main objective is to provide businesses with, in addition to bankruptcy, other predictable legal solutions to overcome operational difficulties. This new type of reorganisation would be set up as a procedure in accordance with simpler rules independent of insolvency proceedings. It will also be true in this proceeding that the negotiations between the debtor and the creditor are aimed at adopting an agreement to ensure the continued operation of the debtor, to overcome its liquidity difficulties and to prevent winding-up proceedings. [[15.00]] In view of the economic risks posed by the coronal virus pandemic, it is appropriate to regulate the reorganisation procedure at government level. This provides a sufficiently rapid and flexible transitional framework to prevent undertakings in liquidity difficulties from being subject to a mass winding-up procedure. Dear Parliament, In order to reduce the administrative burden on the parties in bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings, the bankruptcy law is supplemented by the rules of electronic contact between the administrator and the winding-up commissioner and the persons involved in the proceedings on the creditors' side. The proposal gives them the opportunity to communicate with each other through electronic correspondence and to send documents to each other. The proposal therefore sets out the necessary formal elements. The proposal also modernises and simplifies communication in winding-up procedures. It allows creditors to cast their votes in writing at the invitation of the court instead of holding a court settlement hearing. In the future, the creditor may request to attend a meeting of creditors by electronic means rather than by means of a personal presence. The meeting of creditors through the video conference allows the meeting to be held without personal contact, thus avoiding additional costs arising from the organisation of the location of the creditors' meeting and the travel. Dear House, Finally, it should also be mentioned that the proposal removes two deadlines from the regulation of proceedings relating to winding-up proceedings. In winding up proceedings, one of the important guarantees is that the liquidator or creditors can claim in court assets unlawfully removed from bankruptcy assets. A subjective period of 120 days from the date of acquisition of knowledge and an objective limitation period of one year from the start of liquidation apply today to the initiation of this trial. Based on practical experience, the subjective deadline of 120 days is limited, because fact-finding, the acquisition of evidence, may take longer. In view of this, the proposal only sets an objective limitation period for bringing an action and abolishes the subjective time limit. The other deadline, which will be terminated, concerns infringement proceedings against the debtor's senior officials. The court may determine in court the liability of the managing officer for creditors' claims which cannot be satisfied of the debtor's assets. In accordance with the provisions in force, creditors have a period of 90 days following the publication in the public notice of the final winding-up proceedings following that finding. Since the liability has already been established by the court in such cases, it is unnecessary to set a short limitation period following the initiation of the stay proceedings. Therefore, the 90-day rule would be repealed and the stay proceedings could be opened within a limitation period in the future. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill on the basis of the regulatory objectives described. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-06-16-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome the number of Members who have been reduced, and we will continue the debate. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Károly Becsó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us is XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. contains amendments to the Act. The aim of the draft law is to modernise the procedural rules of insolvency law and to facilitate the settlement of disputes between debtors and creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, to facilitate the retention of jobs in bankruptcy and to introduce legal solutions that promote the reorganisation of businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to speed up the procedure, simplify the procedure and reduce the administrative burden on the parties, the bankruptcy law is supplemented by the rules on electronic correspondence between creditors, on the one hand, and between the parties to the proceedings and the administrator and the liquidation commissioner on the other. The proposal also specifies that the legal declaration, document and information documents sent to the e-mail address must comply with the formalities provided for in the Pp. and the Law on Lawyer Activities. The reason for the clarification concerning the arrangements for negotiating the terms and conditions of the arrangement is that the debtor is not interested in the length of the arrangement negotiations and that it is necessary to ensure that the settlement proposal is recast according to the creditors' expectations. Under the proposed amendment, the debtor may revise the settlement proposal even if the creditors do not support it to the extent necessary. Moreover, the debtor is not entitled to recast the proposal for a settlement unless it is voted out by a qualified majority of creditors. With a view to modernising and simplifying the winding-up procedure, it should be pointed out that the liquidator should conduct creditors' meetings either without a personal presence, after the participants have been identified, with technical solutions enabling image and voice transmission. These options will significantly speed up the real-time relationship between the insolvency commissioner and creditors, which will avoid costs related to the organisation and travel of creditors' meetings, as Mr Secretary of State has said. I consider bankruptcy law 40 to be a step forward. In this respect, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the measure in question constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and therefore constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In particular, taking into account the situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, there were also objective obstacles to the collection of documents and evidence that could be obtained only over a longer period of time to effectively challenge these legal transactions. Therefore, the proposal submitted only provides for an objective limitation period for bringing an action and the subjective deadline is terminated. What I would also like to point out is that the court may decide not to hold a settlement hearing and put the proposal for a settlement to the creditors to a written vote if the debtor has not asked for the settlement to be held. Dear House, For entities of strategic importance, the proposal seeks to grant the State the right of pre-emption when selling the debtor's assets. In such cases, the State will exercise the right of pre-emption by means of an organisation designated in the Government Decree. I would like to stress that the Government, on the basis of the mandate given by this Act, can lay down in a regulation specific rules governing the reorganisation, maintenance and recovery of business organisations and the settlement of their debts. Dear Parliament, I do not wish to add any more, the Secretary of State explained in detail the main objectives of the proposal in his exposé. In addition to what I have said, a number of text-exchange amendments are envisaged in the draft law, all aimed at facilitating the conduct of the procedure. I believe that the proposal before us, by incorporating practical experience, is an excellent way to modernise the rules on insolvency proceedings, to make the procedure itself more effective, to facilitate the conclusion of an agreement between the debtor and creditors, and to reorganise businesses. In view of what has been said, the tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-16-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We too, when we saw this proposal, and I went on a little bit where I had finished earlier, that, in truth, we, the governing parties, had much more experience than we had left, so we were looking for the situations that we were trying to create or solve. And this isn't usually the first bill to try to put the October municipal elections in parentheses at some level. In the future, I will discuss how this is true in this case. [[15.10]] There are things that we see differently than the Secretary of State, that it will be easier for the debtor to defend himself. In our view, we see that it will be easier, by the way, to set up or assemble a blocking minority in a creditor's selection than how much easier it will be for the debtor to represent his own interests in these matters. The presence or voting by electronic means is undoubtedly part of Article XXI. It is easier to create in the first century, and it is possible to do so with the fact that many times it is not able to make up for personal presence. Here, in each case, it is necessary to examine when a person can make a declaration with his or her electronic reply or with his or her electronic mail about the degree to which the accuracy of the answer or the accuracy of the question asked determines itself. I am obviously referring here to the fact that in many places where we are talking about situations that could now only be resolved by electronic means, one has often encountered the fact that they have indeed turned material issues into formal legal issues, and then this will mislead the debate later on. I don't know if it's gonna make it any easier, I'm sure it's more modern, but I can't tell you right away if it's gonna be easier. I think these are the things that come to mind at first until you see how the government expands space for itself. Obviously, listening to the pro-government speakers, of course, only with the intention of improving, this is what the government is trying to do, and, of course, the government is also trying to make the daily lives of the public service companies that have accumulated debts much better and more beautiful. They're on the verge of being able to pay. The reasons should be eliminated, Mr State Secretary, not the coronal virus, but the reasons why a public service provider can get to the limits of its solvency, or even beyond that, and become insolvent. The reasons why your debt is strategically important here, I will open a parentheses here, and then later you will expand what is strategically important, or at least for public purposes, so to speak, how you keep them moving. Basically, the goal can be agreed: do not spread this wealth. You can totally agree with that. I would add that generally those who carry the wealth are generally referred to as entrepreneurs close to your party, but we are fundamentally in agreement. But if we look at the reasons that lead to these companies reaching the limit of their solvency, I'm sorry. They will go beyond that, they will be insolvent, they will be insolvent, or they will be in liquidation proceedings, then we will have to look at the reasons that led to them, and we will see among them such as the utility tax. Indeed, the majority of municipal companies were able to pay the utility tax on loans. I think we have drawn attention to this fact, mostly four years ago, five years ago, that this is a hundred billion-dollar item, which you know in public utility companies, Mr. State Secretary, public-interest companies that provide public service debts. This was not helped by the reduction of the rent, as it limited the revenues of these companies. Some have received compensation, some have not received compensation, one thing was certain, the government denied that the reduction of the rent should have paid its compensation to the utility companies at any time, but in return they were taxed, and that was a hundred billion-dollar story at the time. Now, this, for example, could lead to the failure of a utility company to pay properly, to the limit of insolvency, sir! He'll get over it. This reason should also be removed, not the reduction in overhead costs, the utility tax. We could eliminate the utility tax, make these revenues from somewhere else, sir. Take back the expenses, take back the spending. That would be the first reason. The second is such a reason, and in general both, how to say, focus on Budapest, obviously the most sensitive political loss for the government side, because there are two large companies, one for waste management and the other for public transport, which was also a sensitive loss for your economic moonyard. We may have reason to fear that you may be able to produce that condition, in addition to overtaxing these companies and limiting their revenues by law, you may otherwise be able to create a state of solvency for a public service company, sire. bankruptcy, bankruptcy or winding up proceedings against him. For example, what is current news in Budapest is that the government does not want to give the support it had given earlier. Well, that's gonna get you into insolvency, by the way. Well, we've seen, we've heard, the BKK's blackout at the time of the coronal virus outbreak. We would like to add quietly that the question of free parking was, of course, involved in this. If you don't have to pay for parking, people would rather use their cars than get on a bus. But what I'm saying is that it's one of those opinions where we say that he might be sitting alone in the car, that there's definitely more people on the bus, that it's harder to catch the infection, and that's the rule of defense. Well, Mr. Secretary, that's what they do when they get back. If someone's income has fallen out of defense, it's usually replaced, and now we see there's a debate on this. So the government doesn't run to help this company, it waits for this company to go bankrupt. There's the other one, the waste disposal. This is such a good way for you to do this, I cannot say that you've done well in the past. If I remember correctly, János Lázár was the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office when he wanted to be centralized, and they created this large waste management company in the common language called Kukaholding, which, if I remember correctly, failed to issue an invoice during the first year and a half of its operation, even though small city companies were owned by local government companies that had to carry out this task. I'm sure your holding company had both a headquarters and a CEO, but it didn't have a single garbage truck, so the task was outsourced, supplied to the municipalities, and then this company didn't pay for the service that the municipal companies provided. You know why? Because, Minister of State, it took a year, if not longer, to carry out the procurement procedure, the winner of which could obtain a contract to print out the cheques that the kukhading sent to the residents, who had used waste management as a mandatory service, because this is a mandatory service, but we residents could not pay for it, because kukhading did not send a check. Let us also remember this solution: everyone received six months' cheques. This was also infinitely welcomed by the population. But at this moment, we are talking about the fact that there is a large state company that should finance local government companies for the task being performed, which will not do so. So the state company doesn't pay off municipal companies. And here comes the part of this amendment that is most controversial on our side. Well, how do you manage that? In order to ensure that these companies can be absorbed in the way they want to be, the so-called reorganisation plan can be drawn up by the government even by regulation in order to maintain their functionality. [[15.20]] You will create the situation so that it belongs and whoever you want will go bankrupt, and then you will reorganize it in the way you want it to, and this will give the government access to public services and pull it away from the municipalities. Schools, health institutions, a little after the centralization of the waterworks, after the closure of the small waterworks, now comes the other public services, public transport comes, waste transport comes. In any fail-safe way, but the important thing is that your hands are on this, and if necessary, these situations can be created. We see in this that, unfortunately, this is not going towards the solution, not the maintenance of solvency, the preservation of wealth. By the way, Mr Secretary of State, I say in a soft way that the maintenance of the service was not mentioned; at the very least, these amendments are not made in order to maintain the continuity of the service, but, from this point of view, this seems to be happening in order to make this situation possible as soon as possible. And we see on the news that the BKK no longer receives a central source, even though they told us how much money was lost every day, billions, billions every month, they must have fallen out of BKK's revenues. Last week's news is that by Monday, the Dukahading will be able to zero the bill for the D.C.'s waste management, and the truth is, our experience with you is that if you can do it, you can do it. We will therefore not support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-16-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-97	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. T/10990. The legislative proposal No 1 contains the most urgent changes to corporate insolvency proceedings in order to achieve the economic policy and legal policy objectives of reorganisation. To this end, the bill intervenes at some strategic points in bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings with a view to simplifying the rule of contact and substantially increasing the number of settlements, as well as to achieving an exemption from the excessive time limit in the so-called bail-out proceedings and the breach of liability of senior officials. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of what Mr János Bóka has already said in his exposé, as well as what my fellow Member, Mr Károly Becsó, has already said in his speech, I would just like to highlight the following from the bill. The clear economic policy objective of the bill is to provide a more flexible procedural framework for the government to develop rescue solutions and coordinate government measures in this regard. Therefore, the bill empowers the government to establish specific rules for the reorganisation, maintenance or restoration of the functioning of economic entities and the settlement of their debts. In the liquidation of strategically important entities, the bill creates a state pre-emption right in the sale of the debtor's assets. The economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic will obviously be present in the Hungarian economy, in Europe's economy and in the world's economy for a longer period of time. Thus, in a responsible way, if we think about it, we have to assume that in the next period, although there is an economic protection action plan, a company with an important economic role or an entity that owns a significant infrastructure may still be wound up. With this provision, we want to ensure that foreign investors and investment groups do not gain control in any area of the Hungarian economy, taking advantage of the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic. A good instrument for this patriot economic policy is the creation of a state pre-emptive right. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of KDNP supports T/10990. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-16-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-99	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, I see that, in relation to the previous agenda, or in the same way, the pro-government Members can accuse me of seeing their steps towards modernising insolvency proceedings, but I am still looking for the reason why this has come before us now and needs to be examined or changed. I understand that the economic circumstances of the epidemic itself, that, I might say, the government, like a bite of bread, came here in some cases, and this situation also suggests that they want to intervene or intervene in the economy, essentially with the power of the state, by expanding it, by strengthening it. If, by itself, utility service providers and the strategic companies we consider to be... I am in a debate with Mr Cook that you are making a strong move towards a solution, this is not only a intention or a vision, but also going in the direction if anyone had the courage, then he would also list which companies, after the entry into force of the law, are coming to this fate and want to intervene. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State that the company producing packaging in Debrecen, which was immediately occupied at the beginning of the epidemic threat, and, let us say, has been taken into war care, puts this company in this category, and what is the real reason for its action to express the interests of the Hungarian State. But the circle may be much wider, and if you have the opportunity, please respond to this, because basically we have to start from the fact that some elements of the bill here... to modernise the rules of the legal procedure, to facilitate the negotiation between the debtor and creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, to facilitate the negotiation between the debtor and creditors, to speed up and simplify the procedure. But in your operation, it is always remembered that this is a very specific circle, and, as your party president says, it was brought here to create that national bourgeoisie, which is what I think of this law. I must therefore say that, on the part of the Democratic Coalition, we strongly reject this bill. We cannot accept this, and I do not recommend that you do so, even because this intention in itself, as I have said, is, in fact, by the creative power of thought or by concrete steps, but essentially creates the possibility or the possibility that, yes, government decisions will be made, that the circle of stakeholders, if they find themselves in difficulty, will then be implemented with this means of nationalization and thus contribute to this. [[15.30]] It doesn't take much effort to bankrupt businesses, bankrupt them with the power of the state, they can do that. Then we may say, for example, that the aforementioned company in Debrecen has a well-farmed, functioning, efficient management that works more effectively, if, meanwhile, they want to conduct the debate between owners with other means or even with incorrect means. But we have seen other things like this, we have seen what happened on the part of private companies, we have seen the processes in the field of fertilizer, what the state is capable of, whether indirectly or directly with the intervention. On this basis, I then think that the T/10990. The Democratic Coalition does not want to contribute to this bill, and we do not want to support it. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-06-16-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr János Bóka, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. János Fóka: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. His time frame is 30 minutes.
u2020-06-16-101	Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, Thank you for the support of the governing parties on the bill that has been tabled. I see that there are some areas where there is an identity of views between the ruling parties and the opposition parties. As I understand it, we are all in favour of speeding up and simplifying insolvency proceedings and the future preinsolvency procedure. I believe, on the basis of what has been said, that the introduction of electronic procedural options is supported by all of you, although I also thought that I could hear some objections from opposition speakers. As I understand it, you have no objection to keeping the assets of an economic unit together in insolvency proceedings, because this is the only way to ensure continuity of the service. The specific objection raised by Mr Cook in his speech is that it will be easier to maintain a blocking minority in insolvency proceedings on the creditor side, and I do not actually agree with that. The examination of the text of the bill will reveal the shortcomings of this position. If I understand the opposition's speech correctly, they basically attribute the ulterior intentions of creating the insolvency of public utility companies to the bill, and I think it is possible to use the strong expression that the bill is intended to bankrupt the public utility companies of the opposition-led municipalities. This is an interesting point in the negotiation of a bill that intends to authorise the government to introduce a pre-insolvency procedure by means of a regulation. The very point of the pre-insolvency procedure is to provide a reorganisation option before the insolvency occurs, in particular, in order to prevent the economic operator from going into insolvency proceedings. This bill would extend the duration of the moratorium in bankruptcy, which would simplify, make the rules for the development of the proposal for a settlement flexible, all in the direction of avoiding the liquidation of an economic operator before insolvency or bankruptcy. By accusing the government of trying to bring about the insolvency of public utility companies or bankrupt public utility companies with such a bill, this shows a complete lack of knowledge of the proposal. Also to accuse the government of preventing the continuation of the service of municipal utility companies by this bill, while this proposal allows the State, by exercising the right to pre-empt the mass of assets representing the single economic unit, to hold it in an economic unit capable of maintaining the continuity of the service, to show a complete misunderstanding of the bill. I will then ask myself, just like the opposition representatives, what conspiracy theories can be produced on the basis of opposition speeches. I think it is quite believable that the conspiracy theory is that opposition representatives themselves do not trust that the opposition-led municipalities are able to manage their assets responsibly and to ensure that their supply obligations are met, and they are already making this bill a scapegoat because opposition-led municipalities will not be able to do so. However, I must give you the bad news that, by rejecting this bill, you will be the very ones who would also deprive opposition authorities of the possibilities of reorganisation that are not yet available. You will be asked to take account of this position, not only of government parties and voters, but also of their own self-governments. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-16-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the general debate was concluded. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to MEP László Varju, representing DK: Remodeling of the apartment starts with the title Újpesten. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Even in recent times, I have had the opportunity to use these periods to report how, even in difficult circumstances, the management of a municipality, the activity of a municipality, can contribute to the common good. This is a really exciting moment in time, because as a result of the processes that have taken place over the last year, despite the political change in the municipalities, I would like to report on a project that has been prepared previously and is being implemented in the right direction in this period. This is a city rehabilitation program that offers the opportunity to build more apartments in the new residential building, built at 25 Károlyi István Street, which is essentially new in Újpesten, and to build real apartments there, to create spaces for community building and development activities that serve residents there. I think that this will make a significant contribution to the development of the community and to providing an important service for Újpest in this form. I think that this environment, this situation, can make a significant contribution to the development of Újpest. This is also important because, at the same time, housing units, with the construction of apartments, can also be renovated. This is perhaps one of the most important messages I have to say today that it is vitally important for municipalities and the general public to have access to a rental apartment at market prices and with some social support provided by the municipality for those in need. [[15.40]] The economic processes of the past years make it almost impossible for young people to get a new apartment, start their lives and become independent because we all know that the rental of an apartment is today around 150 thousand forints in a non-downtown environment. Because of this value, it is virtually impossible for beginners to spend so much of their salary on housing alone. Therefore, there is a great need for more opportunities and ways to build additional housing for those caring municipalities who are able to do so. Here, in connection with the concrete example, which is built at 25 Károlyi István Street in Újpesten, at the same time, together with this construction, a very degraded segment will be eliminated and the former residents can therefore also be put into a new residential environment. Thus, these newly built apartments, as I have said, will be owned primarily on a social basis by customers, tenants and will act accordingly, who are currently in contact with the Municipality of Újpest. The circumstances of the move are also strictly regulated by the call for proposals, which is why during the implementation of the project, the area in Újpesten, the inhabitants of the residential block, which is bordered by Bocskai-Temesvári-Berda József utca, will be located in municipal homes in other parts of the district, thus their life and quality of life will also vary significantly. That is why I think it is important, which is why I started by saying that the local government elected in October here will further develop a thought, carry out an important urban development task and perform it. I trust that there will continue to be an opportunity, with a substantial increase in size, to allow local governments to build apartments. That's what I wanted to draw your attention to. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-16-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of the 135" of the Újpest Gymnastics Association. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-16-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, The Újpest Gymnastics Association, one of Hungary's most patinistic sports associations, celebrates its 135th anniversary on 16 June. UTE was founded as the second sports club in the country and has been operating continuously ever since, and today it is the oldest Hungarian sports association in the history of law. And not only is UTE the oldest association, but it has also become Hungary's most successful sports club in the past.1885. On 16 June, some enthusiastic young people declared the establishment of the Újpest Gymnasium in a gymnasium at the Újpest Market Hall. Did these passionate youths then think that 135 years later thousands of purple-white-hearted athletes and fans would prepare for the birthday of our beloved association? Certainly not. But who are these enthusiastic young men of sport? Among the initiators was János Goll of Újpest, the first president of UTE. Among those who worked to create the club were Gyula Ugró, secretary of the first selection of the sports club, who later became the first mayor of the independent city. With them Gyula Győri-Farkas, Róbert Eisner, Sándor Hadl and Dr. István Kolpaszky created the first selection and management. According to the founding letter, the number of members was 78. The Újpest Gymnastics Association is conceived in the spirit of the Újpest and the national cooperation, symbolizing this at the time of its formation. And a password, too. Dear House, UTE takes first place among the Hungarian sports clubs in terms of points and medals won at the Olympic, World and European Championships. UTE has always grown and strengthened, the club has raised many Olympic, world and European champions, and among the national sports legends we count many footballers and athletes who have won glory in the purple and white colours, but also the Hungarian country in the national team. The first tournament team was able to boast of swimming, wrestling and even cycling champions in the 1920s. The departments, currently operating twenty, have spilled their results, and so far there are 51 Olympic medals on the plaque of glory. In terms of the number of Olympic golds, UTE is at the top of the Hungarian ranking, and the eternal rival FTC, for example, is only the fifth. Whether his name was UTE or Doge Újpest, our club has always been driven by the heart. Even in the communist system, when it was renamed Dózsa and transformed into the treasury association of internal affairs, the strength, faith and unbreakability of athletes led the club forward. Glory to the champions! Dear House, In addition to UTE, adult football operates in a separate legal framework as a business. The company has a foreign owner, the team has been weaker in recent years, and the foreign owner has also arbitraryly and unlawfully changed the old coat of arms of the team, thus causing a lack of peace in the UTE family and in the football supply. It is also bad news that the newly elected left-wing city leadership no longer supports the association in any way, and thus the young people who are athletes or who want to play sports in Újpesten. The Újpest Gymnastics Association has developed further over the past three years thanks to significant government support. After decades of lag, UTE's facilities have been renewed, unprecedented investments have been made and implemented in Újpesten. Renewed facilities allow thousands of children, young and adult sports. It is a great pleasure that the government supports the association and treats it as a strategic issue as a major sports association, and considers it as part of the survival and strengthening of the nation. Due to the education of healthy life and the survival of the country, the high-quality sport of national sports, and also important mass sports, UTE deserves greater attention and cooperation in its interests, just as it has been so many times during the 135 years of its existence. I myself, as a member of the UTE presidency, and a parent whose five sons have been in UTE and three are still active in sports in the association today, I would like to thank everyone, athletes, sports leaders, coaches, parents, supporters, supporters, fans who have contributed to the success of UTE over the past 135 years, and thanks to which hundreds of thousands of people cheer on purple-white colors at home, in the Carpathian Basin and in the world. Dr. Gyula Jumpró was not only the founder of UTE, the first mayor of Újpest, but also a poet. Let me finally welcome the UTE with the last line of his 50th anniversary poem. , UTE always bravely, proudly just forward! What else can we do with this? Maybe just go ahead, Újpest. Go, UTE! Go, Purples! Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-16-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 29 June 2020. Thank you, fellow Members, for the work of the minutes, the staff of the hall service and the technical staff, the meeting is closed. Good evening, everyone.
