u2020-11-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the leadership of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Sándor Szabó. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, It is my sad duty again to announce the death of our former colleague, Catherine Corinth. Katalin Corinth, former politician of the MSZP, one of the founding members of his organization in Miskolc, obtained his mandate at the parliamentary elections in 1994 in the 3rd single mandate district of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, and until 1998, he was a Member of the Parliament of the region. Under his mandate, he supported the work of the Committee on Culture and Press. In addition to his political and public activities, he worked as a teacher and journalist and was the founder and manager of many civil society organisations. On several occasions, he was rewarded with a public prize for his volunteer work. He died in 67 years of his life. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room salute the memory of the deceased with a silent standing.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Dialogue, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2020-11-02-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In recent months or weeks Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has made two statements and returned to one of them. His first memorable statement a few months ago was that there was no need to fear the negative impact of the epidemic on jobs, because his government would create the same number of jobs when the epidemic was over as the number of jobs that had ceased. In mid-September, on one occasion, the Prime Minister expressed his view that this commitment had been fulfilled. The other memorable saying to Prime Minister was that the Hungarian health care and the government were prepared to deal with the epidemic, so if anyone catches the virus, we will cure everyone. Well, the sad thing is, none of these claims have been made. Let us start with the data on jobs, the economy. Well, it's not a performance. If you look at the official numbers of the HCSO, at least two methods are used to calculate the number of unemployed, the number of people employed, and if you look at the survey that is based on a questionnaire, there are still about 50,000 more unemployed today than there were a year ago. It should be noted that this methodology produces the most favourable data in terms of the labour market, mainly due to the inaccuracies resulting from the questionnaire survey, for example due to the particularities of Hungarian relations, it also measures the number of people employed in black as well. Therefore, it is worth looking at institutional statistics, which are not based on a survey, but a summary of the exact number of jobs. Of course, this methodology also has a weakness, because of the multitude of data, it takes into account employers of more than five people, whether they are a budgetary institution or an economic enterprise. Well, surveys based on these exact work numbers give an even more dramatic picture. If we look at the latest data available on the website of the KSH and look at the data for a similar period of the previous year, then we should be saddened to note that there are 110,000 fewer people working among Hungarian businesses and institutions with at least five employees than in the previous year. It is no coincidence that there has recently been a small demonstration in front of László Parragh's office, where workers and victims have demanded that the duration of unemployment benefit be extended compared to the government's narrow performance. They have asked that for at least six months, we have demanded for months to restore this time to nine months before the Orbán government, since it takes an average of one and a half years to find a job again based on current statistical data, while only three months of annuity. [[13.10]] Let's look at the other statement that they're healing everyone. Well, that statement didn't work out either, and it's tragically contradicting the Prime Minister's words about statistics. Just the last day, another record number of infected people died in Hungary, resulting in the number of people who died in Hungary. Tragic number! Tragic number, from here on out, I'm expressing my sympathy to all of your deceased family and loved ones. Hungarian data are also very bad in European comparison. Over the past 14 days, more people have died in the Czech Republic and Belgium than in Hungary. However, if you look at the fact that the government did not think the mask was important at all in the spring, it now made it mandatory practically everywhere, what it would do or could do: well, we see that it will certainly not be tested, because in a European comparison, less is tested in Bulgaria, only one country in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To sum up: neither our jobs nor our health are safe under your governance. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-02-2	In response, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2020-11-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to reiterate that when the performance of Hungarian healthcare is attacked, they are actually attacking not the government, but the doctors and nurses who are fighting in the front line. You have said that data are poor in European comparison. Let's look at the facts. If we project the number of deaths to 100,000 inhabitants, then 14 people in Hungary, 58 in Sweden, 67 in the UK, 74 in Spain and 93 in Belgium have died, so this is many times the Hungarian indicator. The fact is that we have been in an extraordinary time for many months, and we listen to your suggestions and criticisms from week to week, but there is a fundamental circumstance that basically puts your proposals in parentheses, and that is that when it comes to actions, when it should have been supported by votes, it was never possible to count on the left. They did not vote in favour of fast-track negotiations on the defence bill, and eventually did not vote in favour of the bill itself at the time of the first wave, instead they even spread false news about Parliament and its closure. We could say good now, good, but that was in the spring. That may be, but we can already see that you are hindering decision-making in the second wave. Last week, for example, there was a vote on quarantine rules and stricter penalties for, among other things, the use of masks, which was not supported. They were here, but they didn't support it. You didn't support, you didn't support the Gyurcsány Party. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: DK!]] He was not supported by the LMP, but neither were the leaders of the MSZP nor the party of Gergely Christmas. Either way, the seasons seem to change, but one thing is constant: the left cannot be expected if there is trouble. Therefore, the government will do everything in its power to ensure swift decision-making. Of course, you have had suggestions, including the re-introduction of digital education, the re-introduction of a special shopping time band or the restriction of the use of public transport. All I would like to ask you about this is that you consulted the stakeholders before this proposal was made, with the organisations of the elderly, or, say, with the parents. Did you do that by consulting them? I'm not even gonna agree to what they submitted, and then they withdrew, and then they filed again. It is difficult to decide, after all, that their twitching or rushing is the greater disadvantage in the fight against the epidemic. As far as economic aspects are concerned, because it also mentioned this, we know that the coronal virus does not spare the economy, so we had to take action early, and the government has also taken action: wage subsidies have been launched, investment grants, preferential credit schemes, a credit moratorium has been put in place, which has been extended and the home creation programme has been extended even more, because even the epidemic period does not change the fact that the most important unit of society is the family. These are also due to the fact that as many people now work in Hungary as in January, that is, in the period before the epidemic. Although the Hungarian economy was strongly sidelined by the virus, the rate of halting remained below the EU average and was well below the Spanish, French or Italian level, where there was a decline of 18-22 percent. Now what you would do or do for the economy shows very well what you are doing or what you are not doing in Budapest tells you everything. We know that Budapest is the richest municipality in the country. We also know that in most places defence expenditures have been increased, but not so in Budapest. It turned out that it was not enough that they were sitting on an amount of more than a hundred billion, and that this amount even increased during the epidemic. So while there are Facebook posts pointing at others and ATV whining interviews, Gergely Christmas doesn't want to spend any money on the troubled sectors or the defense, and he's turning his back not only on the capital but also on the country. Honourable Congressman, To sum up, I would like to say to you that you will not be able to deal with a crisis, either with an epidemic or with economic problems, with three million complaints, by obstructing decisions or by voting. It's time for the country to change that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-4	Now it's time for László Keresztes, leader of the LMP. Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2020-11-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start today by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people with respect to their work. I think it's a duty for all of us to start a parliamentary week. We can see how much trouble there has been in the past. The number of infected has increased by 20,000 in the last week. And how steeply the curve of the epidemic rises: this number is 7,000 more than in the week before. So we can see that there is indeed a huge problem and that the whole country is facing huge challenges, and, of course, we can say that it is, of course, all of Europe. By the way, I do not think, Mr Csaba Dömötör, that, in such a serious situation, such debates are necessary. I reject it, although it is not my place to speak on behalf of the opposition and to defend opposition fellow Members, but I reject the fact that our opposition fellow Members, or even our faction, have ever attacked defence professionals. That's not true. Since you made a reference and you are sitting next to Secretary Balázs Orbán, I suggest we return to what happened exactly a month ago. It can be seen that, in the autumn session, information on the protection of the epidemic is lacking on the part of the members of the government. During the spring period, during the first wave, reports from government members were regular, discussions before the agenda were regular, so I would like to ask questions in principle. One of these issues has a strong connection to how much you count on and how much you rely on the decisions of professionals, the experts you appoint. I'm asking you questions because people are asking me questions. The information is missing, and a lot of people are asking what is happening in the country right now. We can see that, compared to the spring period, there are no thank-you measures compared to those at the time, and that the epidemic has started to rise to a startling extent. People don't really understand what's happening, what the government is based on, what prognosis and what considerations it takes to make different decisions. And speaking of Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, who and in what way doubts the claims of professionals: on 2 October, exactly a month ago, Minister of State Balázs Orbán made a very strong statement to Ferenc Jakab, who is the head of the Crown Virus Action Group of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. The professor said that while the epidemiological measures and the government's decisions were swift and good in March, we do not see this now, and he said that he thought the numbers were very high and extremely worrying. He also said that if such a trend were to run to our deaths as fast trains, our health capacities would be exhausted very quickly, and we do not see it, says Ferenc Jakab, that the epidemic would peak at all, because the numbers are rising. Then he said, Mr Secretary, that there were these kind of alarms about the first wave and that the numbers were stabilizing. Unfortunately, the numbers have not stabilized, and the epidemic has produced quite astonishing results. Unfortunately, the curve of the epidemic is rising in an amazing way. My question is, the government has come to the point where, apart from the fact that the opposition is being dealt with by all kinds of political attacks, the signals of professionals are being accepted. So they channel the signals that professionals often use in the public, as I quoted. And I have further questions. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: You do not support our actions.]] Mr Secretary of State, we voted in favour of the doctors' wage increases. This was obviously an extremely important measure, but you were talking about delays. When will the budgetary implications of this come before the Parliament? When will the amending budget allow this measure to be taken before the Parliament? You are asking opposition representatives to hold consultations. Have you reached the point of involving the Medical Chamber in preparation and consulting them? So, is the Medical Chamber representing the medical community really involved in these fundamental measures that determine the future of all of us? Again, you are talking about us not making any meaningful proposals. This morning was the meeting of the Economic Committee. And, yes, we are consulting, for example, professionals working to maintain the most basic public services, and on this basis we have tabled a proposal once again, but you voted against it without a debate. And there are other proposals; yes, we are also consulting people, for example, we have consulted thousands of people on reducing VAT on basic foods, and thousands of people have supported this proposal. This has also been brought before the Economic Committee today and this proposal has been voted out without a substantive debate. The Chairman of the Economic Committee said that there is a situation where there is no money to take these measures. Well, I'm asking you, isn't one of the most important measures to protect the economy to help families who are in an extremely difficult situation right now? And I would add that the Chairman of the Economic Commission estimated the VAT reduction on basic foods to approximately HUF 170 billion. Well, only this year and next year, you spend 200 billion forints on the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. But, for example, have the local government associations been consulted on how they are affected by a series of restrictions that we have seen in recent years? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like you to respond to this, not to me, but to the Hungarian people, who are following the work of the Parliament. Thank you.
u2020-11-02-6	I give the floor to Secretary Philip Attila.
u2020-11-02-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to make three small comments before the answer, because I think that this question is, after all, related to the previous one. It is not an emotional issue, but a matter of fact that, for example, the opposition could be expected in spring or not. There's a pretty clear answer to that, no. At that time, the law that helps defence was not voted in favour of proposals that had only one purpose to protect everyone's health in this country. In addition, every week in Parliament, these measures are called into question in the middle of a crisis that actually has one message, and that is that everyone who attacks defence and who does not help defence doubts its reliability. I think that, in this situation, this is more than a gamble, it is precisely for those who either do not take this outbreak seriously, or they themselves join the virus densities camp. But I'm sure it won't help to have a whole social case that you can help me with. And I think there is one more thing that this virus has shown, this epidemic, that there really is no whole social issue in which we can count on the opposition. I would like to quote one more thing here, because we are, after all, past the days of the dead and beyond all the saints. The statistical tossing that always tries to cuss the dead in such a European situation, I think that it is not worthy, nor is it worthy of respect for relatives. The government's position is clear: we do not want further tightening up, but we want the decisions already taken, which are good decisions, to be followed by everyone, and the focus will be on enforcing them from now on. Congressman, I would like to add one more statistic; Mr Dömötör, State Secretary, mentioned one just now. This is published by the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, an agency of the European Union. I am obliged to respond to those who have died if this has been the case: in Hungary, the number of people who have died is 186 for 1 million inhabitants and in the European Union is more than 390 for more than twice. In Romania we know the example of 359, Ireland 390, France and Sweden more than three times the figure in Hungary, and Spain more than four times the figure in Spain, and unfortunately Belgium is well known, more than five and a half times the figure there. This is not Hungarian statistics, but ECDC statistics. I think you can believe that. In answer to questions, I would like to share three things with you. One: he asked if we had consulted the stakeholders. Well, the issues of the national consultation were precisely about the government making decisions and imposing obligations on citizens that they consider to be respected and respected. I think it's an essential element. In this respect, therefore, the consultation with society has been carried out. We talk about testing every week. The testing is done according to specific protocols, the experts will tell you what the process of good testing is. For this reason, it is a professional issue that they bring it into the walls of Parliament and make politics out of it. They question only the competence of those who, by the way, work 24 hours a day and try to overcome this epidemic. When you're accused of asking people in this area, well, decisions are made based on their suggestions. With regard to health, I can say that as the epidemic progresses, the number of hospitals involved in the care system will continue to increase. We started with enough beds because in the spring, enough beds were released. Well, then you've also set the government's eyes on why so many beds need to be freed, and now we're just saying that it's good to have enough beds. In the current situation, six additional hospitals will be involved in the care of patients with Covid, Vác, Cegléd, Esztergom, Hatvan, Baja and Orosháza. You can also see that the sampling expansion has also taken place and that laboratory capacity has also increased over the past period. I think that it can be sufficient to comply with the right rules. [[13.30]] Once again, although not with much hope, I would also like to ask you to give us this kind of support in the fight against the virus, so that we can count on you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-8	Now, Agnes Vadai, a representative of DK. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 October, the European Parliament adopted by a large majority its report on the employment and social policy of the euro area in 2020. I am quoting from the adopted text of the report: *The European Parliament welcomes the second stage of consultation on the EU framework for minimum wages. It calls on Member States to provide decent living wages above the poverty line for all workers. It calls on the Commission to present a European minimum wage framework to eradicate the poverty of active earners. He stressed that all workers in the Union should have a minimum living. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, that, indeed, my fellow Members, is all about the introduction of the European minimum wage, which was a cornerstone of the Democratic Coalition's European Parliament electoral programme. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The report itself was presented by Klára Dobrev, Vice-President of the European Parliament in DK. [[István Szilárd Németh: Who?]] This is a huge success for European workers, including Hungarian workers. Work will start to establish uniform rules for the Member States of the EU to set minimum wage rules for workers' poverty. Of course, the European Parliament's report alone is not enough. Fortunately, however, the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, announced a few days later that the Commission would present such a proposal this year, so we can safely say that one of the Democratic Coalition's election promises has reached the finish line. [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government benches.]] However, all 13 MEPs from Fidesz voted against the adoption of the report and against the elimination of workers' poverty. I would like to stress that no one from the Social Democratic Group of 145 voted against this report, 25 of the 186 members of the EPP voted against it, and more than half of it was a representative of Fidesz. In addition, the People's Party is the chair of the committee, Ursula von der Leyen. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, Tell me why you were the only party of the four moderate party families in the European Parliament who opposed paying workers a decent living above the poverty line. But I can hear it, because we know it, and they say that every year the government drastically increases the minimum wage. Really? Well, let's see the numbers. In 2010, at the time of the change of government, the minimum wage was HUF 73,500 gross, of which the employee was able to bring home approximately HUF 60,000, which amounted to EUR 227 at the rate of HUF 265 at that time. Today, the minimum wage of 161 thousand HUF remains in the employee's pocket 107 thousand forints, which is not exactly 290 euros. Well, anyway, that's 63 euros difference in ten years, or 6 euros a year. In addition, the poverty threshold is measured at 60% of the net average income. If we look at these figures, we see that in 2010 this ratio was 46 percent. It wasn't much, but we were in the middle of a crisis. Only ten years have passed, we hear that Hungary is performing better, but today the minimum wage is barely 40 percent of the net average salary. In ten years, you systematically reduce the smallest earners so that we don't talk about public wages, because that's even more tragically low. Now, this process, which you represent, so that anyone who is poor is even poorer, will be put to an end to the European minimum wage. But what is behind it, ladies and gentlemen, is that you simply do not want to eliminate the poverty of workers, and are opposed to any proposal in the European Union and at home that seeks to help citizens' well-being and better existence, and that is simply the obsession of Viktor Orbán, called a work-based society, which is all about what people should be doing. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] It is extremely difficult for you to understand that today, the biggest problem in Hungary is labour poverty, that despite the fact that a lot of people in this country are working, they cannot make a living from that money. [[Intercom from the Fidesz benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] , especially those who do very low value added work. Plus, you've been doing everything in your power over the last few years to push these people down even further. Therefore, the European minimum wage will be important not only because it eliminates the poverty of workers, but also because it will also transfer to the education system the changes needed for Hungary if not now, after 2022. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-02-10	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2020-11-02-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am now holding onto the last sentence a little bit, so the honourable Member referred to 2022. So the fact that they have hopes of winning also means that the dictatorship you've presented here in recent years was a big bluff, right? As far as wage increases are concerned, we agree that protecting jobs and raising wages are a fundamental and important objective. In our view, there are two basic conditions for increasing wages: firstly, we need an environment that encourages work rather than benefits; secondly, if we want higher wages, we need to reduce taxes on work. We have made great progress on both principles compared to your governance. This is why gross average wages in Hungary have doubled since 2010 and the real value of net average earnings has increased by one and a half times. This is true even if we know that there is still a need for further increases. At the same time, the work has a higher honour, which can be seen from the fact that instead of 12 percent of you, unemployment has been reduced to less than 4 percent. On the other hand, what did you have to offer? Recorded high taxes, such as 36 percent income tax, hundreds of thousands on the street, and a month's wage. That was your performance. As far as the minimum wage is concerned, we doubled it. You didn't say that, but the minimum wage grew from 73,000 to 161,000 forints. You raised by just 23,000 forints in about the same amount of time. As a result of their huge social sensitivity, by the end of left-wing governance, the proportion of the minimum wage relative to the average wage has decreased, so the scissors have increased. If I recall correctly, you said 40 percent. During your administration, he was 36 years old. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai shakes his head.]] There was less, so the scissors increased during a left-wing government. As for the concrete initiative, even Tibor Szanyi knows that what they say is not true, not in the morning, not at noon, not at night. The Commissioner responsible for employment also made this clear, and I quote what he said to you: "No, therefore, we do not promise that the minimum wage will be the same for all Europeans. This is completely impossible and irresponsible. He also said that there was only one proposal. So, all we're asking is that if the wages couldn't be increased noticeably during their administration, at least they shouldn't spread untruths. How much you value people who live on wages and salaries is well illustrated by the shocking statement of Klára Dobrev, the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Do you know how he described them, those living on Hungarian wages and salaries? Cheap and uneducated. Cheap and uneducated said that to them. [[Moray from the opposition benches.]] Do you agree with that, honourable Member? Do you agree with that? [[A statement from the Fidesz: That's what he said!]] So, when they get out of this fake news pit, they're gonna clean themselves up a little bit. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, if you'll excuse me, please. It is not possible to talk so leniently about Hungarian people, Hungarian people who live on wages and wages. I think that this or the next Parliament meeting will be an excellent opportunity to do so. Do it! We have talked about economic issues now, but there is also a health aspect of crisis management, as appropriate. We see that you continue to campaign on the number of people who died. We still think it's heartless and insensitive. But let me ask the question, and this also applies to economic issues and to health care: where were you when you had to vote on defensive decisions? They didn't vote for an extraordinary legal order, but the international smear campaign was launched. While public demand is being made for action, there was no vote last week on security. You didn't vote for it. Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gergely Arató didn't vote for it. But their new ally, Peter James, and Lajos Korózs in Kamuvideo, did not vote for it. By the way, the members of the party of Gergely Christmas did not vote for it either. In fact, no left-wing party has voted. So, we stand to demand action in the field of economic protection and health protection, but every time the sticks are thrown into the spokes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you still have a minute, I'd like to tell you that you don't have to love the government, but you could still have done your part in the fight against the epidemic. They refused to do so, and it seems to me that it will remain so. [[13.40]] Notice, I ask that we are at a time when swift decision-making in this House is more important than anything else, and the government will therefore do everything in its power to ensure this. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We're gonna take on the virus in the second wave, and we're gonna make it without you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-12	Next up is Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-02-13	Ladies and gentlemen, Two weeks ago, it caused a great stir in your ranks, when I said that in the summer they tried to avoid feeling locked up on the beach or on the sea, didn't they, Viktor Orbán said that anyone who didn't see the sea in one year felt in prison; they denied it, because they avoided that feeling, they stayed there quite a lot, but the fact is that they didn't prepare the country for the second wave of the virus. Since mid-September, the number of deaths per week due to the Covid epidemic has increased to 30 times, the number of people in hospital has increased to 15 times, the number of new infected people identified in a week has increased to 5 times, while five of the tests carried out have been positive, i.e. the epidemic has gone raging and out of government control, and we are still scraping the surface. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, Don't you guys ever wonder how to do something about people's lives, health, and, by the way, the safety of their livelihoods? Isn't that what they're supposed to do? ! Ladies and gentlemen, The whole world defends, protects people everywhere, but Fidesz doesn't do anything about the spread of infection. Instead of defending yourself, you continue to build an inhuman and unjust world that you started ten years ago. You're on a yacht, you're on a yacht, and you're quick to make public property private, aren't you, Mr. Balázs Orbán? You abandoned people, abandoned doctors, nurses, civilians, local governments, elderly and active age, teachers and parents, workers and unemployed, small entrepreneurs, and lied about unemployment data. It is not a defense to say that everyone should wear a mask, it is not a defense to say that we rely on individual protection in Hungarian, everyone should defend themselves as best they can, while keeping the clubs, schools, stadiums open, they refuse to test where the infected are. You can't push responsibility on people, you can't just stand by and watch more and more people die every day. The government that does this is powerless and incompetent. And it's not the answer to lying and keeping secrets, telling lies that this epidemic can't be treated. And the fact that people who work in the U21 European Championship are tax-free right now is the only thing on the cake. Ladies and gentlemen, what about workers, what about those working in the social sphere? What happens to their taxes, their wages? We need immediate action to control the epidemic. People's lives must be saved, infection must be stopped. Today, for example, many go to work with symptoms and patients because they fear 60 percent of the sick. People infect each other because the current regulation punishes those who stay at home because of the disease. We recommend that everyone, educators, social workers, shopkeepers, car mechanics, anyone who is certified by the GP to show coronal viral symptoms and be quarantined, receive 100 percent of the sick. This measure would reduce the spread of the epidemic, and people would be partners in preventing infection if we helped them. Well, let's do this. Mass screening and contact records are required. They were able to do it in Slovakia, so why is it impossible in our country? At least we'll find out how serious this is, sooner rather than later. We need to put an end to the chaos in health care. It's unacceptable for GPs to find out where the paramedics are taking sick people, where the beds are available. It is unacceptable for doctors, nurses, not to hear the cry for help. The salary increase should be extended to general practitioners as well as to those working in the social sector, in the home assistance sector. Hospitals should be strengthened financially and organisationally. It is not possible to leave people without money, to increase the time and amount of unemployment benefit, to double the family allowance, family allowances, children and children. Retirements need more money, they need a decent living. Ladies and gentlemen, We're in the middle of a medical disaster. There is still room for action, and money cannot be an obstacle; of course, it must not be wasted on stadiums, space exploration, Lőrinc Mészáros or a sports academy. You decide, you take responsibility, you take responsibility. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Start at the beginning of a future together, for Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-14	Once again, Secretary of State Attila Philip will answer. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-02-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He said that we need to strengthen health care, and we heard a rather dynamic and meaningful list of what we need in this country, so let me start with a very short list. Svábhegy Children's Hospital, National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute, Szabolcs Street Hospital and Schöpf-Merei Hospital, these were the ones that you closed; 600 billion forints, that's all they took out of health care; 16,000 active beds, that's all they took down; 6,000 medical workers, that's all they left the field under your administration. I think that when we are talking about this situation, we should bear in mind two things: that this does not concern Hungary, but the world, and let us say that if you hear the news this morning, what is the situation and what is the situation from Britain to the Czech Republic, then you can say that Hungary is a good defender and that we should not pretend that this is exclusively in Hungary and that it is independent of what is going on in neighbouring countries! Compared to Hungary's good defences, this can be said, and it can also be said that the health care that was left for this government and this country in 2010 has undergone a great deal of reinforcements over the past period, precisely so that we can cope with such situations as far as possible. Give me a number. In 2021, according to the budget already adopted for next year, there will be HUF 915 billion more in healthcare compared to 2010. You have 600 billion less and 915 billion more forints more for health care in the last ten years. I think that says a lot. And let me say again this statistic, which I think is indeed a good time to ask you once more not to throw these numbers at us all the time. But let's look at the stats. From this we can see that Hungary is among the best performing countries, the EU average is once again twice as Hungarian in terms of the number of deaths per million inhabitants, Romania and Ireland are double the figure in Hungarian data, France and Sweden are three times the figure in Hungarian data, and Spain and Belgium are four times and five times the figure in Hungary. In this situation, with the preparedness you claim that the Hungarian government did nothing in the spring, the fact is that the Hungarian government reacted among the first in March was one of the first to react in the world, and it was you who did not support them, who thought that the situation was not so serious that we should have a special legal order after all. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And we should protect our citizens after all. With regard to protective equipment, we brought in over a hundred million masks, over 95 million test gloves and 11,000 ventilators when no one else could. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!]] I think that this supports one thing: that from March onwards, this government will do everything in its power to make people less affected by the epidemic, to pay attention to the health of people, to the protection of people's lives, but also to preserve the country's viability and the functioning of the economy. To conclude, allow me to make one more comment, Congressman, on the issues or assumptions that have been raised here. On the part of the entire left-wing coalition, we always hear the same criticism and the same thing. I think that if you listen to a lot of this, sometimes you think about the Edda classic, that I was your kid, that I'm made of your blood, but we don't even know who the kid is, and who the accomplice was. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-16	Now, the leader of the Jobbik faction, James Peter. I give you the floor. [[13.50]]
u2020-11-02-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, I would like to make a point at the very beginning: if you think that I will be silenced by this 4,4 million penalty, which is indeed a record sum, then you do not know me very well. I really don't. You can punish me for millions, you can take my home, you can put me in jail, you can do whatever you want, but God forbid, I won't rest until we free this country from your false national, false Christian system, which has given this country nothing in the last ten years beyond poverty and intimidation! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Fellow Members, I know very well that this punishment is not just for me. This punishment is for everyone. Tell civilians, nurses, workers, health workers. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And anyone who dares raise their word against your system. But I say to everyone, "Don't back down." Let's not back down. For once in this life, not the righteous and not the righteous, but those who are sitting in front of me: liars in national masks. My fellow Members may not know, so I tell you: do you know when these false nationalists have punished me for HUF 4.5 million for telling the truth? October 23rd, the anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and Freedom Fight. While we remember the heroes of Jobbikók, László Kövér, in a manner appropriate to a good comrade, was busy nailing the decision on my punishment, only because I dared to tell the truth. I said that you deliberately keep Hungarian people in poverty so that they can be humiliated every four years with a bag of potatoes! Colleagues, is that your great national values? On October 23, punishing the truth with four million? Or to say behind a national-colored mask that he's a stinking jerk, like your speaker and your faction leader did? ! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Is this your great national-Christian values? This? Or the tramps? Or the fact that we're staring at the plague with a shit-faced health problem? Or is it that in ten years they have made Hungary the second most poor nation in the European Union? Is that your great national values, fellow Members? Shame on you! [[A statement from the Fidesz: Don't feel sorry for yourself. Noise, interruptions.]] Colleagues! National politics doesn't start there. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] that they are building a new national aristocracy from Hungarian thieves, Butchers and Tiborczs, although I know that this is the concept of a nation for you. For you, everyone who steals or overlooks your theft is a part of the nation, but no one who thinks differently about the world than you do. Comrade Fat told me that his opposition is not part of the nation! Wow. That is the true Christian-national idea! Just kick half the country out of the nation! That's not the kind of country we're looking for. Jobbik as a Hungarian People's Party fights for a country [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Where everyone who claims to be Hungarian is a part of the nation, whatever their origin or vote for anyone. But no one can be part of the nation who steals from this nation. I believe that we decent Hungarians are more than you. [[A statement from the ruling parties: László Bíró!]] And I know that if we decent Hungarians join forces regardless of party affiliation [[A statement from the ruling parties: Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] then we will defeat the dishonests, the thieves, the liars, and we can start building a country that you are, by the way! Thirty years ago, we were promised. I was ten years old at the time of the change of regime. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But my father always says that Peter, my son, promised us two things at that time: freedom and prosperity. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Gyurcsány!]] Well, it's like they didn't bring any of them to us. [[Intercom from the ruling parties: Discuss with Feri!]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But my father always says that my son Peter, there were two things promised us at that time: freedom and prosperity. (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Gyurcsány!) Well, it's like they didn't bring any of them to us. (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Discuss with Feri!) Yes, it seems that this 30 - year - old promise will have to come true, and we will have to start building a country where everyone has at least the opportunity to prosper! Where the country is worth as much as the capital! (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing. Where Hungarians are worth as much as Western Europeans, since we are already EU members. Where not only the person who pays for the private clinic, but also the person who only worked one life for this country and paid for the social security. Where not only does the mayor and the congressman and the prime minister get further ahead, but the one who is talented, hardworking, and who works well. Yes, fellow Members, we will put an end to the laws of thieves in this country, and even the virus will be turned into a business with the 20,000 HUF Covid test. We will put an end to the insolence of the Butchers, the lying of the Rogans, the absconding of the Polts, the merry Christmas of the Orbans. And we will give this country back to the nation, along with the money you took from the nation, so that we can give this country what you promised 30 years ago: freedom and prosperity. Prosperity for all Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-02-18	I would like to draw the attention of my fellow pro-government Members to the fact that the uniform breathing behind the mask is an important health-preservation factor, so do not rush into the air faster than it is absolutely necessary, and especially do not yell, because if so, it means that they have stopped by the provocation that is taking place here from week to week. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-02-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, The problem is that you are a parliamentary saboteur, a political minuter, and an extreme provoker. That's the most important problem. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And this House, the House of the Country, you said you taught history, so you should be aware of the facts. [[James Peter intervenes.]] a place where people send Members to consult, debate and make decisions on the most important issues in the country. And by the way, this is also a workplace in this context, and obviously the workplace needs to behave. And there's only one requirement for you that you haven't been consciously satisfied for years: how to behave. That's what we want you to do, Mr. Group Leader, to behave, because this is a workplace. [[Peter James: I promise I won't stink!]] Imagine the situation where two doctors disagree about a medical consult on what therapy they should use for the patient. Of course, there's a debate, there's a difference of opinion between us. Can you imagine the two doctors starting throwing potatoes at each other? What kind of procedure is that, Congressman? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's quite simply that. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, "Can I get the stinky-ass?"]] This is the House of the country, which deserves all the respect. We know what it's like to have no respect for this House, and there are still traces of it in the sitting rooms. Just think that if you ever once taught history, you knew exactly where that extreme provocation and that unacceptable behaviour, which you repeatedly demonstrate to everyone, could lead you to. So I would like to ask you to try, for once, not to deal with yourself, not with your political survival, but with the interests of the country, and to do so by preserving the dignity and decency of this House, and then you will be able to work in exactly the same way as all the other Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And then perhaps we could talk about issues that are really important for Hungary's present and future; for example, the issues of protection against the epidemic. The fact is, after all, that you have a privileged responsibility for not voting, for political reasons, together with your left-wing allies, on the rules for the control of the epidemic. Do you remember when you were in this house this spring and you were lying? We had to listen because, unfortunately, we had to abide by, we had to abide by, and we will abide by, Parliament's rules of conduct, and we had to listen to the clear lies you have told us, that a dictatorship is being built here, and that we are talking about crowning. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] His own left-wing allies admitted that it wasn't true. You didn't tell the truth then, you didn't support the rules on defense, and you haven't changed their behaviour since, although the Hungarian people have been fined for this behavior in the interim elections that have been held since then, thanks to God; I congratulate Zsófia Koncz on his victory. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So if you really want to do something for this country, then I would like to ask you to stop worrying about yourselves, but about the country and the protection against the coronal virus epidemic. And when it comes to tightening up the rules relating to masking, when it comes to the prohibition of visits, body temperature testing, quarantine regulations and restrictions on opening nightclubs, then in this context, in the context of compliance and enforcement of these rules, they should indeed support the measures that the Parliament determines. These rules, in our opinion, must be strictly observed and strictly enforced. This is what we expect from the authorities to enforce these rules against everyone. It's the government's responsibility. It is the opposition's responsibility, however, to behave normally, to think responsibly about its national fate and to set aside party political battles and to support national cooperation in the context of defining a strategy and practice for the control of the epidemic. [[14.00]] You're a long way from this, so please be ashamed of yourself and reconsider your strategy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-20	I now give the floor to the group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Member István Simicskó.
u2020-11-02-21	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction believes that the government and Hungarian health care are doing everything they can to ensure effective protection. Hungary does stand on several fronts: on the front of health, on the front of the family, on the protection of jobs and on the front of the economy. The range of competitiveness-enhancing grants, the job protection action, all characterize the activities of the Hungarian government so far. It is important to look back a little in such a situation, and let me give you a historical example: this is the thoughts expressed over a hundred years ago, in 1918 because of the Spanish flu epidemic. Three waves swept through the world then, and the second wave was the most devastating. On October 1, 1918, the then leadership of the city of Miskolc issued a decree stating, among other things, that people should refrain from mass gatherings, avoid getting cold, wear masks, and wash hands frequently. Even today, if we look at Miskolc and many towns and settlements, including the capital, then of course we can see different decisions. Among other things, Miskolc's left-wing leadership was raising rent and even raising transport charges and funeral expenses during the epidemic. It is clear that the left is hindering defence and not only in Miskolc: it is hindering it in the National Assembly, hindering it in Brussels and at home, also at the head of Hungarian settlements. Many have talked about this, including Secretary of State Dömötör, that you did not vote for the Crown Virus Act in Parliament, you did not vote for an extension of the emergency, and last time you did not vote for the tightening up, which is a condition of effective defence. The thing is, of course, at this point in time, one remembers that at every level, everywhere, the effectiveness of the defense is hindered. Ladies and gentlemen, In Budapest, under the leadership of Gergely Karácsony, companies are prepared to tax, the district mayors introduce rent increases, rent increases and various restrictions. Annex VII is amended as follows: In the district, the Mayor of DK, Péter Niedermüller, has just increased the amount of the construction tax, but in the meantime he has shown another ability, and this is, think about it: they have opened a mine in Erzsébetváros, and they are also reportedly engaged in cryptomining activities, and they are also stealing electricity. It is outrageous that, in times of crisis, they are not thinking about helping, not helping the government and helping the Hungarian health care, but of such tricks, which are truly outrageous. And if it weren't for an epidemic, I would think of my children's favourite cartoon, Tesz-Vesz, and I would like to present the author Richard Scarry to Péter Niedermüller. Not to mention NewBuda, where there are also a variety of residential restrictions expected and visible, and not to mention the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány's lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, with a contract of 50 million, is growing and getting rich behind him, while in NewBuda, in the midst of the epidemic, I would like to personally note that even a disgusting poster exhibition has been created and set up in Bikas Park, where Hungarian health and the EMMI minister are also trying to make a mockery. It shows well, ladies and gentlemen, who can be expected in the trouble, who can be expected in the defence. The left-wing mayor of Kispest is accusing market vendors. The kindergarten teacher's salary has been reduced. In Gyöngyös, the rents of the municipal dwellings are long, my fellow Members. The left-wing authorities are not helping the epidemic, but they are hurting people and family businesses. We know that we have experienced that the crisis management of the left has always been restrictive, at the time of their governance and now. The government is doing its job for the benefit of the people, and the left does not help or even exploit the situation and hinders defence. I would also like to say here that the Hungarian government can count on people in the coming days, weeks and months. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-22	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-11-02-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the Hungarian left has proved several times that it does not know anything about dealing with crises. Therefore, all the criticisms coming from them are completely false, because when they could have done anything for the Hungarian people, for Hungary, in a difficult situation, they did nothing, and they even brought Hungary to the brink of bankruptcy under their governance. The left has put new and new burdens on the shoulders of the Hungarian people, instead of helping them. That's what they did in the Bokros package, but that's what they did during the 2009 cutbacks. It is worth taking account of the crimes committed: the termination of the 13th month pension, the reduction of the duration of the child, the increase in the general VAT rate by 5 percentage points, the increase in the retirement age, the reduction of the pension, the taking of a month's wages from the public sector workers, the introduction of a property tax, and the reduction of all this by one more draw, while taking on a huge loan and indebting the country. Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians in Hungary were on welfare and jobs were lost instead of job creation, who still worked and were taxed to death. There are still a number of left-wing factions who have personally voted in favour of taking away one month's wages and one month's pensions or paying health care, raising VAT, introducing tuition fees or property taxes. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, the last decade has shown that Hungarian people can and want to make a living from work, and the national civilian government has proven that it can create jobs, and this will succeed and succeed again. At the beginning of 2020, there were 850 thousand more people working in Hungary than in the last quarter of 2010 before the government change, the employment rate rose above 70 per cent from the previous 54 per cent, and the unemployment rate fell from 12 per cent to 3.3 per cent. Honourable Congressman, As you have said, the Hungarian Government is doing everything it can to protect as many jobs as possible, this is what the Economic Protection Action Plan is about, and therefore includes all the support that Mr. Group leader has listed and mentioned, in the form of partly job protection, partly competitiveness-enhancing and partly job-creating grants. And indeed, the sad thing is that, although they do not have any government responsibility now, there is no support for any of these steps on the left, in fact, wherever he could, he prevented the work and tried to discredit the government's work: they produced fake news instead of working for the benefit of the people, just think about the activities of the party of Lajos Kamuvideos or the various unspeakable statements and outbursts coming from the Christmas party. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, The Left has repeatedly rejected measures to protect the living standards of jobs and families since the beginning of the epidemic, if it were up to them, there would be no wage support, no credit moratorium, no tax reduction. Instead, they would introduce new aids and raise taxes, as we see where they are in power. [[14.10]] Today, they want to drive the country to the brink of bankruptcy, just as they did during their government. And indeed, Mr Group Leader has also set a number of examples of the fact that left-wing municipalities are still thinking about austerity. It also shows that, as they used to, they are unfit for crisis management. Christmas in Gergely, mayor. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] there's clearly no sense of responsibility, and with his testament he's constantly pointing to the government instead of...
u2020-11-02-24	Mr. Secretary, your time has passed.
u2020-11-02-25	...thank you for introducing the necessary measures in Budapest. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-26	On the last floor before the agenda, Mr Lajos Kósa spoke on behalf of Fidesz. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-02-27	Mr. President. Dear House, It's old folk wisdom to know a friend in trouble and to know a man in trouble. Unfortunately, Hungary has been in serious trouble several times in the past period, and we have all seen that the left cannot be expected. [[György Balla: That's right!]] In fact, I have to say that the nature of the left-wing crisis management is now being developed. We may remember that in 2008, Ferenc Gyurcsány said that there is no crisis that talks about it, the terrifying provocator; because the crisis itself was denied when it was clear to everyone that there was serious trouble and that it was not prepared for unexpected difficulties. Let us recall that this crisis began with the fact that the most important advisor to Mayor Gergely Christmas, his good friend, Jávor Benedek, wrote that this epidemic would be relatively harmless. And they did not withdraw this irresponsible statement, and they even rewarded it by saying that today he is the head of the capital's office in Brussels, I believe, for good money. Then, when the epidemic becomes apparent, the first thing that comes to mind of the left is the reduction of salaries, the reduction of incomes and the increase in taxes. This was the case between 2008 and 2010, but it is the case now. Because, think about what the number one leader of the capital was thinking: that he was saving a little on the BKV quickly, and that he introduced the amazing measure during the epidemic, that he reduced the number of BKV flights, thereby artificially increasing congestion on the flights; it had to be withdrawn. The government had to get away from free parking; the government had to take Gergely Christmas's place at the nursing home, especially on Pest Road, where the mayor couldn't even go there himself; otherwise, he hadn't been seen there until today. And they did not support the Fidesz-KDNP government from the beginning of crisis management, they did not vote for the relevant laws, but they spread lies about Hungary. This is how CNN's reporter could have been asking our foreign minister why we shut down Parliament; while Parliament was working, we were all here, during this period Péter Szijjártó spoke several times in Parliament. But they did not support the key measures that helped the country in the first phase of the epidemic and made clear the unpredictable fact that Hungary is among the best countries for disease management. On the other hand, we have all heard from the faction leader of the party of Christmas that most of the dead are in Hungary, not in a relative, absolute sense, which is an obvious absurdity. Anyone who knows the populations of the countries of the world knows that this absolutely cannot be true. And what is happening now, because there is nothing new under the sun: when they kept talking about the second stage of the epidemic, when the government should be tightened up, when it will take the key measures necessary to control the epidemic, we put it forward and did not vote for it. They did not vote in favour of tightening up, they did not vote in favour of the instruments needed. In fact, Ferenc Gyurcsány even protested that when Parliament decided to tighten the mask, the Internet showed that he was hugging young fans without masks and kissing each other. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] What if it's not an obvious provocation? Not to mention that, of course, the Fidesz-KDNP government, after not stopping life, but defending itself against the epidemic, brings together all the family-friendly, home-building, family-supporting measures that the opposition also does not support. So not only do they not help, they do not support, they not only take down the country by chamomuvides, but they do so by themselves. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They also do not support actions that would help people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-28	Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-11-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As Congressman said, there is no new under the sun, it is indeed worth comparing what happened during the crisis in 2008-2009 and what is happening today. At that time, the Left completely emptied the state register, IMF loan kept the country on a ventilator, gave up our country's economic sovereignty, sold out and stolen national assets, continued budget deficits, and then doubled unemployment. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] We also know some concrete measures, they all remember: they took a month's wages from public sector workers, they took a month's pension from the elderly, they taxed the family allowance, they raised the retirement age. [[Máté Kocsis: Shame!]] and shortened the duration of the child. This was the case with left-wing crisis management when they always thought of austerity. We can also say with one sentence that they paid the price of their own incompetence with Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. Let's look at what is happening now: since the government of Fidesz-KDNP, we have taken an economic turn, the Hungarian economy is on a long-term growth path, and the country has also stabilised financially. We help Hungarian people, Hungarian families, and we also help Hungarian businesses during the crisis. We will rebuild the 13th month pension from January next year. The largest increase in medical wages will take place so far. We introduced and extended the credit moratorium. We provide wage support for jobs and job creation to people, businesses. And since 2010, it is an important principle of Hungarian family policy that we will never lose support, but we will always expand it, and we will also do so during the epidemic. The Hungarian government does not abandon families when all countries of the world are forced to face an economic crisis, and even in these weeks and months we will achieve the greatest support for home creation of all time. This programme will help families, workers and employers alike, help to improve the standard of living of families and boost the economy and create new jobs. Based on these, we have compiled five steps of home creation, which, building on each other and complementing each other, can contribute up to tens of millions of forints to a young couple's home creation. Such a step is to reduce VAT. The first notified measure is that, in the case of newly built apartments, VAT will be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. In this connection, VAT exemption will also be introduced: for families with children who use CSOK, the state will completely release the payment of VAT. We're also thinking about remodeling at home. As a next step, we also thought of families who already have their own home and are planning to renovate there. We decided to take half of the renovation costs, up to HUF 3 million, from the families. The amount of renovation will be reclaimed both in terms of material costs and in terms of labour costs. From January, families who use CSOK to purchase new or used residential property will be exempt from paying a 4 per cent levy. Finally, we also support multigenerational home creation. During the development of the programme, we have taken into account all life situations, and we would also like to offer opportunities for families who imagine their future under shared roof, supporting each other, but still in separate airspace. [[14.20]] The Hungarian State contributes to this by using the amount of the CSOK for the purchase of the new apartment for the construction of the attic from January onwards. You can see the difference between left-wing crisis management and the difference between the current crisis management carried out by the civilian government. Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses can still count on us, we are working to let the Hungarian people know that there is a safe roof over their heads. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-30	Dear Parliament, Mr Félix Farkas is now taking the floor before the roma minority spokesperson's agenda. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-02-31	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We, the nationalities living in our country, are part of the Hungarian political community, and together with this we are a factor of state making. Hungary grants fundamental rights to all without discrimination, namely race, colour, gender, disability, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other situation. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. All these are enshrined in the Fundamental Law. As the Fundamental Law states, the exercise of freedom of expression should not be aimed at violating the dignity of the Hungarian nation, national, ethnic, racial or religious communities. It is painful that in our country there are still extremist political parties who make a distinction on the basis of race or race. It's the Jobbik. [[Rushing and interrupting from Jobbik's ranks.]] Or is it not just them anymore? I say this because recently, before the interim parliamentary elections in Szerencs, he talks about Roma inclusion with the two faces of Jobbik, and then after the election, when Dr. Zsófia Koncz obtained a mandate, we congratulate him with all our heart. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The opposition parties immediately came under attack, and there comes a statement like this: you would never win without the gypsies. I have to say that the Roma in Hungary have the right to vote as an integral part of society, and I see nothing surprising about their right to vote for someone who does not make exclusional comments on them, but helps their lives and their progress. But before the elections, I drew Jobbik's attention to the fact that domestic gypsyism does not forget that you have not so long feared both ruin and not ruin, and Peter James, the party president of Jobbik, has often made racist statements. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including James Peter: We didn't put anyone in the boiler. No one.]] According to him, the gypsies steal a significant portion, dirty the middle of the room, and don't want to work, want to maintain an inexpensive lifestyle, parasite and destructive. And for that, all the parties on the left are assisting. Do you even agree with that? In the interim elections in Szerenc, the opposition left was behind László Bíró, who also had racist comments. No wonder he's part of Jobbik. It is shameful that the left, which considers itself liberal, is not separated from Jobbik, who carries anti-Semitic manifestations, and from Peter James's potato-distributive views. Jobbik also created the Hungarian Guard to intimidate Gypsyism in Hungary, thus causing fear in every good-hearted person. There's a reason 17 of them are sitting in this room today, and not 26 of them, just like two years ago. The religion of anti-Semitic views is the 21st. It's no longer trendy in the first century. Unlike you, the current government protects its nationalities in accordance with the Fundamental Law, provides an opportunity to catch up, a scholarship to learn, work to make a living. Trust me, gypsies don't steal, they want to work, and they work, they don't mess with the middle of the room. Gypsyism has a history, Gypsyism has a culture, Gypsies in Hungary have a country, Hungary is Hungary. Almost a million people live here, just like any other nationality, just like Hungarians, because we are Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. Take care, take care of each other. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-32	State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, The way he talks, the way Jobbik's party leader, the faction leader, the way most of the faction and its party behaves [[Peter James: I drink his words.]] Unfortunately, it is filtered down into elections and all other areas that unfortunately occur against nationalities living in Hungary, including Gypsy. And it's typical left-wing double standard that while Jobbik threatens to provoke Gypsy, his allies, the left-wing side, are not disturbed. [[Constant intervention from Jobbik and opposition parties.]] At Nyíregyháza, however, a well - functioning school of Gypsy children was attacked to close it. Gyöngyöspatán used the problems there as an excuse, which they had launched towards the European Union, but they were not interested in catching up and catching up with families. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik, DK and Dialogue.]] Gypsy people, the fate of gypsy families doesn't care about the left at all. Neither there nor in the country can they count on the left in any settlement. They will use it to Brussels for their petty political purposes, but they will not stand by them. But what about when the left is on the steering wheel? They're not doing anything for them. Before 2010, the left was perhaps the best one in the most educational area necessary for catching up. Under the leadership of the DK State Secretary Gergely Arató, schools were closed in 381 settlements, and 15 thousand teachers were dismissed in most disadvantaged settlements. The cause of the Pearl Pata case began during their government. The left did not prepare the Roma catch-up programme, the European Union was expecting Hungary in vain. The left raised the overhead to the skies, thus increasing poverty. And the left gave only the aid, the humiliating aid, and the job, it did not offer either to the gypsy or to the fallen people. What has Fidesz-KDNP been able to offer and offer in the last ten years? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Instead of a relief job, children see that the father, mother, goes to work. While 223 thousand public workers were employed in 2016, today this number has fallen to 94 thousand, most of them are first-class, i.e. in the primary labour market. [[Demercation and intervention from opposition parties.]] Thanks to the municipalities, thanks to the companies, and thanks to the Gypsy families for doing this. Since 2010, there has been a special and free meal on holiday. We've raised the funding more than three times. In ten years, we have achieved that in 2020 all full-time students will now receive free textbooks. We have created a European Roma strategy, which is unique, and this is what we have been following in Europe ever since. Through the programme of catching up settlements, we have created the possibility of women, screening programs, workplace opportunities, sport and education for over 320 thousand people in 300 of the most disadvantaged settlements. Since 2011, we have introduced the social fuel programme, and this year 2329 small settlements will receive it free of charge. [[14.30]] During the Covid epidemic in the first round, we were able to give a gross reward of HUF 500,000 to persistent teachers in 400 disadvantaged settlements, mostly inhabited by Romas and Gypsies. Obviously, there could be more, it could obviously be better and more perfect, but while in 2010 there were 3 million people living below the poverty line, by 2019 this figure fell by more than 900 thousand; by the way, twice as much as our commitment to the EU, and what the EU called ambitious, was to reduce the number of poor by ten years. Since 2010, the number of jobs has increased by 850 thousand. The figures confirm that decisions serve the potential and the value of the Roma population in Hungary. Thank you, the majority who have played a part in everything, do not listen to them, so to Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He who is uneducated calls the gypsy a two-handed worker. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, including, "He's lying!"]]
u2020-11-02-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Szabó to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-11-02-35	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Erik Fülöp, independent; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Márta Demeter, LMP; László Varju, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; János Latorcai, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz; Félix Farkas is a ethnic advocate. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Thursday.
u2020-11-02-36	Dear Parliament, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mrs.Zsófia Koncz has obtained a mandate as a candidate for Fidesz-KDNP in the interim election that was vacant due to the death of our fellow Member Ferenc Koncz. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mrs.Zsófia Koncz's credentials on the basis of the electoral documents. I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate, in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2020-11-02-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With the death of Ferenc Koncz, the mandate of the individual representatives acquired in 2018 has become vacant. The daughter of the citizens of Borsod's 6th constituency, Dr. Zsófia Koncz, was elected Parliamentary Representative on 11 October. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] On 16 October, by decision of the single mandate constituency committee, this mandate was issued to the representative woman. This decision became final on 25 October, so that at today's committee meeting, the Committee on Exemptions examined the usual documents, and they arrived fully before the Committee. Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz said that there is no conflict of interest in her, so the Parliament unanimously reached a decision by the Audit Committee to propose to the Parliament that Dr. Zsófia Koncz's term of office be confirmed by Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-38	Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandate will be confirmed by the Parliament without debate. Before we begin the procedure for certification of mandates, please press one of the buttons of your voting machine to check the operation of the voting machines. [[Attendance check. Present: 159; away: 39.]] Looks like no one's indicated that your computer wouldn't work, so we'll get to the vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to justify the mandate of Mrs Koncz Zsófia. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously confirmed the mandate of Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz by 159 votes in favour. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Now it is the solemn oath of the elected representative and the signature of the oath papers. I ask Mrs Zsófia Koncz to come to the centre of the Chamber and take her oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and I would ask this House to stand up and listen to it as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Zsófia Koncz steps into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2020-11-02-39	I, Dr. Zsófia Koncz, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2020-11-02-40	The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Zsófia Koncz and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to congratulate Mrs Zsófia Koncz, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish her work and its performance good luck and good health. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199 again. [[Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Miklós Soltész, Katalin Novák, Dr. Imre Ritter, Dr. Zita Gurmai, Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes, Zoltán Varga and Sándor Burány congratulated Dr. Zita Gurmai. Applause.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Szabó to explain this.
u2020-11-02-41	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Norbert Erdős as State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry with effect from 1 November 2020. Budapest, 19 October 2020 Sincerely: János Áder [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Norbert Erdős as State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry with effect from 1 November 2020. Budapest, 19 October 2020 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2020-11-02-42	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Mr Norbert Erdős and wish him every success in his work. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. [[14.40]] The MSZP Group initiated the launch of the 2017 LXXVI on transparency of organisations supported from abroad. T/11058 repealing Act T/11058 in order to comply with European Union law The Parliament shall discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure. The emergency proposal is T-1108/3. You can get to know him on the website. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to T/11058. for the urgent negotiation of the series of proposals, as proposed by the Group. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House did not contribute to the urgent trial by 48 votes in favour, 109 against, without abstention. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/13515 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2020-11-02-43	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament amending the parliamentary decision. 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament (Gr. 8. Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows. The Parliament elects Zsófia Koncz, Fidesz, member of the Committee for Sustainable Development, to replace Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz, as a member of the Committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 2 November 2020 László Fat
u2020-11-02-44	Dear Parliament, Now it's time to make a decision again. I ask the House to accept S/13515. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the personal proposal unanimously by 159 votes in favour. An immunity matter will now be discussed and decided. I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of Ágnes Vadai, DK, Member of Parliament, on 26 October 2020 16.Bpk.1600/2020/2. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted a proposal for a decision on this matter, so the agenda proposes that immunity be suspended on this day. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As has already been said, Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the transcript of the District Court, Ms Ágnes Vadai filed a motion to suspend her immunity for defamation. On 1 October, Ágnes Vadai commented in a comment on the III. This statement was registered by the current mayor of the district. The Cyber Crime Department of the National Bureau of Investigation is a III. he identified a district defender and her partner as a criminal offence involving pedophilia, and three public figures, actually Ágnes Vadai, current mayor of the district and his former mayor, argued in public that the procedure in the way the previous municipal administration handled this case was in line with all requirements. Obviously, in the view of the opposition congresswoman, this is not the case. The reporter, the former mayor, thinks in his complaint that what happened in public was deliberately misinformed by Ágnes Vadai, and did so for political reasons, which is capable of damaging his honor. The immunity committee, as always in this case, is investigating a public prosecutor's case or a private charge. Three public figures are arguing with each other in public space, but it's still a private charge. The Parliament's Committee on Patents, bound to its previous practice, therefore proposes to the Parliament that Ms Ágnes Vadai's mandate in this matter should not be suspended in the case in question. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. From the location of Dr. Agnes Vadai, he's heading for the pulpitus.]]
u2020-11-02-46	Ms Ágnes Vadai wishes to speak if I understand the attitude that is attached to her correctly. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: Ouch!]] There's no reason to rumble, gentlemen. Here you go. [[Interview from KDNP: Mining union!]]
u2020-11-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't ask for the floor to ask for anything to suspend my immunity. [[Interview from KDNP lines: Then why?]] I asked for the floor because what led to this is deeply upsetting and distressing. As has been mentioned, Balázs Bús, former Fidesz mayor of Óbuda, reported me for defamation. He did this because at a press conference, I asked him why he was hiding a pedophile case as mayor in a kindergarten in Óbuda. Specific e-mailing proves that Sad knew about this case, but he didn't do anything. The case is very clear: a kindergarten teacher took pornographic footage of the children in her care. Sadness knew all this, and instead of immediately notifying the parents and the body of representatives and investigating what had happened, instead he tried to hide the matter. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Kaleta!]] And we know this because the opposition leadership of Óbuda, elected last October, and Mayor László Kiss, revealed this case with exemplary detail, and took all measures to protect children, all that Balázs Bús missed. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'll handle this specific complaint against me, that's irrelevant. But it's not that it's not an individual case. Any crime committed to harm children, in my legal and moral opinion, is one of the most serious crimes. Sexual abusers and exploiters of children are simply monsters. If for any reason, for any purpose, but especially for political purposes, someone conceals such acts, regardless of their legal judgment, he is guilty in my eyes. Ask yourself, if your child, grandson, niece or nephew had been the victim, you would have expected to be informed immediately. If you had your treasure in kindergarten where such a terrible thing was happening, wouldn't you have rushed straight to kindergarten to take the child out and demanded an immediate comprehensive examination? They would have demanded it. I would never have come up here on my own. But this case and the purpose of it is to hide it, it simply brought me here, to this pulpit. I think the most repulsive thing about this whole process is that they've been trying to cover it up on the benefit of the victims. In a short time, this is the third pedophile scandal we've faced, which Fidesz has tried to hide. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying!]] First, they tried to hide the case of former Peruvian ambassador Gábor Kaleta, whose computer contained 19 thousand photos of pedophiles. The biggest secret escape was to get him home. Then they tried to hide that Tivadar Fohsz, the 17th. The ex-fidesz deputy mayor of the district was also involved in a pedophile case. Seriously, I'm not waking up. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: You can see it! There's a lot of information in the ranks of the ruling parties. Tibor Nunkovics to the ranks of the governing parties: Is that what you're laughing about? Shame on you.]] Pedophile crimes have no gender, nationality, religion, or party affiliation. The perpetrators of such acts must be cast out by the community, and I would also like to stress this to the representatives of the Catholic Church. The protection of children is a human, moral duty for everyone. Hiding such cases does not help to condemn sinners or to reassure victims. In fact, he often encourages them to commit such hideous crimes. [[14.50]] Please take this very seriously. You can't just keep your heads down and keep secrets when it comes to your own. These monsters must be brought to justice and condemned, not babysit and protect them. And I will bring every case I know to the public, and I don't care how many times I'm gonna have to stand here and be reported. I beg you, it's children. Just think about it for a second. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And with due respect, I ask you to join me in the fight against pedophiles, so that you can't hide such cases. And for the last time, I asked you so nicely. Thank you very much. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2020-11-02-48	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. The suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the well-known Members of Parliament present. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ágnes Vadai. Please vote. [[Vote.]] With 3 votes in favour, 143 against and two abstentions, the House did not suspend the immunity of the Member. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. Now, at 2:52 p.m., we move on to the immediate questions after a brief technical break, after all the congresswoman and gentlemen leave the meeting room as quickly and quietly as possible if they have anything else to do. [[Several Members leave the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Katalin Novák granted a Minister without a wallet for families to answer. I ask the Member to accept the Minister's reply. [[György Szilágyi: We wait for Viktor Orbán.]] Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. In the absence of the Minister, Attila Philip is ready to respond if the Members accept it. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I'll wait for the minister.]] They also await the personal presence of the responder. Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question. I ask whether Mr Károly Kontra will accept his reply. [[For signal:]] Yeah, so here's the thing. You got it.
u2020-11-02-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before today's agenda, Félix Fidesz Farkas spokesperson for Roma ethnicity, who allegedly spoke for the sake of Gypsyism and for the sake of the alleged opposition racism. He resented that the opposition, well, was not very pleased with the outcome of the Borsod interim election, even though famous gypsy public figures highlighted the reproach of the votes bought on potatoes. What can be said, by the way, when a fidesz activist brags about his social media mafia connections and boasts that he recruited 800 people, paid ten thousand forints of bounty. And then there's a picture of this one-and-a-half-pound, not-so-confident good man who calls opposition voters completely racist in the village where he lives, and not in a racist way, but threaten them, saying that they'll be more watched from now on. Félix Farkas stood up, told his story here, and by the way, he should represent the entire Hungarian Gypsy, not only the fidesz Gypsy, but also the Jobbik Voters and the left-wing Gypsy voters. Nevertheless, he has now made a faithful oath towards the Orbán government. However, his concern for Gypsyism would have been much more authentic if, let's say, he asked the former Prime Minister's Roma Commissioner, Flórian Farkas, a few questions about where the 1.6 billion forints were going to be spent on catching up. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now is the time to shout!]] Or you could have asked Mr. János Pócs, the Fidesz Pócs, why it is so funny to put a vulnerable worker in a boiler. Then you could have asked a member of the government about why they took away half the state's support from the School of the Pearl Foundation, where they teach precisely multiple underprivileged gypsy children, to whom this is the only ray of hope in their lives. [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] He didn't do that. I ask you: you think that party politics was the right thing to do... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-02-50	Congressman, you can't ask any more questions because your time is up. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For four seconds?! You're kidding. Let's enjoy this day. A round of applause from Jobbik.]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the hour of immediate questioning has relatively strict rules regarding time management, so two minutes in the first round and one minute in the second, for everyone, Mr Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In your comments, in your immediate question, it seems that they were still unable to accept the results of the 11 October election, they could not accept it. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Answer the question!]] They couldn't accept it, and they couldn't accept that you lost, that your candidate had been rejected by the voters in Borsod's 6th constituency. As regards the comment by Felix Farkas on the Roma minority advocate, I think that they speak for themselves, as said by the ethnic advocate. [[Delight, applause in the ranks of Jobbik. Anita Kőrös: That's right!]] He spoke of the extreme revelations and the revelations that you have made in Hungary over the past ten years about the Roma, whether in relation to the fear of the 2011 Bead Patas, or in connection with their hateful and other revelations. [[Peter James: Say something about the boiler! The president's ringing the bell.]] or In connection with various migrations, which resulted in the need to tighten the criminal code in order to curb uniformed crime. He had to be stopped. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You are here to answer! Peter James: Is it good to put Gypsy people in the boiler?! Answer me!]] We had to stop him and stop him. Today we can say that Hungary is a safe country, Hungary has order and security, and the threats that you have posed to law-abiding Hungarian citizens, the Roma, are completely unfounded. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't shine, you have to answer! Tibor Nunkovics: Settle down!]] And what Félix Farkas has said is for you, and you cannot disprove them, because they express the reality that you have described over the past ten years, and what you have said about the Roma minority has been done. [[Anita Kőrösi: Time is up! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-02-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ander Balázs. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-53	[[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't gypsy me!]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The luxury government spits on Hungarian people. He spits on the eyes of those whose taxes he's urinating on, and spits on the eyes of those who should be caught up with these money. The most embarrassing symbol of all this, let's say, is when their chief advisor against child hunger presents an account of 36 thousand forints of luxurious wine. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops! Answer that.]] The thing is, that's what Flórian Farkas should have told you about. But he didn't do that. One thing we can promise here: even after the fall of the Orbán government, the Folk Party Jobbik will still provide a friend better for all honest people, regardless of their origins, who see the future of their responsible children in learning and working. [[Anita Kőrösi: That's right!]] That's the thing. There's no need for the gypsy to be afraid here, so it's the criminals alone, and the politicians, too. [[James Peter: They are here!]] who better start sipping 36,000 forints of Gabbiano Chianti quickly, because they won't have much time for this sort of thing. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[15.00]]
u2020-11-02-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Peter James: About the boiler!]] Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Team Leader, your job is to maintain order in your own faction, not to interfere. [[Peter James: It bothers me so much that he put a gypsy man in the boiler and he's still sitting here!]] I'm sorry, at least try to be fair about this. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-02-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You can see that you're nervous, you're scared. [[Noise, leaks from Jobbik's benches.]] And that's why you have these reactions, because you know that it's Felix the Wolf, not Flória the Wolf, as you've renamed it. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Same!]] as Félix Farkas has told us, it is true. It should also be said that in the last ten years, the government has taken measures to catch up with the Roma minority. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why don't you dare answer? Anita Kőrösi: Where's the money?]] Since 2012, 900,000 people have been out of poverty [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] Roma are among the poorest, so they have also been positively affected by this change. [[Tibor Nunkovich intervenes.]] The number of people living in extreme poverty decreased from 481 thousand in 2013 to 103 thousand in 2018. In the field of employment we managed to make progress, 180. Definitely starting house for children, 185 at school to help Roma children learn [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It sucks! It sucks! Thank you for ending this.]] every day after school. My fellow Members, the truth hurts you, you're afraid, you're nervous, you can see it in the manifestations, the yellings. [[Peter James: Ten seconds!]] and it is also apparent that you have lost the trust of the Roma community. Thank you very much. [[Anita Kőrösi: Sit down, Number One! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-56	Dear House, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is this, Mr. Prime Minister? It's an address. Madam Member, because of the absence of Prime Minister, Katalin Novák, Minister without a wallet, has given her the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-11-02-58	Thank you very much. Madam Congresswoman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister must answer the question at the hour of the second immediate question, and that life is such that you have the next question. Dear House, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why does the Government save on pensioners?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Katalin Novák, Minister without a wallet for families was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-11-02-59	Out.
u2020-11-02-60	I see you're indicating to me that you'll accept it. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Madam Secretary! Let's just say the Fidesz was a disgrace to the pensioners. They can murmur about it, but tell me how much help you've given pensioners since the outbreak started. There's only one thing they can say: a week's pension, but it's still a promise they'll get in February next year. Meanwhile, in the shops, there's a brutal treasure raging. There are foods that have doubled in a year, but medicines also cost a lot more. Do you know what you've been doing since the beginning of the year? Inflation was under-planned by converting the difference at the end of the year. Let's just say the Fidesz government used the old people's money for almost a year. And you still don't give the pensioners what they deserve. In recent years, the additional pension increase has been determined on the basis of the number of the first eight months. This year, however, KSH calculated the first three quarters of the year, i.e. nine months' pensioner-price index, which is 4 percent, although if the first eight months were watched, this figure would be close to 4.3 percent. Yet you would only add 1.2 percent to the 2.8 percent increase at the beginning of the year. Why don't you give me the plus 0.3 percent of the eight months calculated? But even if this were to be debated, it is, of course, without doubt, that the price of food in the basket of pensioners has more than doubled the average inflation. That would justify a 1.5 percent pension increase. Many pensioners are seriously poor and starving, and among them, yes, we find a lot of my female partners, since retired women receive 40 percent less pensions than men. We believe that in a situation like this, it would be fair that in November all pensioners would receive at least 50,000 forints. That's why I'm asking the government what they're gonna do for the needy pensioners, and they're willing to help them. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-11-02-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I have said, the answer to your immediate question from Minister Katalin Novak will be heard. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear fellow Members, Thank you for talking about an important issue, because the fact that Hungarian pensioners and the Hungarian elderly receive as much support as possible in peacetime and now, when they are threatened by particular threats, I think we all have a common objective.In 2010, we promised Hungarian pensioners that we would maintain the purchasing value of pensions. That was not even a small commitment in 2010, and I can say that we have not only fulfilled this commitment in the last ten years, but we have succeeded in fulfilling this commitment. This means that we have linked pensions to inflation. So there is an inflation-following pension system in Hungary today, and a pension system that guarantees that pensioners can't get any worse even if we misestimate it at the beginning of the year, we don't exactly estimate the rate of inflation. So this means raising pensions at the beginning of the year according to the rate of inflation planned, and if inflation is then lower than the planned inflation, there have been several years when this was the case, they do not, of course, have to pay back anything from the increased pensions, they can keep this increased pension and even increase their pension in the next year. If actual inflation exceeds the level of inflation planned, this will be corrected subsequently. This is done according to the law every year, which is how it happened this year. I would add that this is, by the way, an inflation rate adapted to the retired consumer basket, so pensions have increased accordingly. By the way, when compared to 2010, pensions have increased by more than 10 percent in real terms, i.e. in purchasing power, which could always be higher, but let's not forget that we have been able to give a voucher to pensioners on three occasions, as well as a return certificate, and nearly 300,000 women were able to retire with early retirement thanks to women 40. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-64	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-65	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Obviously, I'm not just talking about this 300,000 women, we're talking about a lot more women. Obviously, I asked very precisely why the first nine months were counted and why not the first eight months, because that is the difference between 1.2 and 1.5. Once again, there are many, many pensioners who count every penny. In any case, your government has never given you a 13th month pension, if I remember correctly, and we have done so many times. So I would like to say to Minister that pensioners need help not next year, but now. He told me about the retirement basket. I told you very clearly here, too, that he did rise to double. This is not reflected in this issue. I'm asking you very nicely to give those pensioners who are miserable a chance. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to the secretary. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Speaking of Congresswoman, I must respond so much to the 13th month's pension that, in my memory, the left-wing government has taken away the 13th month's pension and we are returning it. So did they give or didn't give? They took it. The only thing we know for sure is that they took it. But let us look ahead, that is what you asked, Congresswoman, and I am a partner in this. Let's look forward to returning the 13th month pension. Moreover, the 13th month's pension is four points larger than the one previously known. On the one hand, because they receive not only old-age pensioners, as before, but all pensioners or pensioners will not have a top ceiling, so everyone will receive their 13th month pension regardless of the amount of the pension. They will receive a lump sum, not as they used to, but a lump sum at the beginning of the year, or a pension premium. When you terminated your 13th month pension, you introduced the pension premium, which you never paid for, and our government did it first, second and third. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2020-11-02-68	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "All children should enjoy chianti and luxurious champagne? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Katalin Novák, Minister without a wallet, was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-11-02-69	I'll take it, thank you.
u2020-11-02-70	Thank you very much. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Which one of us wouldn't remember the picture of Zsuzsa Hegedűs, the prime minister's chief advisor on poverty, getting out of a luxury car, giving the poor pig and chicken to the poor, telling everything about what this government thinks about poverty, what it thinks about measures to improve the lives of the poor, or even human dignity? We're talking about a consultant with a monthly income of nearly one million forints, who's still All Children Live Well! He set up a foundation, where hundreds of millions of public funds flowed and then the organization phantomized, but also as prime minister's chief advisor, so to speak, according to press reports, he has been using, for example, his repence in a suspicious way for years. In DK we didn't let that happen, and we sued these spendings with three years' legal force, so I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State who is the child, who is the starving child who wants to alleviate the stomach of the gorgo by buying him 15 thousand HUF Veuve Clicquot French luxury champagne. Or how will you solve the problem of children's, say, warm meals if the prime minister, who wants to improve their lives or is charged with this task, buys Chianti and Italian red wine more than 35 thousand forints of the state's money entrusted to him? Of course, these measures will not solve the problem; this is not the intention of Zsuzsa Hegedűs. It is quite obvious that the Prime Minister's Chief Advisor took these state resources and used them for his own well-being. What kind of person gets the authority to do this, but does he? ! I ask Mr. Secretary of State how long will Viktor Orbán's chief advisor remain, Zsuzsa Hegedűs, the Prime Minister's representative, who is the money of the children? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2020-11-02-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the answer to Minister Katalin Novak. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear fellow Members, I think we should talk about the point. The point is how we fight to reduce poverty in Hungary and to help Roma catch up. This has been our ten-year goal in 2010, and we have been trying ever since to make sure that there are fewer and fewer poor children and poor families in Hungary, and that Gypsies feel that their opportunities are constantly expanding. One of the principles that we have been following since 2010 is that we offer jobs instead of aid. We have eliminated the aid policy that the left feels belongs to. We said not to give people aid, but to give people jobs. This is also confirmed by the figures that show that more and more people are working in Hungary, that unemployment is getting lower and that the honour of the work has really returned, and that today in Hungary the work has been honoured again. That is why we will not give up in the future, and that is why we have introduced the principle of work instead of aid-based thinking. Let's talk about free children's meals, for example, thanks to which every child in need gets a free meal today! But even if we look at all the children, half a million kindergarteners and schoolchildren eat for free or at a discount. We have tripled the amount spent on children's meals. This represents HUF 86 billion in the 2021 budget. In order not to starve these children not only during school hours but also during holidays, this is why we have introduced the mandatory holiday meal, which is about giving children in need during spring, summer, autumn, winter holidays and weekends, if their parents so request, a free meal at the local government. All children participating in public education receive textbooks free of charge from September. This also helps to reduce children's exposure to poverty, but this is also served by the Erzsébet camps. If you are thinking of our Roma programme, we have been putting the integration of Gypsies on our flag since 2010 and the catch-up of Gypsies, and we have been working ever since to make this programme as successful as possible. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-74	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-75	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have failed to answer one question or one of my questions. In particular, he did not in any way touch on the subject in which I asked you questions. In particular, we are talking about how long Zsuzsa Hegedűs, chief advisor of the Prime Minister, who is the money of the poor, can continue to be in his position. Do you ever wonder if you should pay me back, for example, to pay me back these spendings? I know that the panel was written with you on Friday that you actually gave this to someone else as a representational gift, but the only problem is that I have the court documents, including the judgment of the Curia, in which the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office and Zsuzsa Hegedűs acknowledge that they do not want to give the data because they can draw conclusions about their eating habits, consumption patterns and the special nature of the food to the health of the person concerned. That's what he ate. So I ask you once again what the fate of Zsuzsa Hegedűs, who is a sympathetic phenomenon, and obviously, from the luxurious yachts on the Adriatic and the massages of private airplanes, there is no evidence of the misery that he has not helped solve. I need your answer. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2020-11-02-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for Madam Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It is not my place to protect Zsuzsanna Hegedűs, but I have also avoided this part of his question, and I have tried to talk about the point, because I have a few calling words to recommend to my fellow Members. Do you remember him as a hunger march? Do you remember that name, István Nyakó, who admitted to spending his time saunaing when they rested at the end of the hunger march? Or even working as a political secretary of state during the Gyurcsány government, who dated Harley Davidson. László Kordas was dating Harley Davidson, and he also protested as a member of the hunger march. So we can come up here with stories like that, you and us, I think we should talk about the point. Let us talk about the common goal of reducing the number of children at risk of poverty and poverty in Hungary, a family at risk, and let you make sure that we can move forward on this issue. Let's focus on the point, fellow Member. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-78	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Pálinka or food on the table?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Prime Minister Katalin Novák, Minister without a wallet, was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you, you accept the Minister as a reply, or you ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-11-02-79	I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-11-02-80	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer in the hour of the next immediate question, and, if all is true, you will follow the next question. Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: what is the government's intention? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai granted the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for your acceptance of the responder. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have been going through a shocking few weeks because we are talking about it, and we can see that although exactly the Secretary of State replied to my immediate question a few weeks ago on reducing the VAT on basic foodstuffs, that the budget cannot bear the burden of this difficult, crisis-stricken time, you have, on the other hand, instead of reducing the VAT on basic foods, reduced the price of new-built apartments, which, according to the Minister of Finance's information, is around HUF 120 billion, and at the same time the taxation of home-cooked brandy is practically abolished, so the home-cooked pálinka has been tax-free. It is amazing to see this, so allow me to ask you a few questions in this House. What social policy purpose lies behind the fact that while the majority of the VAT on basic foods is 27 percent, and yes, I know that there are some items that are taxed by 5 percent... if you promise me, Secretary of State, that you will not list them, I will not do it either, but I have collected them on purpose. [[Deficit from the LMP lines.]] [[15.20]] My other question is, on the basis of what professional arguments it was decided that while some basic foods, such as UHT milk, fall within a 5% VAT range, vegetables and fruit are not included in this category. I would like to emphasise this very professionally: what professional arguments were behind this? What was the basis for deciding whether a particular product should fall within the range of 5% or 27%, especially if both are basic foods? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, that's what things look like from Downtown or Castle District. To attack the fact that the Hungarian government, the Parliament, is bringing the tax on new-built apartments down to 5%, it is simply incomprehensible, even from a opposition representative, because our apartment is our most basic need. In order to be able to start a family and have a proper existence, we have to have our own apartment, so the Hungarian people think. With this decision, the government will help families, with many other support to renovate, buy and expand their homes. This is what the attack on the tax exemption of home-cooked brandy looks like. I'd like to tell you that this looks different in the country. When some fruit trees are inherited from parents, or a young family may plant itself, the prunes, pears, apples, or cherries produced on them must be used. And since it is not always possible to consume it, it is the decade-old or centuries-old custom that has developed in Hungary to make brandy out of it. [[Intercoms, noise.]] As early as 2010, the government declared that it would fight to promote and exempt this tradition of Hungarian people. This fight has now been won, and from 2021 the home-cooked brandy, which is not marketed, is essentially exempt from tax, and it is made of fruit produced by itself. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the VAT of many basic foods is 5%, but since my time is over and I am not doing your bidding, I am not going to list this now, but I have one minute left, and I promise not to mention it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Your understanding of the text is extremely shocking, and I could say it's outrageous. You have failed to understand the question and you have failed to understand the problem that I was going to outline with the question being asked. We simply see you trying to explain the tax-free home brewing by having centuries of tradition. Mr Secretary of State, both lunch and dinner have centuries of tradition in this country, and I very much hope that this will remain so for a long time. I hope we do not argue that basic foods are more important to a family today than having some brandy on the table in the morning. Your answer, Mr Secretary of State, is shocking and unacceptable. My respectful request is that you respect me and the voters by answering the question, so you tell me what social policy objective is behind these decisions, and on what professional principles you have decided on a basic food to belong to the 5 per cent or 27 per cent VAT base in the future. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is difficult to achieve social policy objectives on an immediate basis in one or two minutes. However, it is possible to launch a political attack or answer to each other, and perhaps even necessary in Parliament. That's why you asked me, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a question. Why didn't your party vote over and over again to reduce the VAT on basic foods? And I'd like to list it here, if you don't mind. The pig's capital was not voted, the reduction in the VAT on poultrymeat was not voted from 27 percent to 5 percent, the reduction in the VAT on eggs was not voted. Honourable Congressman, First change your party, discuss why, when you were here before Parliament, you did not vote for this important social policy goal and then ask for your party's view of VAT reduction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Prime Minister Katalin Novák, Minister without a wallet for families, has given her the right to reply. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding, thank you very much. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, Earlier, the government undertook to provide the capital with the source of the new trolleys and trams, but this promise seems to have gone to nothing. However, in 19 districts in total, it would make life easier for more than 3 million people and create comfort in this acquisition. Moreover, this would be very cheap, as the current contract would allow the capital to obtain these vehicles at a 40 percent lower rate than the market price. Dear Madam Secretary, This cannot be a political or party issue, it is about the comfort and transport of 3 million people in Budapest and not in Budapest, as well as the comfort and transport of people with fidesz and non-fidesz. Since the government did not provide this source, the capital has prepared an extremely favourable agreement with the European Investment Bank. István Tarlós and the previous city administration, and even the government, had a similar bond. Since the law requires the government to approve this loan, but it does not do so, it also refuses the capital, so now it seems that this acquisition cannot take place. While they allowed Tarlos to do so, it seems that the people of Budapest are not allowed to do so. Dear Madam Secretary, What prevents this one signature, which would allow this very favourable loan, from using this project under these very favourable conditions, to purchase these trolleybuses and trams? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-11-02-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Minister Katalin Novak will answer your question. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, there are a number of decisions ahead of the Budapest leadership that they need to make, and I even claim that these are not easy decisions. It is necessary to think about the improvements they can make, what improvements they can make from their own resources, and what I would like to spend their own resources on at all. There has been a discussion between the capital and the government about the costs that even the government is prepared to assume, which are the programs, projects, developments that the government is willing to undertake not only to ensure its coverage, but also to guarantee that these improvements will then be implemented properly. These negotiations, as far as I know, continue to take place with more or less success. In any case, as has been the case, we are still open to any such negotiation. Let us recall that since 2010, the government has taken over 375 billion forints of debt from the budget in Budapest in the last ten years, so the government has already tried to help with the burdens of Budapest. This means that if the government helps, the Hungarian people will help the people of Budapest. The capital's business tax revenues increased from HUF 85 billion to HUF 164 billion, and, I understand, the capital is currently at the disposal of nearly HUF 28 billion and HUF 135 billion of sovereign debt, so there is money in their budget. The Hungarian government has also undertaken negotiations on this in recent days, and we have made it clear that we will take over HUF 60 billion of urban development programmes from Budapest if they so wish. This includes the conversion of the quays, the extension of the tram in Buda, the Gellert-hegy shuttle and similar programs. [[15.30]] As well as Budapest is the only municipality that receives support from the government for the operation of public transport. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So we will try to help Budapest and Budapest with all the existing tools in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-92	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. For a moment, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear Madam Secretary, You didn't answer the question of what was the obstacle to signing. The claim that Budapest has money for this is, as you know, not true, that the money that Budapest has is to finance existing projects and to finance future projects, the capital would be irresponsible if it spent these funds in advance. During such negotiations, the capital has received the promise to provide the source of the new electricity and trolleybus acquisitions, these negotiations may seem unnecessary if these promises are subsequently not fulfilled by the government. As for the 60 billion-dollar transfer, Madam Secretary, in October 2019, Budapesters did not vote for Fidesz to decide what investments and whom to make in the capital. The Budapesters voted that the new Budapest city leadership will decide where and what they want to develop. Be kind, stick to this, and my question remains what prevents the capital from receiving this supportive signature. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So you can buy these new trolleys and trams for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-02-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to the secretary. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-11-02-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Speaking of elections and the mandate of voters, as I recall, and please confirm this is the third time in 2018 we have been given a two-thirds mandate to form a government and make government decisions. As far as I know, no one can legitimately dispute that from us. I was talking about government decisions. As far as I know, we continue to have the opportunity, on behalf of the government, to make the decisions ourselves, thanks to the mandate of the electorate. As far as this particular issue and the concrete decision are concerned, we will not be partners in making Budapesters indebted, and through this Hungary will be indebted and indebted. Indeed, we are not partners in this, and we generally do not believe that any investment should be financed through debt. That is what our position is about, and in your words, I hope that the leadership of the capital will not be irresponsible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-96	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: - How is the investigation of the Erzsébetváros electricity theft? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister Károly Kontra has asked for a reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[On Dr. István Bajkai's signal:]] Thank you very much, the Member indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman István Bajkai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, We've all been informed from the press that the investigative bodies have been conducting a search of the VII. In the building of the district municipality, the right-hand man of Mayor Péter Niedermüller, the confidential member of the Parliament of Lajos Oláh DK, the president of DK in Erzsébetváros, President of the Committee on Finance and District Development, Tamás Borka-Szász in the operation of a secret bitcoinbánya. Tamás Borka-Szász resigned his representative, party membership and became unavailable within a few hours after the reservation of the powerful server and computer devices. It is outrageous that the left will continue in Erzsébetváros where he left off in 2010. We have always known that the left finds the path of theft in a creative way, the theft is their tradition, because at the time, György Hunvald's Mayor of MSZP and the right-hand man of the committee president of SZDSZ lived the district's wealth in an ingenious way until the police capture ended their activities. However, the people of Elisabeth will not ask for this again. Although the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány would like to reduce the issue, it is a very serious case, since the DK server was connected online to the dark web, the Internet, where terrorists, traffickers, drug smugglers, codebreakers and spies exchange money and information invisibly. We call on Péter Niedermüller and Lajos Oláh to confess: did they receive the stolen profits personally, or did they fund their own party with this invisible bitcoin money? Sadly, while the whole country is defending itself, the left is dealing with how it steals electricity and cheats. Operation of the server without safety equipment [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, it threatened the security and life of the municipal building and its residents, which, in addition to theft, further exacerbates this case. It is also possible to obtain government and government data through the secret server. In view of what has been said, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State [[Péter Ungár: 2 min. 24! Intercoms from the opposition.]] How is Elizabeth city electricity theft? [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Reconciliation of your case. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-98	Congressman [[Dr. István Bajkai: Excuse me.]] I would like to draw your attention to the time frame. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-02-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In recent days, it has been discovered that a very serious crime has been committed in the Erzsébetváros Municipality of Budapest, led by the Democratic Coalition. According to the news, the head of the district's DK group, who is also a programmer mathematician, illegally connected a cryptovaluator computer to the local government's network, all of which was suspected of stealing electricity from the local government in industrial quantities, thus also exposing the local government's IT network to international crime on the Internet. The illegal and unconventional computer was seen daily by many, including the mayor and the district's parliamentary representative, who regularly visited the office in question, and therefore the responsibility of the Democratic Coalition cannot be avoided. People rightly expect the representative of local public affairs and the local government acting in public matters to serve their interests and act legally, legally and ethically in its work. In the material case, the Budapest Police Headquarters VII. He's been reported for theft and other crimes at his precinct. According to the complaint, a machine engaged in bitcoin mining was found in the local government's office and was found to operate. The Criminal Code is 370. According to §2 of the Act, there was a suspicion of a misdemeanor of theft, the sentence of which could be a imprisonment of up to two years. This investigation is being conducted by the National Detective Bureau of the Alert Police. On 16 October 2020, a search was carried out in the local government's office with the help of the notary. During the course of the procedure, the National Bureau of Investigation carried out data backups and seized the computer concerned. Data collection was carried out during the research to identify additional relevant information to be interviewed as witnesses. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-101	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I, too, would like to emphasise once again that I believe that there is far more to this than simply stealing electricity in the building of the municipality. As I mentioned earlier, Tamás Borka-Szász, the right-hand man of Mayor Péter Niedermüller, led this office so to speak, as well as the confidant of the MP Lajos Oláh. It is also to be known, and it is also known that Tamás Borka-Szász supported both Péter Niedermüller and Lajos Oláh's campaign, actively participated in it, and, as the Secretary of State's reply shows, this Internet access may have compromised the security of government and municipal data, the operation of this server has endangered the building, which could have led to tragedy, and I would ask that the investigation be continued with an appropriate weight. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-02-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this serious matter up here in front of this House, because we represent the public interest here in Parliament, and it is important that Annex VII should be amended accordingly. to represent the interests of the people in the district and to thank the Member for speaking in the public interest. I would like to inform you that the investigation will cover the examination and investigation of all the circumstances which may be relevant to the findings of the historical facts and to the criminal classification of the offence committed. The investigating authority will take all possible and necessary investigative measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2020-11-02-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman László Földi, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister for Families an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman László Földi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP government, which was established in 2010, made it immediately clear at the beginning of its governance that the focus of its actions was on families. Hungary's Fundamental Law also laid down, and I quote: Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a man and a woman, a community of life formed by voluntary decision, and the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. The new family support system has been introduced, and later the family tax relief has been extended. The government has continuously expanded and extended the family support system according to Hungary's performance. In addition to the extremely successful family home creation discount, the 7-point family protection action plan was announced in 2019. Dear Madam Secretary, The coronal virus epidemic has put the Hungarian economy in a difficult position, but the austerity cannot be an alternative. For this reason, KDNP welcomed the fact that the Minister announced immediately that further elements of the family protection action plan were being developed. Many parts of this have already come to light in October. Perhaps the most important of these is the reduction of the VAT on newly built apartments to 5 percent, which leaves more than HUF 8 million in the family's pocket than a house of 50 million. Dear Madam Secretary, The KDNP fraction supports all measures that help Hungarian families. That is why I am asking, Minister: what new home-building preferences will Hungarian families receive in the future? I look forward to the Minister's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Katalin Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-11-02-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, First of all, let me thank all my fellow Members who support us in helping Hungarian families better than we knew before, because this is the strong objective of the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010 and we have been trying to expand our family support ever since. This is like building a house: we are constantly expanding the tools available to support families by building elements. This is to expand the scope of opportunities for those who are or are already raising children. Our strong objective is to prevent a young couple from having a family in Hungary from having to postpone their decision because they do not have the financial background to buy or build a single home and to create the conditions for raising children. This is what family tax breaks are really about, or this is what the return of the child's third year is all about, the family protection action plan, one of the important elements of which was that we introduced a baby shower support last year, thanks to which today a young couple will start with HUF 10 million, which they can spend on anything, and they will be free to use it, and they won't have to pay back if they have a big family in the decade ahead. So it offers an unprecedented opportunity for young couples. And that is what the home creation program is all about, which is now five years old, five years ago we introduced the CSOK, and since then we have been able to help more than 150,000 families, more than 600 thousand people, and a thousand billion forints of support for this 150,000 family. Now, not only are we expanding this home creation program, but we are introducing the biggest home creation program in Hungary's history. This is what the VAT reduction is about, the reduction of VAT to zero per cent by creating the possibility of VAT reclaiming, the exemption from tax for customers who are home to CSOK, or even the home renovation or attic construction program. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-108	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-109	Thank you for your reply, Madam Minister. I am pleased to hear that the Hungarian government is always and continuously expanding the home-building system of family support, and even now, under the auspices of the Crown Virus, according to the capacity of Hungary. I say this because I think it's important that my own children take advantage of these things and that my grandchildren can grow up under fair conditions, blessed with four children and six grandchildren. So I'm proud of these measures, and I like to promote this wherever possible, because the government can't take a bigger step, but we've done a lot already. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to the secretary. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-11-02-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear House, If we look at our adopted budget for next year, which you voted for, then there is already two and a half times the amount of money available to support families as it was in 2010. So not only have we doubled, we have increased the amount available to support families by two and a half times. If a young couple starts living together today, with the 10 million HUF baby shower support, they can receive the $10 million non-repayable CSOK, the 15 million HUF CSOK loan associated with it, so they have a margin of freedom that they didn't have before, and now they can buy their home free of charge from 1 January, and if they buy a new home with a CSOK, then they can do this with zero percent VAT. We have just submitted to Parliament our proposal amending the law on VAT reductions and tax exemptions. I also ask you, Member, and all my fellow Members to support this bill; your debate begins on Thursday, and I am counting on you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-112	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Attila Fülöp granted the right to reply. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-11-02-113	I'm honored by the Secretary of State's reply.
u2020-11-02-114	Thank you very much. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Last Monday, I turned to the EMMI with an immediate question, and Mrs Eszter Vitályos was the State Secretary. As a question, I asked him that he knew that a health focus had developed at the Darvast Institute, because at that time we knew about 102 caregivers and 30 caregivers who had a positive test, but the secretary of state said in her reply that she, EMMI, did not know about such a focal point, but that they would look into it. Since then, more than 200 residents and 54 employees have tested positive. Unfortunately, the wheels of the state machine are grinding slowly, one week after my speech, so Sunday the defences appeared to disinfect the area, the workers there are fighting heroin with the virus, they are fighting heroin every day. My question is this, Mr Secretary: do you personally agree that workers with positive tests can work in the institution, even if they only provide positive residents? This is also interesting, since Müller Cecília, a national chief of medicine, said that anyone who has such a test should stay at home and strengthen his immune system. How can you relax and strengthen your immune system while working? Those who remain at home positive workers receive the maximum amount of sick money, or have you planned that those who have a negative test and go to work will be screened daily with a rapid daily test before work, preventing them from becoming infected and passing it on to their employees or residents? And I'd also like to hear some more information about patients being infected at the Dakai Institute, which is responsible for the maintenance of SZGYF. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-11-02-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Attila Philip. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, before we get to the specific Veszprém County, I would also like to say a sentence about the national situation. We stand today with the virus that we have 1600 social institutions, nursing homes, disability homes, and 112 of them have the virus, so that means that 7 percent of the institutions have the virus. What we can tell you is that, nationwide, 93 out of 100 institutions are still missing, the virus hasn't been released. The other thing I would like to say on this point was that Darvasto and Daka asked, if I understand correctly, the Member. Today we look at 213 in the positive Darvasto, and Dáka has 8 people, if I understand correctly, that was the question. [[15.50]] In both places, it is important to know that Darvastó is a disabled institution, so that the professional treatment of the disabled institution and the elderly home is significantly different, so obviously the contamination is also completely different in an elderly home than in a disability home, and the situation in both institutions is that there is also contact with the epidemiological authority, the government office. He said chronology, Congressman, I must correct so much that the first diseases were confirmed here on 19 October, but not in bulk. Obviously, every institution will find out day by day when we receive data from NNK. So the first diseases were on October 19th, and the mass confirmation was on October 27th, and the military on the weekend disinfected one place, and the other was disinfected today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2020-11-02-119	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, He didn't calm me down about Daddy. Did you do 8 tests, or is there only 8 positives in the entire institute? Then my next question is, when are they gonna start testing the entire institutional system? Be it the lesencetomaji, where so far only 12 tests have been performed, or, say, the dicks. But you didn't answer me about the people who tested positive. I would like to tell you that the legislation states that if a medical worker is clinically cured or has an asymptomatic infection with Covid-19, two negative tests are required to return to work and direct patient care; the prohibition of employment should be lifted without two negative test results on the 21st day following the onset/infectious sampling. So right now, they're working there with a positive test that legislation doesn't allow that, although the SAO has given them such permission. Do you agree, Mr Secretary, that the legislation I have read now also applies to him, so to the employer? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-02-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just told you, but I'll say it again: Dákan is 8 people positive, otherwise this is a 70-person institution we're talking about, but it's obviously changing from day to day how many of them are just positive in which institution, just as fortunately they're healing. The questions before the agenda here have been raised several times and several times today as to how testing is justified, how many times it is done and what the consequences are. Once again, I would like to emphasise that testing is an epidemiological issue in which the epidemiological authority has a word, and otherwise the establishment and implementation of testing is based on standards of a type prepared by professionals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is 15:53 a.m. and according to our derogation from the regulations adopted, the government has the opportunity to replace the Prime Minister and the ministers in the second half of the immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, who is lying? What are the consequences of this? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Today, for influenza vaccination, if we are to submit it, the profession and the SAO believe that the early autumn is the best time. If we go up to the website of the ÁNTSZ and various professional groups, it can be found that the most appropriate moment to submit the vaccine is early autumn, since protection is needed for two or three weeks. The profession says that at the end of November this vaccination should eventually be given to residents who so require. You have announced that nearly 1 million 400 thousand vaccines are available in Hungary, 1 million 300 thousand three-components, 100 thousand four-component vaccines. They asked the population, absolutely rightfully, that whoever could do it should be vaccinated, and even Prime Minister was at the forefront, and among the first to use the free vaccine in Hungary and had been vaccinated. However, the Hungarian people are not prepared to think responsibly about the epidemic and start injecting this influenza vaccine, and there will be a lot more people looking for this vaccine than many years before. There are currently 6506 GPs filled and about 560 GPs unfilled. If we divide this 1 million 400,000 vaccine, we'll have 215 per GP area, and I won't talk about the unfilled GP districts. It is irresponsible, which you communicate every day, and even Prime Minister has announced on Friday that 360,000 vaccines will certainly be sufficient to re-order the vaccine. Meanwhile, the profession is lying to the Prime Minister because they claim that it is no longer possible to obtain a vaccine this year. How long are you going to keep lying? Why don't you stand up and say, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That there's a million 400,000 vaccines? And what I have to ask is, have you done a primary survey this summer on how many people are going to require vaccination this year? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-02-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I regret the second half of the question, because it is basically an important issue and a professional matter, but I must reject your claim about lying. The situation is that, on the recommendation of the epidemiological experts and the operational staff, the government has decided to make influenza vaccination available free of charge not only for the most vulnerable social groups, but also for everyone who wishes to live with it. Accordingly, influenza vaccines were also obtained: more than twice as many vaccines were purchased as needed last year, representing 1 million 400 thousand vaccines. The fact is, Congresswoman, it is true that, in view of the increased demand, the government has decided to purchase another 360,000 vaccines. The treatment of general medical practices with vaccines is ongoing, as soon as the vaccine runs out, additional requirements may be required. The acquisition has also been resolved, contrary to what you mentioned, and the production has also been resolved. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is a Hungarian vaccine factory in Pilisborosyenő, which also complies with international-type obligations, so that, for example, NATO is also being supplied with this vaccine and a new vaccine factory is also being built in Debrecen. We think that, given that the flu season is essentially due for January-February, no one is late. We'd like to ask all of you to inject yourselves with the flu vaccine, there'll be enough vaccines in the GPs. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-127	Mr. Secretary. I don't know how you get a double dose. Then I would like to read a 2019 entry from the website of the ÁNTSZ: like in recent years, 1.3 million free vaccines are available in Hungary for influenza vaccinations for those in risk groups. The 1.3 million are now 1.3 million plus 100,000 of the four-components that children under the age of three can get and suffer from severe illness. That's 1.3 million isn't twice as much as 1.3 million, I think. The other question is that between 700 and 800 thousand people filed every year, and all the others had to be thrown out. And you know it's false again, you're lying because the profession says...
u2020-11-02-128	Congresswoman!
u2020-11-02-129	...that it takes about six months for the profession to produce another vaccine. They can't make you snap your fingers or click on them like you did at the webshop, and then we'll get vaccines! This is more serious than that. Mr. Secretary. I'm telling you, it's very right to draw attention to [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To get everyone vaccinated, but that's 1.3 million isn't 2.6 million, Mr. Secretary of State. And stop now, say specifically that there will be no more vaccines. Thank you, Mr. President. [[16.00]]
u2020-11-02-130	Congresswoman, tempers are not good advisors. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Not for advice...]] Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2020-11-02-131	Thank you for the floor. Congresswoman! Then it is a question of one million 300 thousand vaccines available last year, of which about 50-60 percent have been used in recent years. So compared to the more vaccines we ordered, more than twice as many vaccines are available. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But how?]] And we're also ordering extra vaccine. Congresswoman, count: if 600,000 people were vaccinated last year, [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: This is irresponsible what you say!]] And this year, 1.4 million people have the opportunity to inject in the first round, so how many times the numbers? I'm sorry, Congresswoman, but we shouldn't go to the heights of Lajos Korózs. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Come on!]] So those of you who have been lying in this House for the past few months and entertaining the worthy with camuvides instead of helping to protect against the epidemic are you. So I'd like to ask you to return to the profession and leave these fake news industries. Thank you very much. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 1.3 million is 1.3 million! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-132	Congresswoman! I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary never yelled at me once while you said it. Because the mask is up, I can hear you screaming all the time. I'm asking you very nicely to refrain from this kind of attitude. Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "How many more people have to die?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Attila Philip granted the right to reply. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-133	I accept, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am amazed at the partial amnesia of the government, as we hear every minute that it has been eight years, but somehow they forget that in 2008 Hungarians were still quite satisfied with the health issue. Hungary was 12th in the ranking of the health system in the European countries, which was obviously based on the survey of the country and based on the opinion of the users of the services, thus preventing Ireland, Italy, Spain or even Portugal. They no longer like to say that according to the 2018 report, only Romania's health has proved more miserable than ours in the whole European Union. Although they deny that health expenses have fallen below 7 percent of GDP under your governance. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Whatever you're doing with your hundred billion-dollar propaganda, you're the ones who ruined the Hungarian health care system. We managed to bring together the level of hospital infections that if someone goes to the hospital, they often come out sicker than they go in, even if they come out at all. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Style is man.]] Let's name the child: every year, a series of people die, who could have been rescued by proper medical treatment. Doctors, workers, in the hope of making a living, in England, Germany, Norway, Sweden, God knows where they've fled, and according to every survey, your recent law on health care services is just going to speed this up. Half a thousand GP practices are unfilled, our hospitals are in ruins, and the patient should take not only medicine, bandages, toilet paper, but also a doctor and nurse with him. Secretary of State, you promised to treat everyone who gets infected. Today, 70 patients died again. Are not enough people still dying to finally do something in Hungarian health care? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Attila Philip, Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, give me one sentence as an introduction. The satisfaction of the Hungarian people in 2008 with the health situation and the state of the country, I think that the 2010 election showed perfectly. Let me say this to you again, because you are sitting in that place, in the opposition on the left: this happened before 2010, the children's hospital in Swabby, the National Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology, the Szabolcs Street Hospital or the closure of Schöpf-Merei, then 600 billion HUF was withdrawn from health care. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] In the last ten years, there has been HUF 915 billion more in healthcare than there was in 2010. (Lőrinc Nacsa: That's right!) The fact is that based on the OECD data, it is not even possible to say that Hungarian data or the KSH per capita health expenditure decreased in Hungary between 2003 and 2009 alone in the whole OECD and that between 2010 and 2018 we had the seventh highest growth rate among EU Member States. And I would also like to mention to Congressman what infrastructure development has been made in recent years: 91 rural hospitals, 54 clinics, 107 rescue stations, and 23 new clinics, 34 new rescue stations have been renovated for more than HUF 500 billion. What I can tell you is that the facts do support the fact that since 2010 there has been a significant increase in resources for health care. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Varga. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-137	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You don't have to argue with me, you have to argue with the current situation around us, the epidemic. For ten years, they have been fighting with the demons and phantoms created by you, and now that you're facing a real crisis, they just seem helpless. It is quite clear that the epidemic is out of control and that no appropriate measures will be taken at all. We see that the number of new diseases is six times the number of the spring, and the mortality rate is something amazing. The number of tests is ridiculously low, and the sixth part of this ridiculously low number is unfortunately positive. We can see that they didn't order enough flu shots, but we have tens of thousands of ventilators that are now trying to pin it on someone because they simply ordered them in a pointless way. The testing capacity has not been increased, and rather articles have been written in which you can read that otherwise it would destroy the country. In the meantime, we see that Slovakia can do this. Mr. Secretary, believe me, there is no honor in the mundane you're trying to protect. But let alone the mundane has no honor, but neither you nor the government. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-138	Thank you very much. [[Nacsa to Lőrinc Varga to Zoltán: Where is the helmet?]] A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Zoltán Varga to Lőrinc Nacsa: Come on, I'll give you one.]] Congressman! I think it will be the third time this afternoon, but I would like to say it again because there is a rather serious correlation between repetition and knowledge: so, Hungary is not in the wrong place in the number of people who have passed away to one million inhabitants, if you look at the EU average, it is twice the country's average, and it is located east and west of us in countries with twice, three times, four times or five and a half times the country's average in Belgium. So even though they will say this repeatedly within the walls of Parliament, this false statement will not be true. The second question is what the government has done to control the epidemic: we have also talked a lot about it, it has taken a lot of measures since March, it has also tabled laws that you have not supported in Parliament, and you have been the ones who have not provided any assistance in order to control it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Who takes care of the caregivers?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, In view of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Attila Fülöp granted the right to reply. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-141	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The thing is, when you came to government, the average social worker's income was 70 percent of the median income, which is now 40 percent. So before you tell me the panel that's written in your paper for a 110-percent raise, think about how less than half of what social workers are looking for is the average salary for the national economy, and that's your responsibility. It has been recognised recently, and you have just acknowledged the incredible work that social workers do in an epidemic situation by being responsible for the most vulnerable, since you have said that 112 institutions and social institutions have the coronal virus. Nevertheless, they cannot provide a sane Hungarian argument as to why they do not receive the one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement, which they deserve as well as the healthcare workers rightly received. Ferenc Gyurcsány is not an argument, but a personal name. The thing is, you've been governing for ten years, so it would be nice to say that the 45 billion, which is less than the MotoGP course in Hajdú County, are not given to the Hungarian people who are doing one of the most beautiful jobs for the worst salary, with a special burden now. [[16.10]] MKSZ collected what social workers would spend this one-time HUF 500,000. They said things like buying new glasses, getting their teeth fixed, or going on vacation with their children for the first time in three years. These are the things that these employees would spend this one-time $500,000 on, which you simply won't give me because you have constantly forgotten about the social sector over the past ten years. The fact is, if you still forget the social sector by 12 November, the social sector will remember you in the elections in 2022. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government Minister, Attila Philip, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the beginning, allow it only because you often ask us questions about social matters and are sensitive to this area, but I think that the appreciation for workers in this area begins when we talk about real data about what is going on in this area. Several times, I hear the comparison that there was 70 percent of the average salary in the national economy in 2010 and 40 percent today. The truth is that the average wage in 2010 was 137 thousand forints in the social field. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] And today it's nearly 300,000 forints. The average salary in the national economy in 2010 was 202,000 HUF, so it is right that it was 70 percent then, and today the average salary in the national economy was 406 thousand HUF in gross terms. So, let alone grow these scissors, but they're down. It's statistical, it's easy to look at. I know you like to use the statistics where the wages of social workers are with the wages of the public workers, but that's not good, because that's another area. So, if you only look at who works in the social field, the fact is that in the last ten years, wages have increased by nearly 120 percent, which represents a higher wage increase than the national economy average. I think it's important to clarify that. As well as that: the fact that the government would have forgotten the area, every year since 2010 there has been a wage increase in this area. It is clear that this is an area where everyone who has relatives or knows the area says that they would give all the money in the world to care well for their close relatives, so obviously there is an emotional side to this, and on the other side there is a budgetary aspect. Thank you very much for now. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-145	Well, let's get some data I pulled from the EMMI website, so hopefully there won't be any debate. 78 percent of social workers receive wage equivalent to the guaranteed minimum wage. I hope that you will accept this statement and I hope that you will accept that this is a serious problem. You say that social workers do not work for money, they work for dedication. That's right, these people work out of dedication, but now they've created a situation where they can't do their dedicated business because of money. You have to pay the rent, you have to give money for schooling children! The worst part of your words, for example, was that they would always say this 14 percent increase they made to social workers before the coronal virus epidemic. You know perfectly well that 8 percent of this came from an annual increase in the minimum wage, so the salary of social workers increased 6 percent, which is HUF 9,000 for the average worker. So, when you say that this has increased annually, you know that in most years it has been nominally below 10,000 forints. So don't magicate with the numbers, just give me the one time [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Five hundred thousand forints!
u2020-11-02-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the last sentence, let me continue to see what magic is going on. This year, the 14 percent average was 30 thousand forints. [[Péter Ungár: No.]] not ten thousand forints. So that meant 30,000 forints, we told you that before. The fact is that everyone in the social field has a gross wage and there is an additional supplement, which is not the shift allowance, it is not the evening allowance, but everyone gets the supplement. The two together represent someone's income, and the fact is that in this respect there has been an increase every year in the last ten years. And the fact that it happened before the outbreak this year, I think it proves exactly that we will not forget the people in the area. When you mention the day of social work, it is also the day of social work that has been introduced by this government, otherwise, on that day, providing workless days for workers in the area for whom this is possible. This could have been done before 2010, but it just happened. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Which I think is symbolic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What is going on?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, In view of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Károly Kontra was entitled to reply. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, what measures is the government planning to take to facilitate the work of municipalities? I would also like to ask this question because the question is very justified, because in recent months it has been seen that the Orbán government has been very creative in how to draw funds from local authorities and how to invest more and more tasks on them. I think that the objective was quite obvious: to make opposition self-governments impossible. On the government side, however, you should not forget that the opposition cities produce more than 50% of Hungary's total GDP. So, when restrictions are imposed, when they want to make it hard for the municipalities to do things, they practically destroy the country's production potential itself. So this kind of local government mutilation is also self-mutilation. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, that you agree that half of the European Union's defence money should go directly to the municipalities, given that they are involved in both the production of goods and the control of the epidemic at least in this proportion. And would you agree that the result of the local referendums initiated by the Association of Free Cities should also be binding on the government, so that the government accepts this and that these resources should be distributed accordingly? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that the key to the success of the fight against the epidemic is compliance with the rules of masking. We're tightening up from today because we need to tighten it up. The use of masks is mandatory in addition to shops and public transport facilities in cinemas, theatres, shopping centers, health and social institutions, customer reception offices, open-air events, sports events, restaurants and entertainment venues. So far, the police have provided information, and now they will strictly control and punish those who break the rules of masking. From today a new world began, so far the policeman has helped, explained and asked for it, and should be punished from today. The police will control and control the obligation to use masks to entertain places, restaurants and sports events. In the event of a violation, the penalty can be up to HUF 1 million, or you can close the shops. The police therefore have the right to close the restaurant or shop, suggesting the closure of cultural events. I can assure you, honourable Member, that the police will do and will carry out this task. As far as the municipalities are concerned, I would like to thank the municipalities who have really taken part in the fight against the virus, because this is in the public interest, so to speak: this is a national interest, but we find that, with the term you use, left-wing authorities or the so-called free authorities are building trenches and not seeking cooperation. I do not agree with the proposals raised by you, as in the last ten years, the Government of Hungary has relieved the municipalities of nearly HUF 1,400 billion in debt, and in the year 2020 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In addition, the budget provides the municipalities with 16 percent higher funding than in 2019. [[16.20]] So your proposals are unfounded, and we cannot accept them. I ask you to draw the attention of the so-called free authorities that you represent to your part of the defense. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-152	Thank you very much. For a one-minute rejoinder, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellar. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We agree on one thing: we really need central measures, because without them, we can't do it. However, how much public assistance, especially the public assistance to be provided, is effective for the municipalities, in terms of which we Pécs have negative experience, since in 2014, when the debt was settled, the Pécs municipality was able to re-acquire HUF 20 billion in debt between 14-19, because they were tagged money, they are exactly the same as the government now gives the University of Pécs HUF 5.7 billion. But this HUF 5.7 billion cannot be used freely, but must be transferred directly to the construction company of Lőrinc Mészáros because the construction costs have increased. So I wanted to ask you to have such a sharing [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] that the municipalities can decide for themselves what they want to spend on. My apologies for overshooting, I'm sorry.
u2020-11-02-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-11-02-155	Honourable Congressman, I think that, based on your earlier work, this statement or this comment is not a valid comment, because you don't really think it's the right thing to do. Let me tell you a big difference. In 2010, the municipalities were in a position to take over a debt transfer package, as I said, HUF 1400 billion. In 2010, the Municipality of Budapest left hundreds of billions of HUF in debt to the new leadership, István Tarlós, and now, when the new Mayor of Budapest took over the city after 13 October 2019, he took over more than 165 billion HUF by bus. That's the difference between you and us. By the way, voters say that the left can make things worse, and the right can build, and Fidesz can. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is the difference between us, honourable Member. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that, due to the absence of the Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the State Secretary the right to reply. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We had to wait a tough two years for the Bar to suspend the membership of Ferenc Gyurcsány's six-billion-dollar lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, who was dependent on public money by the left-wing authorities. This could have happened by the time he was prosecuted in a criminal organisation, especially for the crime of fiscal fraud to a significant extent. The law provides the Chamber with discretion as to the suspension of membership when a practicing lawyer is accused of a crime threatened with five years of imprisonment or more. I would add that in such a case, a normal lawyer voluntarily suspends his membership and activity. Czeglédy responded to the suspension with a desperate rage. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. Nacsa Lőrinc: How are you protecting him?]] He spoke ill of the president of the Chamber, spoke of a conceptual suit, and even announced that he would continue his career as a shy lawyer. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Criminal! The president's ringing the bell.]] The left, of course, is now covered in deep silence. It is absurd that the left, ringing daily the alarm bells of the rule of law, continues to be the lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány in Melengeti, who has also damaged the most defenseless groups of society in addition to the state. It is a shame that the office of the tax fraud lawyer is being held by the left-wing authorities with public funds by concluding contracts of the magnitude of millions. In view of what has been said, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State that a suspended lawyer may perform any task in the local government. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, it took a long time for the Bar Association to finally suspend Csaba Czeglédy's membership of the Chamber. This officially means that it must not engage in any future legal activity in the municipality or elsewhere. Of course, it is reasonable to expect that a lawyer who has already been convicted of tax fraud, forgery of private documents, breach of accounting discipline and other crimes, currently charged with a budget fraud of HUF 6 billion in criminal organizations, will not be used by anyone, especially by the municipalities. You couldn't hire me because a lawyer who's being prosecuted can't basically practice if he's disqualified. On the left, however, none of this matters. If someone is a friend of Ferenc Gyurcsány's, it doesn't matter what crimes he committed earlier. They did everything to protect Czeglédy, who received loans from the company of the fallen Prime Minister. They even put him on their European Parliament list so that he could be removed from criminal proceedings by hiding behind immunity. By the way, the moral standards of the Gyurcsánys are well characterised by the fact that Péter Niedermüller, the VII. The DK mayor of the district said that he would never, ever, ever allow anyone in the municipality to steal or commit any illegal acts, who, despite everything, would immediately divorce and then enter into a contract with a member of a law firm in criminal proceedings. In his reply to my colleague Gyula Budai, the Mayor of DK, now defends himself with the ridiculous argument that he did not contract with Czeglédy, but with his lawyer's office, that he would not pay the lawyer a commission fee. We cannot ignore the fact that not only the municipality of Erzsébetváros, but the municipality of Novi Sad also provided the home lawyer of Gyurcsány with busy orders. It's practically connected. One day, they pay a criminal lawyer, the next day they steal electricity based on bitcoin mining. What does Csaba Czeglédy know that they're paying him that much money? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the answer, I accept that. However, we are still awaiting statements from the mayors concerned as to how much longer they will continue to operate this money pump in connection with the Czeglédy Office. In this regard, as Mr Secretary of State said, my fellow Member, Dr. Gyula Budai, asked two Mayors in Budapest a written question: Péter Niedermüller and Imre László. He wanted to know, and that's what we're waiting for when these contracts will be terminated with Czeglédy's office. How long can we continue to see it, and how long do we have to tolerate it not only here in Parliament, but also for all Hungarians, that they will continue to run the money pump that moves to Csaba Czeglédy's office, supported by the left? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-162	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is a very interesting phenomenon that, in general, a lawyer is employed to ensure that legality can be observed by entrusting these cases to a person in the municipality who has committed crimes or is in criminal proceedings with these municipalities, which are led by DK. But a bird about his pen, a man about his friend, a party lawyer, if we want to go on saying the folk saying, or, well, we can go on going again, just according to what the left says, comrade, help the downtrodden. [[Delight and applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What do the authorities do to comply with the rules on masking? It's an address. [[16.30]] Honourable Congressman. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply. It is now for Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-165	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Today, in the fight against the pandemic, we are now in the second wave, which is raging with renewed force across Europe. Today, preserving lives is our priority, as is the maintenance of the country's viability, and the Fidesz-KDNP government, with all its decisions, seeks to achieve these two goals. Meanwhile, left-wing politicians are constantly trying to stop the government from defending itself against the virus, making more absurd statements and even having the energy to make more and more fake videos or even provoke believers for the cross of Müller Cecília. Dear Secretary of State, In the midst of all these provocations, we, the Fidesz-KDNP, strive to ensure that individual responsibility, joint responsibility, and the responsibility of the authorities determine the defence today. Unfortunately, the number of coronal viral infections is increasing every day, more and more new cases are confirmed by laboratory tests, and the number of people in need of hospitalisation is increasing. Therefore, individual responsibility, mask use, adequate distance and frequent hand washing are crucial. Mask wear is proven to prevent almost 80 percent transmission of the virus. However, those who do not wear it and may not comply with the rules play irresponsiblely with the health of others. At present, from the age of six, mask usage is mandatory in addition to shops and public transport facilities in cinemas, theatres, shopping centers, health and social institutions, customer reception offices, open-air events, sporting events, restaurants and entertainment venues. Dear Secretary of State, While Fidesz-KDNP is fighting for the benefit of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian left did not vote for the relevant restrictive provisions. [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] They did not support the extension of the extraordinary legal order in the spring, nor did they vote for the Crown Virus Act. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking what the authorities are doing about wearing a mask. [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] In order to comply with the rules. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-02-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The key to the success of the fight against the epidemic is to comply with the rules of masking. We're tightening up from today because we need to tighten it up. Therefore, the government's regulation requires, among other things, the use of masks in addition to shops and public transport, in cinemas, theatres, shopping centres, health and social institutions, customer reception offices, outdoor events and sporting events, as well as in catering and entertainment venues. As regards controls, a new world begins today: the policeman has helped, explained and asked for it, but from now on he must be punished, because he who does not wear the mask does not only play with his own health, but also with others. Defensive is a shared responsibility, everyone's part of it. The police will check and verify the obligation to use masks extended to entertainment venues, catering venues and sports events. In the event of a violation, you can impose a fine of up to a million HUF, or you can close the deal. The police therefore have the right to close the restaurant, to close the shops where they do not comply with the rules, to propose and to close cultural events. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I can assure you that the police, the police of Hungary, are also carrying out this task, its common goal, our common goal, the government's aim is to protect Hungarian people. We'll make it together. We are confident that by complying with these new rules, these strict rules, we will achieve our common goal of protecting the Hungarian people. Thank you for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-169	Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank you for your reply. The national consultation has already shown that, among the different levels and forms of joint defence, the citizens support masking to the highest extent in the spirit of responsible protection. The importance of this is also stressed by epidemiological experts at all times. Since spring, there has been a great deal of experience in diseases, one of the most important defences against which, perhaps even the least unpleasant, is masking itself. The Christian Democratic People's Party also fully agrees with the tightening of the rules in this situation. I ask the government to continue to enforce the rules. Thank you.
u2020-11-02-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We trust that citizens will understand and comply with the importance of tightening the rules on masking in their own interests. And I can also promise that, through their control activities, the authorities will contribute to the implementation of these strict rules, because we believe that in order to combat the second wave of the new type of coronal virus, compliance with the rules adopted is the most important, public interest, national interest, that we can stop the spread of the virus and protect Hungarian people. And if we find that these strict rules of masking are not being observed, we must enforce them by force. We trust that together, in cooperation with the authorities, citizens will comply with these rules and we can protect the Hungarian people. Thank you for your immediate question of drawing attention to this very important rule in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Millions." It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Attila Philip granted the right to reply. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, When our Fidesz fellow Members enjoyed two weeks ago that brutally large fines of HUF 600,000 would not apply to those violating the masking rule, only to those violating the quarantine rule, everyone was still confident, and everyone thought that the situation would be all right. Today, it turns out that this is not true: from this day forward, Hungarian citizens can be punished for a million forints, as well as the shops where they experience this can be closed for a year. This is an interesting turn of events for Fidesz MEPs, especially considering that we all remember the words of Gulyás Gergely, who said about the coronal virus epidemic, that in fact we, who are present in this room, even if the ladies are ageless, can safely infect each other, with the symptoms of an unpleasant flu at most if someone is not sick anyway. Muller Cecília from the mask, by the way, said he knew about the mask that was now said to be punished for a million forints if someone didn't wear it, so he said, in the spring, wearing a mouth mask that creates a false illusion of immunity is even harmful. In fact, he said it alone was not enough to keep us safe, because wearing a mask would not stop the spread of the plague. It seems that Wolf Watch, a spokesman for government propaganda, took this statement seriously, for at the Fradi game he was self-king in the box without a mask. Compared to this, Viktor Orbán has been saying in recent days that masking depends on the control of the epidemic, and even says that everyone's individual responsibility is what will become of the epidemic, even though he should be the one to defend himself. What were you really supposed to do? Free masks should have been given to all citizens from masks imported into Hungary for tons, instead of national consultation, or they would have been able to put masks in every household if it was so important to wear them. It's important to wear it. But it's clear you're looking to fine people to follow the rules. Orbán will do this by letting the virus dictate the pace most spectacularly throughout Europe, and we will not be able to do so, either by domestic hospitals, suppliers or ultimately by the people. The question is, Mr. Secretary of State: how much money do you intend to collect from the Hungarian people out of fines? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-02-174	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The answer will be given by Secretary of State Attila Philip. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2020-11-02-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His last sentence was that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, or the Hungarian government, did not deal with the epidemic or leave the affected parties alone. A lot of statistics have been said here in the last few hours as to why this statement is not real and why it is not true. The fact is that the epidemiological measures taken by the government and voted in favour of Parliament, with the exception of the left-wing opposition, were precisely intended to have a continuous order of how to deal with the epidemic from March onwards. The present part is about trusting in the responsible attitude that everyone can make in order to control this epidemic, an important element of which is that everyone is now wearing masks. A new era is happening from today because now we want to not only ask for it, but there is a penalty behind it for everyone to respect it. It's up to all of us, ten million people, how much we can isolate this epidemic, how much we can keep it quarantined, how much we can protect everyone's health and life. Mr Kontra, Mr Secretary of State, has just explained exactly why this came into force from 2 November, why it came into force, that it is mandatory to wear a mask at catering venues and entertainment venues. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Western European countries, which really seem to be taking more drastic measures, are doing so because they have not been able to stop it until then, and, in the context of the drastic measures that we are taking, they are actually expected to stop the epidemic. But for now, we see that if the measure taken is not complied with, one step must be taken to ensure that the measure taken is respected. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-177	Thank you very much. We can certainly agree on one thing: it is important that everyone wears a mask. Not so long ago, I had a debate with Viktor Orbán on this issue in this very House. He told me to remind him that I can't guarantee the Hungarians that there will be enough protective masks in the country. It seems that Viktor Orbán can guarantee in return that, on the other hand, everyone will receive it on a fine, and people will get it against masks. To be clear, the correct solution, Mr Secretary of State, would be to promote a wide-ranging use of masks, to keep this a good example from the outset, and to carry out extensive testing. If that's not the case, then let the virus dictate the pace, the pace we won't be able to handle. Dear Secretary of State, One last question, since you failed to answer that question: how many fines do you intend to collect from people this fall? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-02-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Secretary of State Attila Philip. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-02-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You're thinking of fines, and we're thinking of stopping the plague. Therefore, the measure was taken to draw everyone's attention now to the serious and serious need to take this measure and to comply with it; as from March onwards there were different stages and different levels of infection of this virus, different measures were taken. So I can continue to say that this is a necessary measure, and we hope that society will become a partner in this and will abide by it for its own protection. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-02-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. When will the government respond effectively to the situation that has arisen? It's an address. Madam Member, because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The government proudly proclaims that at the end of the summer there were more people working than in January. That sounds good, but it's far from the whole truth. Without a correct mapping of the damage, a successful crisis management is hardly possible. The labour market has natural fluctuations, more people typically work in the summer months than in the winters, and data should therefore be cleaned of seasonal effects. Compared to 3.2 million people in June last year, the number of employees decreased by 192,000, and this loss came out with the total number of full-time workers falling by 335 thousand in one year, with a minimum of 60 hours but not full-time workers increasing by 142 thousand. Thus, in working hours, the decline may be up to a further 100,000. The announced, but far from the German sample, Kurzarbeit programme has therefore made its impact in the statistical series, but it is known that two thirds of the Hungarian population are unable to correct an unexpected expenditure, so it cannot even correct the sudden loss of their job in an income sense. Otherwise, these people will contribute to the shortage of demand and to the negative economic spiral that will eventually affect all of us in Hungary. In September, the second wave of the epidemic exploded, and according to the rapid report of the HCSO, the number of people employed again decreased by 32,000 compared to August. The problem is, therefore, once again, that this 32,000 people should have appeared in the increase in job seekers, but instead the number of jobseekers decreased by 21,000 in a month, at least according to the government's statements. Mr Secretary of State, I am always in the position to face the problem. So I respectfully ask you when you want to respond to the situation. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-11-02-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, let us be clear that you have raised your question to the wrong Ministry, as from 1 January 2020 the Minister for Innovation and Technology will be responsible for employment policy. But I'm honored that you're looking for a solution to employment with the Minister of Finance. However, I think that if you had actually read through the statistical report on employment and unemployment on 29 October, you might not have asked that question. Indeed, it is as you say: employment peaked in August, more than 4.5 million people worked, thanks to seasonal effects and 35 thousand fewer jobs in September. However, if we compare this, I think that this should not be a disgrace to the government, because on the one hand, the number of public workers has decreased and, on the other hand, the number of workers working abroad has decreased. The activity rate of the 15-64-year-old population increased by 0.7 percentage points to 73.5 percent in one year. The same figure is 75.5 per cent for the 20-64-year-old population, which exceeds 75 per cent as defined in the European Union strategy. Unemployment has indeed increased in one year and stands at 4.4 percent, which, taking into account the crisis, even when comparing EU figures, is very positive. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anett. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-185	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. Mr Sándor Bodó, Minister of State, spoke about the same issues about a week ago. I think it is always worth talking to another ministry about the same problem, because I think that the two ministries are responsible for economic strategy planning together. But I'm also trying to answer the details in half a minute, which is what's left. Mr Secretary of State mentioned those working abroad and those employed in the public sector. I have always argued that they should not be classified as employees, that the wages of the public workers are simply far from desirable, and that those working abroad do not strike in the Hungarian national economy, either on the demand side or on the taxation side. So that's how we cheat ourselves. I ask you, what about those who, for example, were forced to take unpaid leave during quarantine, there is a need to do something about them, and also that the Hungarian unemployment allowance is extremely short, thus increasing the risk of the crisis. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-11-02-186	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.50]]
u2020-11-02-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Raising the time and amount of unemployment benefit is a very old debate between us. We don't think that's the solution. It is not a solution to encourage people to stay at home and to receive an even greater benefit for a longer period of time in order not to seek employment and not to try to work on the labour market. These figures, which I have just presented, demonstrate that the government's strategy is good, that the new job support system is good, and that the support system for jobs is good, and that the reduction of the social contribution tax by 2 percentage points also contributes to better employment data. By the way, thanks to government measures, 900 000 people have already received some form of labour market training or other support. This also fully justifies the government's employment policy strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Could the leader of the left be allowed to threaten state officials? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. Mr László Böröcz has the floor now. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, András Fekete-Győr, President of Momentum, made a clear statement about his vision the other day, about what would happen if, in 2022, the left won the elections. In this regard, I would like to quote a few sentences from the President of the Momentum. Viktor Orbán will travel to the east forever. The opposition will have the means to degrade the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian state. We will change a system, an era, he said, and history shows that in such situations it is rare that the functionaries stick to the fallen side in the long run. They switch, but that doesn't mean that we say that Peter Polt can stay, but that he can go free in some kind of deal, but in return he has given up people to the rule of law, who otherwise couldn't have been squeezed. He added that the President of the Republic should obviously be replaced.I ask Mr Secretary of State with respect what it is if it is not a public threat to Hungary's attorney general and the head of the state. I think that András Fekete-Győr has repeatedly crossed a border, while his party tries to discredit Hungary for reasons stated in Brussels, while at the same time, elected state officials would be illegally removed at home. What would the Members of the European Commission, who are constantly concerned about Hungary, think about this? In addition, as you can see, the left has no meaningful concept of the future of the country, in the event of a possible victory of 22. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask, with respect, Mr State Secretary, that one of the leaders of the left is allowed to threaten state officials by blackmailing and illegally replacing them in the event of a change of government. Thank you.
u2020-11-02-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-02-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I can start from the Fundamental Law, which is crucial in the context of being on the ground of legality. The Parliament adopted it according to the rules laid down in the previous Constitution, so it is a valid, valid and binding legal document. The rules governing the exercise of public office and the replacement in those posts shall be governed by the Fundamental Law. Therefore, any political proposal which seeks to change persons in public law positions in breach of these rules is considered to be an unlawful, thus an exclusive violation of power and is considered unconstitutional. I therefore think that, on the one hand, these types of threats must be taken seriously and rejected, not on a party political basis, but beyond party political logic, on the ground of legality and common sense. On the other hand, in view of the political performance of András Fekete-Győr and Momentum and the left over the last few months, it is fortunately not to take it too seriously, it is necessary to squeal on them, and these sounds must be classified as extreme provocation. Moreover, this is a very frightening precedent not only in the sense of threatening public officials and interfering with their work from outside, but also because it tells ordinary citizens a lot of things that if the left came to power, it would mean what kind of power exercise. I don't think either one of us wants to live on the left or on the right in a country like this. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-11-02-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman, so it's time for Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We absolutely agree that I believe that Fidesz has represented the policy that elections must be clearly won over the last 30 years, and that, within the legal framework provided, it is clear that amendments can be made to certain structures for the functioning of the country, but that the most important fundamental rules must be followed by which Hungary can be a long-term and predictable rule of law. It is only annoying because András Fekete-Győr and Momentum are indeed one of the leading fighters of continuously reporting Hungary and attacking Hungary in Brussels together with DK and the MSZP, who are better representatives. It is not enough that Anna Donáth was exposed not so long ago thanks to a video recording that has been released, so if we look at where this type of thinking comes from, who is trying to wipe out who with reference to freedom and equality, it is clearly due to communism and the communist dictatorship. If you'll allow me one more second of patience, I'd like to read one sentence: "For us, the enemy is not a lion." [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but the rat, the dying rat, said Ferenc Donáth in 1948. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-194	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I would also like to draw your attention to the time frame. A one-minute rejoinder is also possible for Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-02-195	I heard one of my constitutional lawyers say in college that stupidity is not unconstitutional, and that is true in that sense, so everyone has the right to talk nonsense. I think it is important that we defend this right for everyone, because it is also related to freedom, and that is why these precedents and these speeches are very dangerous, because they threaten not only those with a public function, but also ordinary people. They say that it is not worth thinking differently in this country, it is not worth expressing its opinion freely, it is not worth standing up for Christian right-wing Hungarian values. I think this is a message that I say to all of us once again, regardless of party political affiliation, must be rejected. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-02-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 16 hours and 58 minutes. This brings us to the end of the immediate questioning period. We are now continuing our work with discussions on Commission reports and summary amendments. With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation. Dear Parliament, Following up is the 1993 III on social management and social benefits. Act 1 and LXVI of 2019 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020 Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/13259. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. [[17.00]] I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Orbán Balázs Secretary of State, if he would like to speak. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Yeah. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time frame of 15 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting any closing words. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-11-02-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is also apparent from the bill before us that the Government of Hungary continues to have a key objective of strengthening the capacity of the villages to maintain their population, and of attracting the lower population of settlements among young people, families and people who want to settle down, to which the operation of the village and folklore service is considered to be an effective tool. In August 1990, at the time of the change of regime, the initiative was launched from the village and folklore service. Today, this network includes more than 1100 village maintenance services and nearly 500 staff members. The aim of this service is to mitigate the disadvantages of small villages due to the lack of institutions and difficulties in community transport, to provide contributions to services to meet basic needs, to other public services and to certain basic services, as well as to the fulfilment of all types of individual needs at Community level. The bill before you provides for the expansion of this service, as a result of which, from 1 January 2021, the service would be available to settlements of less than a thousand inhabitants by increasing the central budget support necessary for the operation of the service. According to the Law on the Central Budget of 2021, in 2021, the subsidy amount for the village and folklore services will be HUF 4 million 479 thousand per service. The draft legislation also means that we can introduce the settlement framework for a thousand inhabitants, which was originally established in 2022, a year earlier, as of 1 January 2021, which will open up the possibility of using village care services in more than 200 settlements from this date, a year earlier than originally planned. In the event of the adoption of the bill, in 2021 the additional resources of up to HUF 958 million of HUF 506 thousand will be required to provide the village and folklore service, as well as the one-off expenditure for the purchase of motor vehicles, more than HUF 3 billion of HUF 200 million will be required, which the government is prepared to do. And for the future, I can tell you that we are constantly looking at the possibility of further expansion of the service in several directions. Thus, it can also be a reality that services can be provided in settlements with a population of more than 1000 inhabitants. The key here is funding from central budget support. That's what we're talking about right now. We have looked at the possibilities and, despite the difficult economic situation of the corona virus epidemic, we are proposing to advance the expansion of the service by one year. I thank you, in the general debate, for the constructive contributions from both the pro-government and the opposition side. In view of the fact that no amendment has been tabled to the bill, I trust that it will have your support beyond the political logic of the party. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill, the further development and development of the countryside. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-198	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr Orbán Balázs, Minister of State, for his speech as rapporteur. I would like to inform you that you have 11 minutes and 40 seconds of time for further comments in the debate, if I have calculated correctly. Before we go any further in our work, I thank you for your cooperation and I give the chair to my fellow Vice-President István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-02-199	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Group leader, LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]]
u2020-11-02-200	Welcome, Mr President, and thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In his short introduction, it was said that we had a very detailed general debate. We have basically come from a general debate on rural policy to the extent that we fully agree on the goals of doing so for the development of the Hungarian countryside, and we also have to give small settlements every opportunity to prosper. We agree with these objectives, and we believe that the specific proposal before us is also fully eligible. Of course, we will also enforce this in the vote. At the same time, I would like to underline very briefly that, together with agreeing on the objectives, there are very serious debates between us regarding the gravity of the problems. We have talked a great deal here about the lower roads, the problems of the public utility network, so all the issues that are essential for stopping the break-down of small settlements. We have discussed on a number of occasions with Mr State Secretary the impact of economic measures linked to the coronal virus epidemic on small settlements, such as the withdrawal of various taxes. Mr Secretary of State has confirmed that small settlements have the opportunity to apply through different sources if these withdrawals cause serious operational problems. I am able to confirm these issues over the past few days, that is, after the general debate, with the leaders of a number of small settlements, and I would like to emphasise that there are very, very many small settlements in such a difficult situation that it is really necessary to be able to cope with their own task in this way by receiving special support. And given the challenges faced by local governments, small settlements, cities, mid-towns and large cities throughout the country, I think it is worth considering that the government should not be looking at such special proposals for small settlements to obtain funds, but should transform the system in such a way that they can face these challenges more stablely in general and solve their own mandatory tasks. I think there is a huge need to increase, increase the government and increase the revenue and resources of small settlements. But again, this bill is and will be fully supported by the LMP fraction. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State how you'd like to react. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: No, thank you.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on amendments to the legislation concerning certain elements of the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/13105. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-02-202	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 29 October 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of the laws concerning certain elements of the financial intermediary system for legal harmonisation purposes T/13105. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The amendments set out in the bill before us are part of a broader review of EU financial regulation, focusing on reducing the risks of the financial sector and promoting sustainable financing of economic activity. The proposal includes, inter alia, rules on the prudential supervision of investment firms, which include rules on investment firms that have been applied to date, which are milder than credit institutions' rules, but more appropriate to risks. It is also necessary to transpose the European Union Directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and the amendments to the Directive aimed at ensuring a sufficient level of loss-bearing and recapitalisation capacity of credit institutions and investment firms into domestic law. [[17.10]] The aim of the change in the area of insurance is to facilitate cooperation between supervisors in cross-border insurance activities and to review the professional liability insurance amount of insurance intermediaries. Dear House, In the context of the bill, in addition to legal harmonisation obligations, the provisions contained in the bill build on the supervisory experience of the Hungarian National Bank and take into account consumer protection aspects. The proposals also support and strengthen bank digitalisation, so that the use of individual services can be made in a new way in the event of public demand. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, the Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has a total of 15 minutes to speak at this stage of the debate and to speak at any time in the debate. You're the word.
u2020-11-02-204	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, In closing the parliamentary debate, I would like to thank you for your supporting attitude so far, and I would like to say a few words about the amendments to the bill. Most of the amendments contain precise and codification provisions in order to ensure the internal consistency of the bill. As far as the content changes are concerned, they are essentially aimed at achieving and updating the legal harmonisation obligations of the proposed legislation in the European Union. An example of the latter is an amendment to the EU legislation published on 9 October 2020 which was also included in the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee. This proposes to amend the law on certain payment services on the grounds that, under the relevant Directive, a Member State may only require the appointment of a contact point for a payment institution, an electronic money institution, that is to say, a payment intermediary located in the EEA, i.e. a European Economic Area State, which is also a service provider in a Member State, if it complies with the criteria laid down in the Commission Delegated Regulation. We are therefore talking about a new EU regulation, which has been published in the meantime, and that is what we are putting into the bill. In addition, I would just like to mention a further amendment. This amendment aims to ensure that the parts of the resolution law concerning own funds requirements are consistent with two additional EU regulations, the new regulation laying down prudential rules for investment firms and the regulation laying down prudential rules for credit institutions. Overall, I believe that the amendments also contribute to the fact that, as has been said in the general debate, the bill serves the continued safe functioning of the financial intermediary system. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for your attention and ask for the adoption of the bill, together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-02-206	Mr President, Dear House, I made a promise to myself, and, as I am not against such suggestions, I tried to find as few handholds as possible to be attached to, since that was not my goal. However, with regard to the period since the general debate, I must note that I have not received and have not received any answers to a number of questions raised, where appropriate, by a pro-government fellow Member. In this way, I do not think it to be deplorable that we have about the fifteenth, the financial institutions sedition or aimed at it, and I also see that there are a number of points in this debate that we have covered, but here I have to make a few comments on the consumer protection that we have fallen into the MNB. I see that several of my pro-government fellow Members welcome the fact that the entire system of consumer protection has been placed under the National Bank of Hungary, and I also see that many people do not take it as if the role of the "robbery" was entrusted to the "pandur" by us. I would not simplify this picture so much either, although, I add, I do not necessarily consider it a fortunate step that total financial consumer protection should be included in a large ball, which should, where appropriate, check itself, but I acknowledge and accept that this is partly a codification task, that Parliament should amend and rewrite the Hungarian National Bank Act and other legislation in such a way that this regulation is complete. Why this would be important is what we see today, when the exchange rate of the forint is record low compared to the euro. A catastrophic situation occurred at the time of which this current government and its leaders had full right to rebel before 2010, and they had my sympathy at the time when they said that weak forints were only wanted by weak people. We also see that since 2010, along with a fully conscious economic policy thesis, which, in my view, I think is wrongfully allowed the forint to weaken. I do not want to suggest and visualize that Fidesz-KDNP alone is responsible for the weakening of the forint, that would not be a professional argument, there would not be a professional voice in itself, because we know that the exchange rate of the forint is influenced by at least four factors, of which one or two can be linked to the government, but sometimes one or two are enough to cause trouble. We see that this record low forint price, whether it is recognised by my pro-government fellow Members or not, strikes as a brutal penalty tax. Where? On the side of the Hungarian population. After all, I would like to, too, we cannot avoid import products, whether they are smartphones, clothing articles or basic food, and I would very much like to buy them from basic foods so that there is a quality Hungarian product everywhere in the shops, unfortunately there is no Hungarian product, but we also see that even the prices of domestic food production plants are going up because of the weak forints, as they acquire machines, plant protection products, technology and so on. We see, therefore, that this amazing penalty tax strikes people in a thousand billion-dollar scale without exaggerating. And when we ask the Magyar Nemzeti Bank what the Hungarian National Bank is saying about the euro exchange rate, fortunately, it has intervened once recently, and I thought it was very important to do so, they always note that neither they nor the Government of Hungary have any exchange rate targets, and the MNB notes this with reference to the fact that the Parliament, which is the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP since 2010, has not included in the National Bank Act that, my friends, you have exchange rate targets. In this way, everyone can shift this responsibility away from themselves, and, obviously, in the interest of exporting companies, they continuously consciously weaken the forint. I would also add that the euro mass brought here from the EU will be worth a little more than the continuous depreciation of the forint, but this cannot be our national interest, especially because more than 80 percent of these exporting companies are multinational companies operating in Hungary, which generate huge profits in Hungary, and most of this profit would be untaxed in the case of genuine patriot economic policy, and since they take out this profit of only a thousand billion again, typically without tax, we can even see that they receive unilateral discounts and job creation subsidies, I think to an unjustified extent, and even the very weak forint will drive the water to their mill. It is no exaggeration to say that there is a multi-company or bank paradise in Hungary, I might add, not only since 2010, but since 2010 it has been speeding up. I would therefore like to sympathise with a change that would transform the whole of financial consumer protection into an independent organisational structure contrary to pro-government references. I am addressing the Secretary of State: for example, I was very fond of the fact that the Hungarian National Bank, when it came to achieving results, was paying 250 of it as a virtual dividend to the joint cash register. Mr Secretary of State, I ask for your opinion and I ask you to act on this matter, if you agree with this, why we cannot bring about an amendment which, on a German sample, would not allow the Hungarian National Bank to pay its result at all times towards the budget, but would be obliged to do so. In the case at hand, it is not necessarily in the interest of the national economy that the Hungarian National Bank should finance these funds, buy art, open a new office building or organise conferences, but especially now, in times of crisis, the budget needs this resource very much. If, for some reason, the German national economy thought that the current Hungarian national bank I would like to ask with great respect why Hungary does not dare to take this path. [[17.20]] After all, what I see now is that the various moments in the gold stock regarding exchange rate changes have caused a big leap in results, and in addition to its own activity in a smaller part, this more than 250 billion forints is obviously useful for the epidemiology defense. In other years, for example, in the past, a surplus of hundreds or even thousands of billions at the MNB, which we did not see at all in the budget, which would have been sufficient for at least a number of measures to mitigate the difficult situation of those who have suffered credit. I do not wish to get involved in this proposal on a point-by-point basis, because there are also good points in this proposal, and we do not want to debate them. We have already talked about how, in the case of adoption, the family allowance can not only be given to those who are entitled to it, but also to those who are actually raising education, for example, I think that all of us as well as a family person with a good feeling, as parents, or who is single among us, can certainly support it. But I can see that there are systemic problems. The Hungarian National Bank is entrusted with financial consumer protection, which, in terms of its organisational structure and its honest behaviour, is often unsuitable for this role, even when very good ideas come out of it, and then comes out with blood-freezing analyses that are very difficult to deal with. In a separate organisational structure, we believe that it would be much more effective to carry out financial control, and perhaps a few tens of thousands of foreign exchange credit victims would be more relaxed if they met the same information, whether from a pro-government side, with a intention to keep financial control in an independent sphere, rather than slam it into a mammoth organization. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-02-207	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak under this item. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-02-208	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Z. Kárpat, for your suggestions. There will be a wide spectrum of proposals and, in my understanding, they are less linked to the current bill or amendments. We would be very happy to discuss any of your movements, obviously under any other circumstances, because of the scarcity of time here, let me just say one thing. When we debate where financial consumer protection should be, financial consumer protection is traditionally and this general practice is under the supervision of the financial system. So it's where the custody is. So if we want to open this debate, we need to debate where supervision should be. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right.]] So that's how I'd raise this problem if it were a problem. I also said in the general debate that there is no common good recipe for supervision within or outside a given central bank in the world. Some operate as part of the central bank and some operate outside the central bank. Personally, I think that it does not depend so much on what department it operates in, but on what capacity it works in, and we all really need to work on constantly improving this quality and responding to the new challenges that arise every day at supervisory level. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Coming up next in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon 44/2006 on Hungarian participation. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposal for a decision repealing the Decision and of the draft amending proposal. The government referral is H/13107. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-02-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 October 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the Hungarian participation of UNIFIL in the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations in Lebanon. H/13107 on the repeal of the parliamentary decision of 10 October 2006 A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, UNIFIL, United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, has been present in Lebanon since 1978. It has been established to monitor the withdrawal of Israeli forces from South Lebanon and has continued to monitor compliance with the peace agreements. This is one of the United Nations' longest operational missions. Hungary has been involved in the implementation of the mission since 2006, under the heading 44/2006. According to a parliamentary decision, up to ten soldiers of the Hungarian Army can serve in UNIFIL. For the safety of the Hungarian people, the government declares that the problems must be resolved at the place of conflict, so that they cannot reach our country. Our country takes part in international crisis management tasks in this spirit, in accordance with its commitments. Along these lines, the Government aimed at increasing participation in the Lebanese mission. Further strengthening the Lebanese quota would be an important step in our responsibility in the UN Member States, but it would also help to improve our bilateral relations with countries in the regions concerned. It is also important to note that Lebanon plays a role beyond its power in the reception and care of refugees from conflict zones in the Middle East, so that all support is of particular importance in preserving its stability. An amendment to the Constitution of 2009 constitutes a quasi-legal barrier to the increase in engagement, as set out in Section XXX of 2009 There's a law in place. The government has given jurisdiction to decisions on our involvement in foreign military missions. This element was also taken over by the Fundamental Law pursuant to Article 47 (paragraph 1), but according to the text of the old constitution of 1949 in autumn 2006, the National Assembly had jurisdiction over UN operations. The parliamentary decision of 2006 mentioned above must therefore be repealed in order to ensure that the steps of enlargement can be taken in the right way. Dear House, In view of the reasons given, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Szilárd Németh, Minister of State, now to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I ask my fellow Members, someone wishes to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. There was no debate, so obviously there will be no answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on livestock farmers' day will follow. Presentation submitted by Fidesz MEPs István Horváth and Sándor Font H/13309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I will ask Mr Font Sándor to speak on behalf of the authors. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, Mr. President of the Commission, you have the floor.
u2020-11-02-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, the essence of the decision proposal is well known to everyone, in which we would like to pay tribute to Hungarian livestock farmers by making the day of St. Michael 29 September a day for livestock farmers. There was virtually no conflicting debate and no suggestion during the general debate and the detailed debate that took place on 14 October; this was done in the Committee on Agriculture. There was no amendment adopted in the Committee on Agriculture, and practically the members of the political groups who expressed their support for this motion. I would like to thank them here for this presentation, and I trust that next year, on the 29th of September, on St. Michael's Day, we will be able to take part on both a virus-free holiday and a real holiday that gives them the opportunity to praise them. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Deputy Minister. [[17 .30]]
u2020-11-02-214	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased about all of us who work, live, act and act in agriculture, perhaps in the past time I can say that this celebration, the celebration of Hungarian livestock farmers, is expected to be adopted tomorrow, along with the support of the opposition. This is an appreciation of Hungarian livestock farmers, Hungarian professional organisations and everyone who works in this sector. We have said many times that agriculture is a difficult industry, in which very many animals are bred and not only bred, but also raised. It is important that, in this work, 365 days of the year, on holiday, these animals should be fed, watered, cared for, nursed or even cured, and they will be a fine day for the industry. I thank my fellow Members, our fellow opposition Members, for their support, as well as the thanks proposed and presented by the President of the Commission. I ask that we do this tomorrow, so that it will truly become a holiday day for St. Michael. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-215	Thank you very much, Mr Vice Minister, for your reply and for your speech. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Agriculture did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Group leader, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Well, I would like to thank the rapporteur for thinking of this proposal, and he has tabled it. I think it has also been said in the general debate that this is consensual, and I very much hope that the vote will be consensual. I can tell you that the LMP fraction will, of course, support this proposal in tomorrow's vote. Indeed, as Mr Secretary of State has indicated now and in the general debate, this is a challenge that requires constant attention, for which the workers can speak only in the language of gratitude or in the words of gratitude. I would like to note in particular that we pay special respect to breeders who are working on the survival of indigenous or extinct animal species. We are very confident that this is an important, joyful, symbolic step, and that more and more measures will follow that will help those who have chosen this difficult profession in practice. I would like to refer very briefly to one thing. It has been said in Mr. Secretary of State that the day of the livestock farmers has been the day of St. Michael's presentation, which is traditionally the date of the recovery of the animals from pasture, the closure of the grazing season, and the accounting of the shepherds. Unfortunately, it can be concluded that traditional lawn-based animal farming and related pastoral traditions, foals, goulashes, shepherds, canes, are practically extinct, and very few carry on this tradition. We can say that it is obviously of great importance for the maintenance of our lawns and the protection of environmental values, so it would certainly be appropriate to take as many measures as possible to ensure the survival of these traditions. I call on the government to do this, and I trust that such very important traditions and very important professions, which are already dying out, will be made in order to save such archaic activities in the next period, decisions which, in addition to such important, consensual and symbolic steps, will be able to provide substantial help in practice. I repeat briefly: we will support this proposal tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister that he wishes to respond on behalf of the government. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Mr. Deputy Minister indicates that you do not wish to react. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Font Sándor, as his representative, if he would like to speak. [[At the sign of Sándor Font:]] Mr President, you also indicate that you do not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LV on the protection of the game, game management and hunting. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Presentation by István Simicskó and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, Members T/13109. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Mr President, the Council points out that it intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on behalf of the government, the Deputy Minister wishes to speak. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Mr Deputy Minister, you do not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, Chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2020-11-02-218	Yes, thank you very much, and I am not speaking here as chairman of the committee, because there was no amendment adopted for the tabled motion at our meeting on 14 October 2020. I would add that in general, the members of the committee and, as I have listened to, our fellow Members in Parliament, the aim is to save the Transylvanian hounds, and to give the owners an inspiring opportunity to continue breeding, it was generally an accepted fact, and then here the debate started towards the deep... hunting, hunting and dogs, perhaps in an environment where we were not quite sure that we were the most uprising to discuss this issue, but the good intentions were clear on everyone's part. I support this proposal with a clear conscience, and so did our faction, as it gives us an opportunity to allow Transylvanian hounds to be registered again in a larger number every year, that is, to be motivated by the very few Transylvanian scooter keepers who are still dealing with this ancient breed and to see their fantasies. I don't want to use statistical data, but anyone who knows what kind of dog is registered in Hungary today and how many thousand numbers this number is in relation to hobby dogs knows that this is far from the nine native Hungarian breeds, but rather it is hobby dogs and luxurious dogs that may live their lives in the corner of a room or in an apartment in the interior. Well, the Transylvanian hound isn't like that, it's not what God created it for, and his genetics aren't like that, so we think it's entirely justified that we allow the Transylvanian hounds to hunt. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-219	Thank you very much, Mr President, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if one of my fellow Members would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, who wishes to reply on behalf of the authors. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to thank everyone for their participation in the general debate, on behalf of Mr István Simicskó, and also at the Commission stage. I think there has been a serious professional debate in order to save indigenous Hungarian breeds of dogs. Many important points of view, many aspects and many sensible comments were made in the general debate and in the Commission stage. I think that the Transylvanian copper is a national treasure, we have a shared responsibility to save him, we also have a duty to save him from hunting and cultural history, which is what we have in Parliament's current bill. This current bill is a good direction in this case, a good way to save the Transylvanian hound. I would ask everyone to support this bill in tomorrow's vote, and then there could be another parliamentary unity in the matter of saving indigenous Hungarian dog breeds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-02-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government. [[17.40]]
u2020-11-02-222	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is no need for many explanations, because we see it, and I believe that all my fellow Members, who participated in previous debates, acknowledge practically the importance of this type and, besides its importance, the great protected, indigenous races that are still available... what responsibility we have in saving these species and species. And I think I can relate here to the former item on the agenda with half a sentence when Mr LMP Group Leader referred to traditions. I believe that this is part of this, and I believe that we share the view that when we have a great value, I could say that with extinction or low recognition, we must, of course, preserve these. I believe that future breeders will appreciate this, and I trust that in the coming period, registered animals from breeding will really prove the rightness of our decision. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-223	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your speech. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Our City, Pécs 29." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-02-224	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I'd like to talk to you about a problem that has become topical over the past six months. In 2019 there was a significant change in the municipal elections in many places, in many places there was some kind of local cooperation, and so in many places the majority of non-government city leaders took over the leadership of different settlements, cities and districts. The municipal elections have already been preceded by a debate that there are legitimate or less legitimate fears that, if the government loses the municipal elections or loses it in certain places, it will use government, central measures and make it difficult for these cities to operate. All in all, after the last year, I think we can say that, indeed, this fear has been confirmed. Last year, we have not seen that before, it has caught all of us, not only Hungary, but Europe, and even the whole world unexpectedly, the coronal virus epidemic, the amazing challenge that we are all facing. The epidemic itself has brought with it a deep economic crisis that, in addition to the difficult tasks that have taken place so far, has faced very serious new challenges for municipalities. We can say that, and this was also seen during the first period of the epidemic, that most municipalities have really fought exemplaryly, that, above all, as the number one bastions of defence, they have begun to implement measures to save the lives and health of the people living there, and that they are trying to reduce economic damage. At the same time, we can see that the government has recently taken a lot of austerity measures that are contrary to this common interest and, in particular, have made it difficult for municipalities to defend themselves in a lot of ways, removing a lot of resources from defence. Today, in the hour of immediate questioning, my fellow Member Tamás Mellár has already referred to the situation in my city, Pécs, and then Secretary of State Károly Kontra referred to this, with such a very, very simplistic, schematic picture that Fidesz is building and the left is destroying the cities. Obviously, there are many ways to argue with this statement, in the case of Pécs, we can say that for many years the left has been destroyed and then the Fidesz has been destroyed for ten years. So I think that both dominant political sides are entitled to criticism. And in many respects, the city of Pécs is in a very difficult situation thanks to the long, long years, decades of dilettious, incompetent, corrupt and irresponsible majority of city leaders, and last year's change found the city in a very, very difficult situation. I think that, in recent weeks, the local political debate, which is far from national, has developed in recent weeks, has shown that the Fidesz city leaders and Fidesz politicians who left after ten years in the spring of last year are not entirely lacking in remorse, but even self-criticism, and they do not acknowledge anything in particular from the destruction they have committed. And it just started, a few days ago, in one of the most serious corruption cases after the change of regime, which is absolutely linked to the fidesz period. Well, I stress that the majority of the Balliberal city leaders prior to the change before 2009 were basically destroyed, and there were huge and shocking corruption cases there too, but it must be said that during the ten years of Fidesz, Pécs was in a worse situation in all aspects. Of the large regional rural centres, the city's economy is now the weakest, Baranya is the last in terms of per capita industrial performance. In 2014, there was a large government debt transfer, then nearly HUF 50 billion was nationalised from the city's loan portfolio, but by 2019 the debt was again well over 20 billion. In the 15-year term, the maintenance of utilities is missing HUF 20 billion. And as a result of all these economic problems, we can see the shocking indicators, the city lost 14,000 people during these ten years, so 14 thousand people migrated, for economic reasons. And we can also see that the University of Pécs can be interpreted as an independent city in the city, the number of students of the university with a number of students of over 30 thousand at one time has now fallen below 20,000. So the city is in a very difficult situation, and it is therefore very, very worrying to see the processes that have taken place in the last year. The government hijacked the vehicle tax, which meant 500 million for the city of Pécs; we can see that nearly 2 billion forints were taken from the University of Pécs. It does not concern the municipality directly, but it is quite clear that the restrictions and withdrawals affecting the university will have a specific impact on all residents of the city. What I can tell you is that we support the direction in which cities and municipalities can manage as much as possible from EU funds, but what I can say is that it is not only the responsibility of central governments, but also the responsibility of the majority of local city leaders to manage the resources so provided. Even the current coalition of city leaders in Pécs can be criticised on this issue. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Unfortunately, and I'm sad to see that they showed up after 2009, the ominous, memorable figures of the former Balliberal period. I very much hope that, if necessary, self-criticism will be addressed by the current independent mayor and the majority of city leaders. Thank you very much. And thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-11-02-225	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the speaking time is five minutes. Dear Parliament, Erik Fülöp, an independent representative, applied for a post-meeting speech. When does the Government set up the animal police? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2020-11-02-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, One of the most brutal cases of animal cruelty in recent days in Pusztaszabolcs. The Fema animal rescuers found a horribly tortured dog, first stabbed in the chest, and then cut the skin on the head with some sharp object, almost scalped, and then broke the back legs of this poor dog. Upon hearing the national horror story, animal rescuers put a bounty on the unsub and organized a collection for a reward. I, too, and I know that several of my fellow politicians have been involved in this collection, so that there will be a proper reward. Unfortunately, to this day, we still haven't been able to catch the unsub. Sadly, regardless of all the enthusiastic, devoted work of the doctors, the animal died a few days ago. I think that this is not the only case that has happened in the last few weeks, and I can list many of these shocking cases to my greatest sorrow and our greatest regret. A few days ago a dog was shot in the head with a small.22 ball rifle, a dog in a loop trap in Szekszárd was beaten almost beyond recognition, and Apcon's owner dragged his drowning dog for half a kilometer, and Niklan shot a cat's eye out with an air gun. These cases are all happening in the last two weeks. With all this outrageous and shocking incident, I think it is worth remembering the words of Mahatma Gandhi, one of the greatest animal friends in history. Gandhi said that the greatness and moral development of a nation is faithfully reflected in the way it treats animals. Unfortunately, we can see that Hungarian society is now in a very difficult moral and moral crisis, because we can see how citizens treat certain animals. [[17.50]] Unfortunately, we can also conclude that Hungarian animal protection is in ruins, and it is just in time, and perhaps it is too late for the government to decide and, with the help of Parliament, set up the animal police with autonomous powers of action. The organisation that specializes in animal protection may have powers, powers of action, not only detects but also tries to prevent such horrific and brutal cases of animal cruelty and animal murder. It is also important to draw the public's attention to the fact that many international studies show that murderers, often insane people who first fill their anger and aberrations with animals, sooner or later very large numbers turn against weaker, older fellows, children, defenseless or elderly. It is therefore necessary to prevent these people from committing their actions as soon as possible. Many international examples show that animal police, as an independent organisation, can work well. We see that the United States has a very, very old tradition of a separate animal police force. A few years ago, in 2015 a similar organisation was set up in Bulgaria with full powers of action and full powers of action. Not so long ago we received the news, the joyful news, that next year in Romania, too, an animal police will be set up, which can take action, use its coercive means, and, of course, its purpose is not only to detect all animal torturers, but also to prevent them from committing these cases later. I think that on several occasions I have expressed my joy at seeing that both the government and Parliament are dealing with or trying to deal with the animal protection situation now. We very much welcome the appointment of the Commissioner for Animal Protection, Péter Ovádi. We very much welcome the fact that something has started, something has started, but in addition to the eradication of reproductive sites, the substantial financial and moral support of animal protection organisations, the demand for imprisonment and the launch of a national neutering action, I believe that we cannot leave without a word and we must demand the establishment of animal police. In this, a lot of civil society organisations and very many animal protection representatives offer their help, as I do. Prison for the animal torturers! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-02-227	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-02-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I will try to keep you regularly informed of the major events affecting my constituency. This is because the Municipality of Újpest, and I think that a lot of municipalities are in a situation where, as a result of the withdrawal of funds, municipalities have to cope with everyday life and how they can solve the best possible service from ever decreasing sources. These increasingly declining resources are essentially the restrictions that the government decides on and affect the municipalities, not really about the municipality, but about the people who live in the locality, in the district. This must be combated and essentially found good solutions for the given municipality, in this case the Újpest municipality. Moreover, the body of representatives has taken several decisions over the past period, and has held several board meetings. I highlight some of these decisions, which are partly a good example and, in part, I think that we all have an opportunity to consider. I would like to point out, for example, that the vaccination support system has been given a green light. This and other examples also show how family-centred and alerting the children are and will take priority in a situation where what they do and what the situation in such a district can do after government restrictions in an environment affected by an epidemic. In particular, it is the municipality's obligation to provide support for families when administering rotavirus and meningitis vaccinations to newest families who were born after 1 January 2020. However, it was also decided that the decision to reduce the ten percent rent of social government housing was taken by the municipality in view of the coronal virus epidemic, thus supporting the most deprived. This remains a significant discount for tenants in this way. I therefore believe that the system itself must be seen as a whole, which, in addition to the social need, takes account of those who, by the way, are able to choose or choose a cost-oriented solution, but also this, this cost, or this rent, represents one third of the rents on the market today. In addition, the Újpest municipality, which has more than two thousand apartments, has the market-based potential to provide high-quality apartments for those interested. Moreover, with the decision of the municipality, the Újpest Children Charity Fund was established, which specifically aims to improve equal opportunities for disadvantaged children in Újpest. The fund, created by HUF 2 million, provides the opportunity to support the most needy with the current tender and decision. I think it is clear and clear from this that the Újpest municipality, in addition to the principle of necessity, pays great energy and attention to families and children in themselves. But it was also decided that IV. The district also participates in the European Union's LIFE Climate Sub-programme, which supports the innovative implementation of low-carbon renewable energy sample investments, thereby contributing to a more livable environment beyond greening, which I believe is Újpest in many areas from the point of view of those who go there. Please come and see us. Despite the fact that the government is doing everything it can to make it difficult for the municipalities and, among them, the municipality of Újpest to be in an easy situation, I believe that the municipality is doing everything it can for the people who live there, for the people who live there, and thank you very much for the work of the municipality. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-02-229	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group, asked for a speech: they dreamed of a guard city, a propaganda capital and a regional centre. It's a nightmare. The reality of Debrecen is more like the title of bankruptcy. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2020-11-02-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Government convoys, ministers, secretary of state, but the great national gasman himself is handing each other the doorknob in the city, and they're handing over or announcing something here for the better. We of Debrecen are rushing our heads to become the Fidesz guard city quoted in Habony propaganda, and now we read in the pro-government news that we are the future capital of the nation. I am told that it is said that the government party's serious intention in this matter is that an incredible amount of money will be rolled into Debrecen as a fidesz guard city, a propaganda capital. Let's see what is really the truth of this, then. I'd like to shoot the joke in front of you right now, pretty much nothing. There is no doubt that the famous international school in Debrecen has been built in Debrecen, a public institution with all the existing technical educational tools and a huge cash register, from which almost everyone but the children of the billionaires and the Fidesz elite are excluded, but the Debrecens are in any way. I have been talking for a long time about a babysitter for the holders of political and economic power, as I have mentioned this several times, which costs Debrecen, the workers in Debrecen, a minimum of 230 million forints a year, with a total of four children in Debrecen getting scholarships. At times, the pro-government politicians also refer to the government's announcement of the programme "Debrecen 2030" in addition to providing glamorous appearances and publicity. That's right, please, although the program is currently mostly the five-year plan-like set of fairy tales that summon the Kádár era, as a real concept with real content and a sound concept. [[18.00]] Write and say: We're talking 600 billion forints of support. This plan was flaunted by the government representatives, members of the government, and there was no foggy promise about the honey business: the Debrecen 2030, programme will bring the inhabitants of the city a quality of life that will not be similar in the region. I have to add, it didn't, because the D2030 program didn't allow us to know any specific lines outside the usual pro-state propaganda. When, however, one of the interns of the Ministry of Innovation could at least sketch some sort of program in one of the offices in Pest, it was revealed, which had so far been suspected: the whole was a list of reheated investments that had so far not or only partially been carried out in Debrecen in the last decade. Money, of course, for the time being, is nothing but a far-reaching promise. And now everyone in the city can see that Debrecen is not only a privileged flagship for Fidesz's policy, but with the same restrictions the government is making impossible for its operation and development, and slowly its existence as any other municipality, the 3200 municipalities that are now drinking the consequences of the government's policy on self-governments. Let's see what I'm talking about. The government pulled the car tax. This is roughly 720 million HUF for Debrecen. He has also increased the solidarity tax in our city to many times. Here you go, fidesz guard city. The deadline for paying the business tax has also been postponed, which forced Debrecen to receive another HUF 1.4 billion loan. Thank you, Viktor Orbán. The most recent blow to the local authorities, including Debrecen, was to take away the targeted support for community transport, which will be another HUF 450 million withdrawal for our city. All this by remembering the fundamentally flawed nature of urban public transport, marked by the name Lajos Kósa, from the very beginning, because of the concept of lies and deception, the public transport in Debrecen is helped by the municipality to avoid statutory bankruptcy by means of loss compensation of billions per year. And then whoever says that Debrecen is the outpost of Fidesz, the promised land. It's not like that. Debrecen is an example of the government thinking it is necessary to think it is bad and the head of government considers it a milk cow. Debrecen is no exception. We drink the same amount of money that the government is doing, as all the other municipalities in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-02-231	Dear Parliament, Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for an after-the-date speech:. What about Marcali Hospital? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-02-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What about Marcali Hospital? I ask the question in the Parliament for years now, and there are tens of thousands of people in the Marcali area who regularly go to this hospital to heal. As you know, this hospital has provided healthcare for 60,000 people before, and this is the hospital that has lived in its calvary or drama since 2012. Since then, waiting lists have increased, since then there has been a significant movement of doctors, since then classes have ceased, and ever since then people have to travel to Kaposvár more and more times to receive medical services. Well, well, Attila Móring József, who, as we know, constantly monitors the events, acknowledged in 2018, that integration failed. At the same time, Congressman announced and promised the Marcalians that the hospital would become independent at the beginning of 2019, but this did not happen. This July again, the Member promised that the hospital in Marcal would become independent, and this time he announced that this would happen on 1 November, the day yesterday. Well, that didn't happen, and the real question arises why the congressman is deceiving people. So he promises very little to the Marcalians, but he doesn't keep it regularly, and we don't understand why. We don't understand why, without the government's authority, he promises to say things that aren't true. Ladies and gentlemen, These are very important questions. But perhaps even more important questions are these practical questions. Even if it is realized and we trust that the independence of the hospital in Marcali will be achieved, what will this mean in practice? How will this change affect the daily lives of people in the region? Will there be more doctors? Waiting lists dropping? They're reopening obstetric gynecology? They're reopening the children's ward? Is there gonna be a CT? Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that we will get concrete and clear answers to these specific and clearly formulated questions as soon as possible. I'm leaving until this happens. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-02-233	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches following today's agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
