u2020-07-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 1st meeting of the 3rd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be helped by Attila Gelencsér and László Varga. Dear Parliament, I remind you that the government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of its extraordinary session for the period from 29 June to 3 July 2020. The letter and its annex can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear Parliament, Today, on the 1st of July, we celebrate the day of the birth of Hungarian medical scientist Semmelweis Ignac, whom the whole world respects as an explorer of the disease of child-bed fever. He was the first to recognize the origin of hospital infections, and he continued to fight for the general application of hospital hygiene and disinfection procedures for the rest of his life. The 2003 LXXXIV. Our Health Act No 15/B. According to §2 of the Act, Semmelweis Day is 1 July, which is also a public holiday for health workers. In 2013, the UNESCO's International Advisory Committee. The World's Memory Programme included Semmelweis Ignác's findings on child-bed fever and documents published on the discovery. In 2018, the two hundredth anniversary of the birth of the world-famous scientist was declared by the government the Semmelweis Ignác Memorial Year. A hand introduced that year by the Health Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. The campaign drew attention to the importance of washing hands. At that time, we did not realize how important this movement would be in our daily lives two years later, during the outbreak of the Crown Virus. State and individual protection measures to control or slow the spread of the disease are fundamental to emphasising the importance of hand washing, ensuring the possibility of hand disinfection, preferably in as many places as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Developments in recent months have made us all more aware of the work, living and working conditions of those working in the health sector. We have seen them fight the epidemic in excess of the force of health and social workers, taking part in patient care and healing while putting their own health at risk, often taking on a forced absence from their families. In recent months, it has been proven once again that human decency and vocation are as essential as the possession of professional knowledge in health care workers, since the focus of healing and nursing work is man. On behalf of my fellow Members, I would like to thank you once again for your sacrifice. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with speeches before the agenda. Before the agenda, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Group of Dialogues, spoke with a title on current affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-01-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, therefore, to thank health workers on Semmelweis Day on behalf of the Dialogue, most obviously in connection with their work against the epidemic. However, I must respond to the statements made by the Prime Minister and Secretary of State on Monday, so that we do not go to rest before the break, so that we can get caught in the head. You love to bring up the paramedic video and regularly call on the opposition to apologize. I'm guessing this disk's set up again today. By the way, this apology happened in our case. But when are you apologizing for the fake news that you've been saying for the past ten years that you've proven to be false? Only in your most important statement in the last municipal campaign was that if the opposition wins the municipal elections in the various settlements, then refugees and migrants will be deployed there. It's proven that's not true. When are you apologizing for this ordeal of lies, when are you apologizing? Your campaign in 2018 was based on this fake news, and I didn't hear any apologies about it. That's how they misdirected the electorate. You also spout the despicable lie that opposition parties have not helped but have harmed the epidemic. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the dialogue mayor of District I has introduced, for example, the basic income of crisis management, which is a real help to those who have lost their jobs; unlike you, we have helped them. The politicians of the Dialogue offered part of their salary to help those in need. Among other things, we sent packages to 43 institutions, 60 settlements, with cleaning products, masks, and food. The politicians of the party did volunteer work. I also did volunteer work in several districts, many rural settlements, shopping for our elderly countrymen, and delivering masks. I'm curious how many hours of volunteer work have been done in the epidemic by the State Secretarys who tell this lie. We heard the Prime Minister yesterday. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yesterday?!]] That he accused the capital of being a mecculist. Well, it's hard for you to listen to that accusation. Speaking of being nearby and talking about mecculos, what about the Castle Garden Bazaar you gave me three times? It's been handed over three times, and they've screwed up that investment so badly. And if it's mecculosis, then we can continue the line: what about my Biodo, for example, you started from 16 billion; when Gergely Christmas took over the capital, the costs were already at 50 billion. Now, that's the real mecculo. In connection with the Chain Bridge, we saw the Prime Minister swinging the 180 billion dollar paper. [[He's showing me a sheet of paper.]] Of course, he didn't mention that you're taking away multiples of the Lanchid's renovation costs from the capital. They don't talk about the fact that the capital has a commitment of HUF 210 billion. Tell me, which development in Budapest should not be carried out: do you not want to renovate Metro 3? The 110 billion-dollar loan was not mentioned by the Prime Minister, nor does it say that there are tens of billions of withdrawal. Only yesterday, 5 billion were withdrawn from the capital. Since it's an open letter, it's just very fresh, I got it this morning and I read [[He's showing me a sheet of paper.]] Then it would be worth waving this open letter to the Prime Minister, or at least to Minister Palkovic, an extremely large number of actors and renowned actors from the University of Theatre and Film Arts, protesting against the transformation you are about to make. It's worth waving around when you're about to make a splash. [[11.10]] But the biggest lie isn't even their statements of opposition, we like it, it blows, it's what people are promised. These are the biggest lies. On April 27th, Prime Minister promised me to believe that everyone will have a job in three months. You have 27 days to do that. You have 27 days to get a job for the 130,000 people who have lost their jobs since then. They don't look so good. We don't even know what's going on with the jobs of state firms. Prime Minister has promised, but Minister Gulyás has already said that there will be no such thing. What's more, you claim that the government spends more on health and social spending than the previous governments. If you really want to spend more, why don't those in the social sector get the HUF 500,000 salary supplement? There's money for hunting exhibitions, propaganda, visual investment, isn't there? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Missed the stadium! You'll get a black mark!]] Ninety-three thousand people have no money for 46 billion, 30 billion for such unnecessary costs?
u2020-07-01-2	Mr. Congressman, thank you very much. Your time frame is over.
u2020-07-01-3	[[Speaking in parallel with the president, he concludes his contribution:]] We propose to the government that people at risk in the crisis be helped and not the opposition accused of lies. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-4	Congressman, your time frame is over. I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-01-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to begin by saying that it is the 1st of July, Semmelweis Day, and generally the day of public service workers, and I would like to thank you for your sacrifice, your work for all those who work in these sectors and have chosen to serve the public not as a job but as a real profession. Without them, we could not have achieved the success of the last 30 years, and in recent months we could not have managed the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic in an international comparison as successfully as Hungary finally managed it. Therefore, they deserve all respect and appreciation. You started with this, so we could also say that we agree on this, but the fact is that your party partner, Mr. Mayor Gergely Karácsony, used this opportunity as well as the opportunities of previous weeks to attack the government on a political basis, and he also wanted to crown his political thesis related to the sarcasm of Budapest by painting graffiti, in which your fellow factions participated, on the roads of the capital of Budapest. So that is the case, and this is once again a fact that you, the Dialogue, have been given overwork by Hungarian people and those working in the public service because of their political hysteria. The workers in the municipal sector had to remove the graffiti you painted on the roads of the capital city of Budapest by ordering overtime. For your political hysteria and political hysteria, the Hungarian people and those working in the Hungarian public service had to take responsibility for both cleaning up and tidying up. So I think that if we have encountered such situations in the last few days, and this is just an example of the harvest of the last few months, then what you have said in the public administration and in the public service is simply not credible. The position of Mayor Gergely Christmas is equally uncredited. I think of the joke that the math teacher asks the student that if your father is 40 and your mother is 35, then how old are the two of them together? The student thinks and says 70. When the math teacher starts to wonder: how is 70, the answer from the student is that Mom always denies five years. Now, I have the same feeling about Lord Mayor Gergely Christmas. He's always [[Gergely Arató: Mr President, order him to order order. What a sexist thing to say. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What is this understanding? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] He constantly denies government support from the municipal sector. So he simply denies the facts and claims something that doesn't cover reality. Because if you look at the budget law, and this is not about political, ideological battles, it's about numbers issues, look at the budget, this is what Parliament is going to vote on, 16 percent more on the municipal support line than it was this year. Next year, the municipalities will receive 16 percent more. Through this, the government would also like to express its appreciation for the workers in the municipalities and the municipalities who have taken their part in the national cooperation and have taken their part in the protection against the coronal virus. There were a lot of people like that. The Hungarian people joined forces, the government joined forces, the health workers joined forces, the local government workers joined forces, the law enforcement workers joined forces, and this was the result of the successful epidemic management. He was the only person in the Hungarian public life who was consciously left out, and consciously contradicted this cooperation. This Hungarian opposition [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Lies!]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Lies!]] And you're a prominent member of that. Undoubtedly, it is irrefutablely true that you did not participate in this cooperation, but used time for political battles and produced false news. (Dr. Agnes Vadai: Lies!) Therefore, the apology would be entirely justified on your part, not because of us, but because of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-01-6	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the lessons learned from crisis management. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-07-01-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Now that the emergency caused by the coronal virus epidemic has just given the country a break and the period of the epidemiology, which now lasts for three months, but can be extended indefinitely, it is time to make a reckoning. A decade ago, a global crisis has helped to establish the power formation that is now called NER. As a lesson learned from the financial crisis that was gaining strength and becoming global in 2008, despite all the electoral passwords, Fidesz and Orbán did not form an alliance with the Hungarian society that was hit by the crisis, but with national capital banks that survived and enriched the crisis with state aids and money transfers and multinational economic operators. To date, this deal continues to work steadfastly, and this has determined, among other things, the management of the crisis and the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic by the domestic government. In the light of this deal, it is clear why the government rejected all proposals aimed at direct financial support for Hungarians in difficulty. And, of course, we know that the Prime Minister was able to say in the choir that there was no direct financial support for Hungarians suffering from the crisis, because where would people's self-esteem be? Therefore, Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit system has not been changed, despite the crisis, the number of registered job seekers, according to the National Employment Service data, has increased by 43,4 percent to 363 thousand people. It also shows who matters to the government that, when the limited resources for job retention were tried to distribute in addition to the usual unnecessary administration and aim badly, it was not the criticism of experts, not entrepreneurs, that led the government to change within a few days, but again the concerns of the multinationals were the decisive ones. Of course, there's nothing surprising about that. We have learned from the news that it is not the people who have lost their jobs or the forcedly redesigning Hungarian entrepreneurs or health workers who have worked superhumanly to combat the epidemic, who should not only be valued in words, according to the government, the problems of teachers or social workers should be resolved in the first place, but one of the most important issues is the multi-promotion of you, such as the Audi, which, according to its reports, has generated almost HUF 2000 billion in profits over the last ten years, and out of it more than HUF 1800 billion in dividends, which was simply exported out of the country by Audi. Obviously, this company must be further helped by the Hungarian taxpayers' money, so that the principle that the risk is common is unbroken, i.e. the bill is paid by the Hungarian taxpayers, of course, the profit is private, and the company goes into the pockets of its owners. [[11.20]] So let us be clear: Again, the Audit was not supported with budget money because the factory might have been ruined and the economy of the Western Hungarian region would have gone bankrupt, but because in Viktor Orbán's system such a multi-company can enforce its will against the government without any problems, because one of the NER's basics is to buy the multi-players, essentially buying their goodwill. So the government economic policy that builds on the exclusivity of the automotive industry and consciously keeping Hungarian people's wages low as a means of competitiveness has failed and thus makes Hungary vulnerable. It is clear that the owners of multinationals could overcome today's problems without any problems at a time of abundance, but why would they put their own money in it if they could count on the Hungarian taxpayers' money as well. Thus, multinationals did not suffer from the epidemic, and even the title of job protection could be sold essentially as a project to the Hungarian electorate. This is very deceitful, because the Hungarian government basically described the unemployed. It is quite clear that, in addition to the multinationals, national capitalists have to be addressed, as besides the multinationals, the Hungarian oligarchs are supported by the government in the crisis, rather than funding initiatives that serve the well-being and livelihood of society. And, yes, 2019 was also extremely successful for the emblematic figures of NER, as national capitalists such as Mészáros, Tiborcz, Garancsi, Szíyi's companies made a large share of government orders for HUF 26,5 billion this year, and this is not the full figure. If our proposal on dividend tax had been accepted, these players would have paid HUF 18.5 billion of special taxes, of which 115 thousand Hungarians could have been saved. And here I'm not going to tell you about the 18 billion forints that Lőrinc Mészáros received, who, by the way, fired 850 people. So it is clear that the current economic policy cannot continue because it does not solve major social issues and exhausts the material, mental and physical resources of the country and people with artificially low wages. We need a new economic model. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-01-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-01-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am not surprised that if we are talking about lessons from crisis management, then a opposition party is criticizing the government, which is what it is, after all. I'm not surprised that your party and you put the emphasis on this matter elsewhere. After all, the most important thing in our approach is that we manage to protect jobs. Many decisions have been made, many decisions have been made, but they all point in the same direction and are all about protecting jobs. As regards the number of jobs, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of people employed has decreased by 130,000 in the months behind us. Our goal is to get these jobs back. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of registered job seekers in Hungary has been decreasing for the second week. This goal, job creation and protection was served by wage subsidies for job protection, wage subsidies for job creation, wage subsidies for research and development, temporary tax waivers, and the government also decided to suspend credit repayments until the end of the year, starting today for another half a year. I would like to report to you that 1.2 million workers have already been able to provide some help. The grants are not only for large companies, not only for multinationals, but also for medium-sized and small companies. I suggest you look into the numbers, and the number of people employed will tell you that there will be a lot more small businesses with this type of support than big ones. And it's not a one-time thing. If you look at the draft budget for next year, on which we are voting this week, you will see that there is an Economic Protection Fund that will also serve these objectives. So there is a huge difference between the left and the crisis management approach of the current government. This is not a austerity policy, it is not a question of the government cutting the biggest items, but of how different social actors, families, businesses could get even more help in the crisis. This is also due to the fact that, after all, the Hungarian economy has grown a lot in recent years, not only has it grown, but we are standing much stronger on our own feet, we are not so vulnerable. The fact that austerity policy is not just part of the past in the case of the left is a good indication of what they are thinking about. Even now, he has shown that they are thinking about tax increases; but not only in what he has mentioned. Let's take a look at your party's election program. You know what's in there? He probably knows. 12, 24 and 36 percent income tax. So, unlike the 15 we have now, if you were in power, there would be a 36 percent tax rate. It's a massive, a giant tax increase. I suggest you don't want that. The country rejected it. I think that when it comes to economic crisis management, we need to talk about other aspects. You should know that the government has launched a consultation on a coronal virus, in which economic issues also have a strong role to play. Allow me to highlight some of these. One is a production capacity issue. You have seen the fierce competition for protective equipment, so it is a strong question of how we can stand on our own feet in terms of production capacities. Otherwise, this applies not only to ventilators, but also to other products. Another issue concerns the question of public burdens. We believe that multinationals, banks and municipalities should also take part in the common burden, even if they receive more resources not less than next year. That's what we think. We are also interested in the opinion of the Hungarians, and I urge you to take this position, even if you have already done so with regard to the municipalities. It is also important to protect strategic industries, such as tourism. Many steps have already been taken here, but further steps are needed, which is why this topic is included in the consultation. And to mention one more thing: you know that there is a big debate on the EU budget, not only with the seven-year-old, but also with the rescue package. It doesn't matter at all what the direct support is within the large amount of 750 billion, what the loan is and what the eternal bond action or presentation is that the billionaire in question has proposed. That is why this issue is included in the consultation. You can see that these are not questions of a party political nature, but of a political nature, but of all our lives, so I urge you to be a refreshing exception to your party and not to interfere with dialogue, but to take a stand on these issues. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-10	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the DK Group, applied for a pre-meeting address:, After a special school year. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-01-11	Dear House, There is no doubt that Hungarian education has closed a special school year. At the time of the epidemiological emergency, the participants in education, teachers, students, parents, made a joint effort to continue education. Teachers at home prepared the curriculum, the questionnaires, kept in touch with parents and students, the students sat at home under the circumstances they had at their disposal, in front of the computer or paper, and did the tasks, and the parents helped this work out of power. Thank them. However, there are three lessons to be learned from this situation, which is worth considering. The first is that especially those students who live in poor families with a difficult fate were in a difficult situation at the time of the emergency. In these families, these students do not have any computer tools in the vast majority of cases, according to surveys, one fifth of Hungarian students do not have adequate tools and adequate internet access for remote work or remote learning at home, and of course parents were much less able to help in these families. You may say, Mr Orbán, that the opposition has not helped to defend itself in a crisis, but that is a lie, Mr State Secretary. Civil society organisations, local governments, including in particular opposition-led municipalities, and indeed opposition parties, were the ones who brought computers and laptops to these students. You've forgotten them. They forgot about parents and forgot about teachers, didn't get methodological help, didn't get help with tools, didn't get proper tasks. You have failed to support this work in the field of education. The government was the weak player in this system that did not support home learning. You guys were so full of it that you told me to switch to digital education over the weekend, but it's not helping, it's a regulation. We ask you not to be cowards, to face the situation. Let's face it, there's gonna be a lot more students left behind in this situation. Don't send handcuffed, sticky school guards to schools, but support schools, support school catching up programs, send school psychologists, send more mental health professionals, more pedagogical assistants, help catch up and work. [[11.30]] The second lesson was that the independence of schools and the autonomy of teachers are particularly critical in this situation. Stop pushing the centralized, Avít, Prussian and pointless National Basics, the new national curriculum, the strain of poor quality textbooks! Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár, you had an argument with history teachers as a lawyer, because it seems that lawyers are good at everything, but let's be honest, this experiment was very weak when you tried professionally to argue for new textbooks, to explain to history teachers what a good history book was like. I must say, unfortunately, this has been a pathetic success. Give back the autonomy of the schools, let them teach. They know how to do it, and the government doesn't. Finally, it has been shown that the most important resource in education is the skills, expertise and enthusiasm of teachers. This summer, you don't pick out teachers' eyes with a ten-percent allowance, and when we proposed in the budget, many of us from the opposition side, that the 35 percent deficit that is in the teacher's wages compared to your promise, we make up for it, then you voted against it. Once again, we were trying to fulfill your promise, and you said that by the way, the wage bill will tie teachers' wages to the minimum wage. That's a promise they've broken. Yet you voted against it, you don't care about teachers. I know that Secretary of State Rétvári, as always, will tell you that the Gyurcsány government has taken salaries from teachers, but this, as always, is a lie. The wages of the first-time teachers were 42 700 forints in 2002 and 122 thousand forints in 2010. Even if the 13th month salary is taken into account, this is still a 166 percent increase. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You took it!]] Do it after us. By the way, did they give you back the 13th month's wages, or can they just talk about it? Finally, this year you are preparing a transformation of higher education that is in no way invented, which does not have the conditions. That's how you jump into the dark. The most shameful of this is the case of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, which you want to organise for obvious political purposes. We all got a letter this morning signed by over 80 famous artists. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Mr. Szilárd Németh, I will tell you who they are, although I do not know how these names will tell you something. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Read this, it is about the greats of Hungarian culture.
u2020-07-01-12	Congressman, your time frame has run out. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-13	Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-14	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Allow me to quote you, Your Honour. You said after Ferenc Arató Gergely Gyurcsány, he was reverberated:. Total madness at the peak of the epidemic arranges graduation. This one sentence describes your responsibility, but in reality, your completely irresponsible behaviour in the field of education during the coronal virus epidemic, as you would have closed the schools overnight without the students losing their semester of doubt about teachers' salaries and not even held a diploma, which means that 84,300 students couldn't have graduated. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] But it turns out that all of their claims were wrong and wrong. And if you had made decisions in the field of Hungarian education, students would have made millions, teachers for hundreds of thousands of numbers, and graduates for tens of thousands of numbers would have been in a much, much, much harder situation than they are now. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] The exams were held at 1144 locations, no matter how much they protested against it, they passed 355 300 exams, and fortunately, because the protection measures were sufficient, therefore, no epidemiological risk was identified. That was the other comments you made, honourable Member. You claimed that there were no digital tools that could help students in schools. 350,000 digital devices are available in schools, and most of them, who requested them, could take them home and learn from them at home. If I only look at how many tickets were entered for students in the KRÉTA system in June in the framework of digital education: 17 236 403 marks were recorded in the KRÉTA system along the digital working order for Hungarian students in their checker virtually. You could see that if you wanted to see it, the M5 channel broadcasted educational content along different themes from morning to evening. You said there was no methodological recommendation. Honourable Congressman, In the first days it was downloaded, and many tens of thousands of teachers and even hundreds of thousands of teachers have downloaded it from the Education Office's website on the first day, even that weekend. The total number of student evaluations in the Krêta system exceeded 57 million, honourable Member. There were days when 700,000 tickets were recorded in this Kreta system. However, I agree with you that the Hungarian teachers who switched to a digital work order in a very short period of time and had a lot of creative solutions, but also parents in Hungary, as they would also be entitled to a virtual Eötvös Prize this semester, because they were the ones who re-created the textbook with their children, took out the digital curriculum and moved along with the students. Hungarian teachers and Hungarian parents should be recognised. If we look at it, one of the best in Europe has succeeded in taking on this barrier, too, the obstacles caused by the coronal virus epidemic, honourable Member. Let me briefly rebut one or two of your sentences. You say that the new NAT and the new textbooks could damage the autonomy of schools. Honourable Congressman, They raise the free-to-use watch frame to 20 percent, in Hungarian, each teacher has a much greater opportunity, each school has its own character, much greater opportunities. You say how untimely the new NAT is. In addition to being much more modern than before, and textbooks, if you only look at the history book, are 60 pages shorter. So the exact need to reduce the curriculum is now visible in a number of pages, it can also be seen in a calculus, and it all provides additional opportunities within the walls of schools and classrooms. But perhaps the most important thing today is that today, every teacher in Hungary's wages rise by 10 percent. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] , sectoral and professional allowances are paid to all teachers employed in teaching work in Hungary. And not only is their salary rising, but there is also a rise in the wages of school directors, school directors' alternates and member institution managers. This means that today a master educator leading a school of more than 1000 people, who has also obtained the Master's degree, has a university degree and has 35 years on the field, and can earn up to HUF 858 690. But he who manages a smaller institution of over 400 people, has been teaching for 35 years, has a 2 degree in teaching and has a university degree, he can bring home 688,000 forints, and in addition to 6,000 directors, there are 9,000 surrogates, and all teachers have a 10 percent increase in salary from today. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-07-01-16	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda: on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Every year the 1st of July is the celebration of Hungarian health care. On this day Ignatius Semmelweis was born, who was known as the savior of mothers; Mr President also introduced him. He was the first to see a baby's bed fever as a result of an infection, not an individual disease. It is a very important sentence, because to date we can say that we are talking about one of the most serious problems in Hungary, because you know that my fellow Members today die from hospital infection in hospitals than in road accidents.In November 2010, a bill was tabled proposing to declare Semmelweis Day as a public holiday to express recognition of the work done by health workers, in order to recognise the work done by health workers and increase their prestige. The proposal entered into force in 2011. At the same time, it should be said that today is also a day for civil servants and government officials. It is true that this day was also a public holiday for these workers at the time, but on 1 January 2017, an amendment to the law came into force by which you abolished this day as a public holiday. I think that we should pay tribute to all health workers, all civil servants and government officials. But we also need to talk about whether we are going to accept it on Friday, or whether you are going to accept the budget for 2021. I would like to quote you from a letter from the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which we are talking about on health care day 2020. Published on the 29th of V. [[11.40]] Mr. Prime Minister, During the coronal virus epidemic, the Hungarian medical society took over the risk of their own life and the lives of their loved ones, while the epidemic showed that the structural and financial renewal of Hungarian health has now become permanent. Without a solid and flexible and efficient public service, the country's society and economy can suffer serious damage within a short period of time. You know that private health is not a solution in itself and it is not accessible to millions of Hungarians: not only at a more serious stage of the epidemic, but for organisational and equipment reasons, it is not able to operate in the stressful period of restarting healthcare to guarantee full patient safety. In the meantime, the Government has submitted the budget for 2021 to Parliament. The planned 9,6 percent increase in preventive medical benefits in the chapter of the budget entitled Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund does not cover health care operations that guarantee patient safety or increase in costs due to the risk of disease and does not cover the wages needed to keep health workers on the field and at home. Health workers have proved themselves in hospitals, and society has applauded as one in recognition of their work. Prime Minister, you now have the opportunity to change: the aim is to bring to life a viable health system accessible to all and ensuring that young professionals stay home. Compared to this, the government distributed HUF 194 billion last night in the Hungarian Gazette. Hold on to these 194 billion forints. 404 million forints to health care, 404 million forints out of 194 billion forints! Another 10 billion forints were spent on sports, almost 700 million forints a day during the epidemic, almost 700 million forints a day! Compared with the words of Secretary of State Dömötör, fierce competition for protective equipment was established. Secretary of State, in the first month there was fierce competition for workers, social workers, health workers and Hungarian people, so that they could obtain the protective equipment at their own expense, because you did not provide it for months. What are we talking about? I just want to ask you one question, Mr Secretary of State: will you take into account the opinion of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the profession, when the budget will be adopted tomorrow? We also submitted amendments, of course everything was voted down, even though our amendments were made on the basis of the amendments proposed by the Hungarian Medical Chamber and the profession. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Secretary of State, you will take this into account. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the opinion of the profession, exactly when we're talking about Semmelweis Day? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-01-18	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-01-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Do you want more resources for Hungarian health care or not? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] If you want more, vote on the budget on Friday, because it will increase health resources in Hungary by HUF 156 billion. If you had voted in favour of the budgets in previous years, you would have increased, overall, by 77 percent, by more than 900 billion forints, the amounts that the Hungarian budget would have spent on health care, and you would have been able to improve something from what your government did before 2010, when it was not about a health wage increase, and it was not about the rate of wage increases, but you reduced your wages, for all Hungarian nurses, for all Hungarian doctors, it was a wage reduction, and 6,000 other medical workers were also dismissed. The current situation is completely different when we are talking about the scale of wage increases, the situation is completely different in the year of crisis when we say that although 2020 is indeed a very, very difficult economic year for the whole of Europe and around the world because of the coronal virus epidemic, this year we will not reduce wages in health care as you did when you governed, but we will increase it twice: in January we increased the pay of nurses by 14 percent, and in November we will increase the pay of nurses by 20 percent; in the year of crisis, there will be 34 percent increase. And not only in health care, but also in education, there is a 10% increase from now on, and in the case of a 50 percent increase for school directors in general, a 14 percent increase for social workers and a 6 percent increase for cultural workers, in the year of the crisis, Madam honourable Member, and we would obviously like to continue this in the coming years. If, therefore, you really want additional resources in Hungarian health, you should, on the one hand, ask your fellow factions to account for the hundreds of billions of forints that were released from health before 2010, since according to OECD reports, your government was the only government in the period 2004-2010 to reduce per capita health expenditure in proportion to GDP, there was no other OECD Member State, the then left-wing Hungary was the only one of all OECD Member States that has reduced health expenditure in per capita since then the seventh largest increase in the health budget in Hungary. If, therefore, you really want additional resources to be provided next year, if you want to have coverage of the two-speed increase in nursing salaries this year, if you want to have coverage of the epidemiological preparedness, as we hear the news every day, in which country the number of infected people will rise again, in which country restrictive measures will be introduced again, if you want both wages and epidemiological preparedness to be covered, then vote on next year's budget and add 156 billion HUF to the health sector in Hungary, honourable Member. We could not count on you to defend health, nor when we should have discussed a bill speeding up, nor when we should have extended the emergency situation due to the epidemic, nor when there was a vote on the epidemiological preparedness here in Parliament. They were very strong in fake news production, they were very strong in transmitting various fake news, because they sought and searched for people with consequences that could have attacked the government, but after several weeks of finding that they couldn't find it, so they produced a false news, they published a video of what was shared on Facebook, in as many places as possible, and so they tried to discredit the government, but within 24 hours they found out that it was already untrue in the introduction, which they said in that video, honourable Member. If it were up to you, the patients with the coronal virus would have paid a visitation fee when they went to diagnose whether they had a coronal virus or not, when, say, they would have gone for a test. Or if it were up to you, who were in the hospital with a coronal viral disease, you would have had to pay a daily allowance. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] "Hospital daily allowance to be treated with coronal viral disease in the hospital. This was your health system, honourable Member, which was only abolished by a referendum in Hungary when Fidesz-KDNP took the lead. You would therefore have been a great danger, Madam honourable Member, because you have not been concerned with helping Hungary. When 8 million masks were said to be enough to protect the warehouse, it was 80 million. They said the warehouses were empty; when we let you in, they said they had to distribute them immediately, because they found them, they did have protective equipment. And what did you do during the emergency? From Euronews to the Financial Times, you have been spreading false news, honourable Member. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If you want additional resources for Hungarian health care, vote in favour of next year's budget! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-20	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title Semmelweis-napra. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-01-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are celebrating the day of Hungarian health care, Semmelweis Ignác Day, Semmelweis Day, which is also the day of Hungarian health workers, all health workers. Let me begin by thanking those workers, of course, not exhaustively listed, doctors, nurses, or physiotherapists, pacic workers, paramedics, or even, who we forget a lot about, the nurses who work in the healthcare system and do everything they can every day in terms of healing and nursing. But let us also remember those who work in health care, and even by administrative or physical work they help Hungarian healthcare to remain operational 24 hours a day. Allow me to thank them, not only in the last year, but also in this spring, because it is not only about the past year, but not only about the reckoning of a year on Semmelweis Day, but also about the hard work of the past weeks and months. [[11.50]] I think that all of you should be recognised, including those working with them and those working closely with them in the social sphere and those working in the care system. But speaking of the epidemic, the epidemic had an opportunity and a feature, which, in addition to its many losses, could have a useful result by pointing out where the challenge is in health care. It pointed out where to improve GP, hospital or otherwise specialist care, where to improve health care in connection with the social sphere and its integration. It is clear that, while we are talking about healthcare workers, one of the major problems of health care is one of them, and unfortunately this is also a trend at global level, at European level, that the wages of healthcare workers usually do not reach the average wages of the national economy, or in very many cases they fall behind. Especially the waist, the wages of the nurses are extremely low. Not to mention that, by the way, they paid little more than the worst paid social workers, so there is definitely a need for improvement in this area. The second is the question of working conditions, since it is not enough to have a salary or some kind of earner for his work, but it is also important to know the conditions under which he does his work. Therefore, focusing on these two Jobbik has been saying this unbrokenly for years, and this is what we recommend to the government for consideration on Semmelweis Day, that it is time to introduce a clearly visible model of career in health care, which contains a pay table, that is to say, it is clear from it that doctors and professionals working in health care will benefit from their advancement, and that this will be forinted, so in terms of pay. Without this, it is not possible to look forward to a substantial increase in the number of people working in the health care sector and to a sustainable career. Another thing that is extremely important here is the issue of working conditions, as this is also very important for Hungarian doctors, Hungarian nurses or even pharmacists and physiotherapists to do their job properly. It is important to give them safe conditions. And security is about making them feel not only financially safe, but also physically secure. There is a very poor tendency in Hungary that the amount of infections caused by the healthcare system has not been visible for a while, but what we see from it is extremely high. In Hungary, almost as many people die from hospital infections as in road accidents. This number should be substantially reduced, because this not only poses a very serious challenge for patients who are being cared for there, but also for workers, and for workers who work very often on second and third shifts, otherwise it results in a rather dangerous and unworthy situation. The third thing we need to talk about is the current wage supplement. We still encourage the government to give the wage supplement that arrives in the days, which is 500 thousand forints, but unfortunately it is only 500 thousand forints gross, so the government will consider giving it to you in a net amount of 322 thousand forints in many cases, so that the government will give it to you in fact to be the right 500 thousand forints that are actually available. The other is for everyone to benefit from this, for we have seen that pharmacists or even physiotherapists have missed this opportunity. In conclusion, on Semmelweis Day, we all share a shared responsibility and the common goal of all of us is to settle working conditions, wages and security on the one hand. Jobbik, as a conservative right-wing party, has the responsibility and role to support a health care system that is a strong public health care system, and which takes care of health workers and patients working in it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-01-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-01-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Semmelweis Day is also a good opportunity to be proud of the Hungarian health care system, the Hungarian healthcare system and the Hungarian health care workers. Perhaps many people remember that it happened a few weeks ago, when the coronal virus epidemic spread all over the world, even Google switched its small search image to Semmelweis Ignac, because Hungarian health care has a world name. When we read today about the different comparisons between which health system and which country has performed during the coronal virus epidemic, how they have been able to protect their own citizens from being sick and having serious consequences for the coronal virus epidemic, then Hungary has certainly been at the European forefront, and we can show a much better result in defence than Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium, Italy or Spain, or even the United States of America. Yet they were much weaker in defense than we Hungarians. This is why we obviously have to thank doctors, nurses, pharmacists and everyone else who worked and worked in the field of health today, because their position, their rapid adaptation, their courage and their innovativeness were also needed to successfully survive the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary, and to successfully defend themselves against other countries. And thank all Hungarian people, of course, because Hungarian people have done a great deal to ensure that neither they themselves, nor their family members, nor their acquaintances, nor their friends are infected. It is important that we take care of this as well, because the epidemiological threat is far from over, so on Semmelweis Day, Hungarian health workers are also very grateful. A symbolic representation of this is the HUF 500,000 benefit that Hungarian healthcare workers receive. Here we are talking about 170,000 people who are receiving this benefit today, these days, and more than 100 billion forints is what the government is spending for this purpose, in the days it will allocate 100 billion forints to health workers, thanking them for protecting Hungarian people, protecting Hungarian families during the very difficult and unknown period of the coronal virus epidemic. We would like to continue this, honourable Member, also when we decide on next year's budget, which will contain HUF 156 billion more in health expenditure than this year's budget, and it contains HUF 918 billion more than the budget we inherited from your allies in 2010. After all, there is obviously a need for additional resources, and there is a result. There is a result of the 77 percent increase in the health budget, as life expectancy in Hungary has slowly increased by two years over the last ten years. There are many factors to this, including the development of health care, and obviously there are many other lifestyle factors in the development of life expectancy. But it is also an important factor, honourable Member, that I can say to you as a good news that the number of people who have died from hospital infections in Hungary has decreased, and we are at the same level as Western European countries, such as Finland, and we are able to produce better results in relation to hospital infections than we are, and this is also due to the measures and additional resources that have occurred in recent years or decades, honourable Member. And it is very important to pay what you have said; it has highlighted nursing wages. Let me highlight it, because this is indeed the area where we need to make the most progress. We have seen that the departure of doctors from Hungary has decreased greatly, with more than two thirds of the number of people who have applied for permission to work abroad and more than 1500 have not gone out, but I am returning from abroad and working at home. But in terms of nurses, it was important to move forward, and that is why the government decided to increase the wages of health care workers by 72 percent in four years, twice this year, by 14 percent in January, by 20 percent in November. This year we will only spend HUF 82 billion on these wage increases as a surplus in the budget, even when there is obviously a difficult economic situation in all European countries, when the epidemiological defense cost hundreds of billions of HUF, we will still spend HUF 82 billion on health wage increases this year. But not only in the case of nurses, you can see an increase, but you can also see that, let's say, the income of a GP practice has increased from around 800 thousand forints a month to 1.5 million forints a decade. Thank you all for Semmelweis Day, who works in health care. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-01-24	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-01-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is indeed a holiday, because we remember Ignác Semmelweis, the savior of mothers, and in this case we clearly pay tribute to what Mr. President did today at the beginning of the meeting, and many have already spoken to health workers on this issue; people who work in health care every day, as Lajos Kossuth said, are also serving their vocations every day in order to protect their country. [[12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are three professions that must always be mentioned with great respect, because the people who are looking after our security, police officers, soldiers and others who are providing this protection service every day, thank you, especially in crisis situations, migration crises, and now, most recently, in the crisis caused by the outbreak of the Crown Virus in the spring. There is thanks and respect for those who work in education, people who spend their lives professionally to bless future generations, our children, with values and prepare them for the challenges of life, so they should also be honoured and thanked. With regard to Semmelweis Day, of course, I would like to say a few words about health care workers, doctors, specialists, nurses, surgeons, surgeons, paramedics, simple nurses and many others, about the 200,000 people who actually do their jobs every day and save people's lives, heal patients. And indeed, because we know what the disease means, we know who we can count on in the trouble, who learn it, take the Hippocratic oath practically, and in this they practice and pursue many and beautiful concepts professionally. In parentheses, let me say that it is sad that there are left-wing politicians who, by the way, refer to Mengele as regards doctors, even want to name space, but this is just a parentheses note. We certainly don't think that way, we know exactly the storms of history, and we know what black darkness has engulfed the world, and what horrors Nazism may have caused by brown dictatorship or red dictatorship. However, when I return to health care workers, I myself often visit health care workers at St. Imre's Hospital every Christmas, and we show our respect and thanks, but even now during the epidemic, the work they have done is exemplary. One thing's for sure, there's a state exam, a government exam in the crisis. A hundred years ago, an unprecedented pandemic swept through 188 countries of the world, and it was definitely a test for all of us, but especially for our health care, so that it could cope and provide the sick, the infected, and give as many people as possible a good chance of life and bring it back to health. The Hungarian health system passed a good test. The Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, has also passed the exam, Hungary's defence system has passed the test well, all kinds of international examples show this, we also stand our ground in comparison, Hungary has performed among the best. We also took human exams, we all took exams, volunteers and others, health care workers, especially those who were not afraid of the disease, who stood up to the ground. Obviously, it was a huge test for the government, too, because all those protective equipment, those devices, the millions of masks, the ventilator, thousands of ventilators and many others, all of this enormous work was done by the government in an exemplary manner. So thank you to the public bodies, thank you to the operational tribe and everyone who has done their job in this work. It has also become a certainty for everyone, for the Hungarian people, who they can count on in the trouble, who they can count on when there is danger, and who they could clearly rely on the government, who could count on public bodies, and who could count on the professional attitude of health care workers. So thank you for that. In fact, the five minutes that are now available before the agenda would also have expressed our thanks if I had kept saying thank you for five minutes, but let me say a little more about this before the agenda. I hope that health care workers will continue to endure, we hope that another wave of the epidemic will not reach us, and we hope that there will be no such epidemic anywhere, but one thing is certain, on this day we would like to show our love and respect from this House to those working in health. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-07-01-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, in really critical situations, it is clear how a health system can cope in such a stressful situation on the one hand, and I think that the Hungarian health system is beyond the expectations of many opposition critics, but it is very well-suited. Many spoke abusively about the Hungarian health system, mainly from the opposition political side to the Hungarian health system from political intent, and now the coronal virus epidemic has shown that there are so well-prepared people working in the Hungarian health system, and the system itself works by bringing many unfortunate mortality data from the corona virus epidemics in other Western European countries, but here in Hungary we were better able to protect Hungarian people than in the countries richer than we are. On the other hand, such a critical situation has shown that the Hungarian people can join together. Now they've been able to unite here by keeping everyone at home, which was the strange way to work together. And it is extremely regrettable that, while there were countries in Western Europe where internal ethnic divisions even make it difficult for the internal political situation, it was still able to join forces with the government side and opposition; there are no such features in Hungary, but the opposition has not been able to form a unit in the defence against the coronal virus and help us to defend itself as quickly and effectively as possible. But fortunately, this did not negatively affect the work of healthcare workers, and to thank all of them today, double and triple, not only by giving 170 thousand health workers a gross HUF 500 thousand allowance of HUF 101 billion in total, but also in all other ways. Obviously, at 8:00 p.m. or at 8:00 p.m., we thank them for their work, but in all other ways, they were excellently tested during such a very difficult pandemic, we are proud of the Hungarian doctors, we are proud of the Hungarian nurses, because they showed that Hungarian doctors and the Hungarian nurses are able to stand their ground at global level, and they can defend themselves more effectively than other countries and other richer countries with their health systems. In recent years, we have also tried to create the conditions for this in various forms of care: with the partial or full renovation of 91 rural hospitals, the renovation of 54 clinics and the renovation of 107 rescue stations. If we're just looking at what an ambulance really has to do, let's give them a minute alone. It was the rescue staff who went to the families where he was suspected of being a coronal virus and took samples, and in the first period the potential patient was brought in, and then the sample was taken under heavy load protective equipment, and then the ambulances were disinfected. They worked on the front line, and they had to put up with one of the biggest pressures they had against an unknown disease. It is important that 254 new ambulances arrive at the National Rescue Service this year. If I count the last few years, more than 800 new ambulances have already arrived at the National Rescue Service, so we tried to renovate 107 rescue stations and build 34 new rescue stations to help them with their work. In addition, we have built 23 completely new clinics in Hungary. But it is important that testing capacities have also increased. If I only look at CT scans, while in 2010 762,000 studies were carried out in one year, there have been 1 million 252 thousand studies in the last few years in one year. While 15 billion forints were previously spent on this in 2010, we now spend 30 billion forints a year on this, so there is a 64 percent increase in the number of CT scans, and the coverage of this is ensured by the annual health budget. On the contrary, what did the opposition do? One opposition representative snuck in the back door and showed that visitors use protective equipment from doctors and nurses inside the hospital. That was such a lie that the hospital reported this congressman. Benedek Jávor was so small that it was a relatively harmless epidemic, and Gergely Arató even said on ATV that unfortunately the country was doing well in terms of mortality rates. And Szabó Timea here in Parliament said that most people die in Hungary, which we have repeatedly denied. They attacked the defense, minimized the performance of the defense workers, we acknowledge today and 365 days of the year. And on Semmelweis Day, cheers to health workers. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.10]]
u2020-07-01-28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-01-29	Mr President, Dear House, Hungary has successfully completed the first phase of protection against the coronal virus. The absence of a mass epidemic is due to at least three things: decisions taken in time, cooperation and discipline, and the devotional work of excellent professionals. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I would like to thank all the people involved in the defense for their sacrifices, and thank you very much for the careful and prepared work of health workers on Semmelweis Day. Dear House, In winning the first stage of protection against the virus, Hungary also played an outstanding and indispensable role in Hungary's defence. The Hungarian soldiers have participated in almost all areas of defense and are still involved to this day. We can remember that defence control tribes have helped with the work of companies that are essential for the country's continued operation. The task force responsible for the security of vital Hungarian companies sent 105 control groups to such companies, ensuring the continued supply of citizens. The military police patrold 17 settlements, supported by police officers, checked compliance with curfew rules, ensured a calm, orderly lifestyle in public areas and markets. Our soldiers also helped us in health and social institutions. 108 health institutions have been assisted and continue to be assisted by hospital commanders. Their task is primarily to provide and protect tools, materials and medical directors for seamless and continuous healing, and to relieve them of the burden so that they can focus on healing. In the courtyard of St. László Hospital, a Camp Hospital of the type Role-1 was built, and at several locations in the country, pre-filter tents were installed at the entrances of hospitals, and in the case of homeless shelters in Budapest some 20 pre-filtered tents were installed. They also donated tent floors, hot air blowers, sandbags, hand sanitizers, and surgical masks. Nearly a thousand nursing homes and social facilities were disinfected by Hazmat soldiers. Among other things, the home of the Pesti Road Elders that became the largest focal point. More than a hundred people were sick in this institution, and more than 50 unfortunately died. This institution is maintained by the capital, or Mayor Gergely Christmas. By the way, Gergely Christmas has not visited the institution to this day, nor have they behaved as careful maintainers. The soldiers had to sterilize it. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] It is comforting to know that an easy and heavy antiseptic group is still on standby. Dear House, The protection of our borders in the epidemiological situation has become more important and vital than ever before. We know that since 2015, the opposition has been constantly attacking the fence, criticizing the strict legal barrier. In fact, the left did not even vote for the defence to carry out a border defence task. However, the last five years have proved that our soldiers are doing indispensable work at our borders. The Hungarian Defence Office has also performed its main duties in the pandemic situation, the protection of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity and borders. In support of police work, the number of soldiers on the north and west border increased significantly from 21 March. On the Austrian and Slovak border, the Hungarian Defence Forces participated in the tasks with more than a hundred people. On the 233 km south border section, the Hungarian Defence Office is now present with nearly 200 vehicles and more than a thousand soldiers. We know that migrants also pose a strong epidemiological risk. Therefore, the epidemiological alert must also be maintained at the premises and stations of border guards, as soldiers and police officers must be protected in order to be able to serve them. Dear House, In the fight against the coronal virus, you can't bring your opponent to his knees in a traditional military sense. However, you can be detained: by cooperation, by example, by discipline. During the defence, military organisations reacted quickly and flexibly, always managed to keep up with the situation, the measures taken were operational and timely. It's said that anyone who saves even one person's life didn't live in vain. We can be proud of the sacrifice of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which could have contributed to the saving of many lives. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I would like to thank the Hungarian soldiers for all this. The Fidesz faction will continue to fully support measures to support the appreciation of Hungarian soldiers and the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr István Németh Szilárd wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-01-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, It was a really refreshing moment for these few minutes, the last two speakers' comments in this noise before the opposition agenda on the left. Both of them were concerned with those who, in accordance with their vocation and oath, contributed as much as possible to Hungary's ability to close the first phase of protection against a coronal virus epidemic against states that were richer and often more democratic and more advanced than we are. This is a very serious cooperation, very serious work, which may have been the result of the measures taken in time, but as we can see the countries around us, the epidemiological situation in Europe or the pandemic situation in the world, we can safely say that we still have to be very alert, and that is why we decided when the emergency was lifted with effect from 20 June to maintain an epidemiological alert. By the way, in your speech you highlighted the soldiers, the Hungarian Defence Forces. On their behalf, I would also like to thank you for the fact that there is a part of the Parliament horseshoe that has noticed and thanked and thanked those soldiers who have served their country with their full ability, in accordance with their oath, in this situation. With regard to Semmelweis Day, I would like to express my special thanks to the military health service, not only to the soldiers, but also to the defence employees who have done the curative, preventive and exploratory work in the institutions of the Honvéd Health Centre. I can also report to everyone here that specific tasks for hospitals, which have been defined by the operational tribe, have always been carried out as accurately and as long as possible, and thus set an example for everyone in Hungarian health care. And, as you mentioned, the defence not only helped all Hungarian hospitals through their health skills, but also with other abilities, including by setting up triage tents designed to prevent patients coming to hospitals who wanted to use the service from developing focal points. And that's why the hospital commander system has been established, which, by the way, is being maintained during the epidemiological alert period. This means 13 counties and 51 hospitals for soldiers, in which they carry out these hospital commander tasks. Of course, the most important task everyone knows is to maintain stock management in addition to security, i.e. the preparation of stocks, on the basis of the professional principles laid down by the medical director there, and the provision of them in a later period; and they also deal with the flow of information between hospitals and the operational staff and the chief officer. But you mentioned border control. I couldn't have done this without soldiers. There has been enormous pressure on the Hungarian borders since January, and then the epidemic appeared, and it became clear to everyone that from now on there are risks not only to public security but also to public health, and perhaps, as the soldiers have said, that migration is not only in hand with terrorism, but also with the Covid virus. It was very important, by the way, to completely isolate the southern borders. [[12.20]] Now, at the stage when life was restarted, we were available, the Hungarian Defence Office joined, if I may say so, the state job creation programme; this started today, by the way, this is a special voluntary reserve training. Today 440 applicants have started the six-month training offered by the Hungarian Defence Office to those who have lost their jobs. I can promise everyone here that the Hungarian Defence Office will continue to serve the country with all its capabilities, and the Hungarian soldiers will continue to serve the country as they swear, and they will continue to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-32	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Varga to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-07-01-33	Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, Fidesz; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda on Thursday: Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Varju, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Péter Jakab, Jobbik; László Földi, KDNP; László Horváth, Fidesz. On Thursday, Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP. Dóra Dúró, independent; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; László Keresztes, LMP.
u2020-07-01-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our extraordinary meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the agenda for the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of 1 and 2-3 July 2020 be added to the T/11085 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in connection with the Olympic allowance. With the negotiation and adoption of the legislative proposal No 1 as set out in the proposal for an exception adopted at the previous meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Government has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for an extraordinary meeting of 1-2-3 July 2020 be added to the T/1175 on administrative and economic changes to individual laws and provisions concerning the management of certain assets. With the negotiation and adoption of the legislative proposal No 1 as set out in the proposal for an exception adopted at the previous meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the meeting take place at 8 a.m. on Thursday, 2 July 2020. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's proposal for an extraordinary meeting of 1-2-3 July 2020 should be amended as a first in the debate on the Commission reports and the summary amendments on Thursday 2 July 2020 and in the debate on the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. Act on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and on the implementation of certain improvements and the amendment of certain laws in the context of Commission Decision SA.50768 on Hungary's film support programme. T/10736. The second is the T/10746 on the measures necessary for the establishment of the Rust Zone Action Areas. Bill No.3; third, T/10954 on the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation and on the grant of property to the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation. Bill No. 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, Both the Fidesz and Jobbik groups proposed that the decision to elect Dr. Brenner Koloman as Vice-President should take place on Friday, 3 July 2020. The Fidesz Group also initiated the decision at the end of the decisions. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. Noise.]] Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please remain in your seats for a moment. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our previous decisions, tomorrow's meeting will start at 8 a.m.; T/11085 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in relation to Olympic Benefits. The joint debate on the draft law No 1 will take place on 2 July 2020 as the first item on the agenda following the speeches before the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on 3 July 2020; the amendment of certain laws for administrative and economic recovery purposes, as well as certain provisions concerning asset management, will take place on T/1175. The consolidated debate on the draft law No 1 will take place on 2 July 2020 as a second item immediately before the debates on the Commission reports and the draft amendments, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote will take place on 3 July 2020; and the decision on the election of Dr Brenner Koloman as Vice-President will take place on Friday 3 July at the end of the decisions. Dear Parliament, We are now discussing the debates on the Commission's reports and the draft amendments. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. [[Noise. Some Members leave the Chamber]] I would like to ask my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber because of their urgent public service, to do so as quietly and as quickly as possible. Thank you for your understanding. [[12.30]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the laws concerning certain asset management and national financial services and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/10743. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-01-35	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 18 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed T/10743. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 5 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to adopt, on the basis of the experience of law enforcement, the amendments to the laws necessary for uniform interpretation of the law, and, in recent years, to bring about changes in the national assets and the management of assets through the legislation contained in the proposal. Among other things, the proposed legislation includes the integration into the integration organisation of the joint hedge fund of cooperative credit institutions, which ensures that the key guarantee rule of integration, i.e. the universality of members, is implemented in a simpler structure, but remains secure. The primary objective of the amendment to the law on the renewal and development of the City Park in the House's table is that Városliget Property Development Ltd. Városliget Property Development Ltd. should be guaranteed with respect to its trust rights without any asset management contract. its own procedural powers. The bill clarifies MNV Zrt. by adding a new provision to the State Property Act. the arrangements for representation of MNV Zrt. In view of its responsibilities. As a result of the additional provision, unlike the general rule, MNV Zrt. represent the Minister for the Supervision of State Property vis-à-vis third parties in respect of legal transactions relating to MNV Zrt. the Minister shall contribute to the performance of the Minister's activities in respect of the ownership of the property of the State under his ownership. Dear House, For the reasons set out above, we would like to ask you to support this proposal with respect. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, who has made a written statement of his intention to speak. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-07-01-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the salad law on asset management and financial services, I would like to give you the following thoughts in a few minutes. It amends 26 laws and sets out, as its aim, a uniform interpretation of the law on these two issues and leads to changes affecting national assets that affect the management of assets. Of course, there are welcome elements in this proposal, too, but I must say that I am afraid that it is not quite certain that the achievement of the welcome and noble goals is done by good means. I am very pleased that the use of brownfield areas is at all a topic in Parliament's Chamber. However, I am very concerned that these new, innovative investments in the brownfield will not be in the interests of citizens, but in the interest of further enrichment of certain economic circles. I am very pleased, too, if we are to talk about rehabilitating these areas, because we have to admit that these areas are indeed very neglected, but I would like to ask why the proposal does not include the purpose of cooperation with local authorities, because the municipalities do not want what is happening, for example, under Article XI. in the district, to cement the perimeter, they build terrifying tall houses, virtually cut down a mass of green surfaces, destroyed. What we see is that the government in the country has set the objective of concreteization on its flag. I would also like to talk about the fact that this proposal describes the integration of the savings cooperative as a very successful thing, but I would like to say that this is a business circle sitting on the money of ordinary rural people. We do not see the benefits of this series of measures that the Parliament's community and the government think have actually achieved. Finally, the issue of the National Asset Manager. The National Asset Manager may have been favourable to a certain type of foreign exchange lending community, but this was only a very soft, mild symptomatic treatment of the huge problem created by foreign exchange lending. What I would like to ask you, fellow Members, would it not have been easier to eliminate the economic imbalance of these treaties? Wouldn't it have been easier to see that if you didn't do something, you didn't have to do it? Wasn't the aim of this kind of credit not to pay off, but to repay a fair price on loans? Indeed, the National Asset Manager has fulfilled its original objective, this legislation does indeed make these proposals by assessing this goal, but I still hope that once the pro-government community, the pro-government majority, see that this institutional system and the problem of foreign exchange lending are not in any way compatible. Although the proposal does indeed have positive elements, I cannot support it myself, precisely because of the shortcomings that I have said in my speech. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-07-01-38	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, an independent Member, within the timeframe available: 35 seconds.
u2020-07-01-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a quick question about the time frame for the government. I would like to see clearly the purpose of the bill, and I would like to ask whether the neglected island of Shipyard and the island of Népsziget are the targeted areas of this bill. I believe that both areas should be touched. In other circumstances, such areas are worth billions in other cities. Since the change of regime, they've both gone down. So I ask the government that they would like to touch it, we can judge the precise purpose of the bill on this basis. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-07-01-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you concerns the regulatory issues under the responsibility of the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing national assets; that is what is the logical framework for salad. It aims to develop a legislative environment in the context of national wealth management and national financial services that responds to regulatory needs in the performance of public tasks and to changes in economic conditions. The rules of the bill on the integration of cooperative credit institutions have been clarified in Parliament's decision-making, by the continued obligation of the members of the integration organisation to hold shares in the integration business management organisation, which has a significant influence on the business operation of its members. The bill has been removed from the design of the built environment... For the sake of Congressman Volner, I repeat: [[János Volner is speaking with Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea.]] : the law has been removed from the bill to amend the law on the formation and protection of the built environment and the legislation on the registration of immovable property. [[12.40]] On this point, this House takes a position in another legislative proposal on measures needed to establish areas of action in the Rusty Zone. In Parliament's decision-making, in addition to the substantive amendments mentioned above, the Commission's amendments made codification and language adequacy clarifications, as well as promoting clarity and compliance with the requirements for drafting legislation. Thank you for the supporting professional work of the committees, which helped to finalise the text of the bill. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the previous debate and what has just been said, I would ask you to support the proposed legislation. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2020-07-01-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the liquidation of undivided common property on land and the submission of land-based property owners' real estate registrations and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/10312. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-01-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10312 on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields and the real estate registration of land owners. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The basic objective of the bill before this House is to eliminate undivided common land ownership and to substantially accelerate liquidation as a result of the land-privatisation procedures following the change of regime. Undivided common land comprises more than one million real estates with a total area of more than 2.4 million hectares and the number of partners involved is around 3.5 million. For them, the bill offers meaningful, quick and equitable solutions to eliminate undivided common land ownership. In all cases, the purpose of the submission is to support the agreement of the parties, to transform the ownership into a maximum number of independent real estates, and to encourage the further acquisition of real land users and to develop property bodies that can be used well in the context of a process which is significantly shorter than the current one. On the basis of the bill submitted, the legal fate of the land affected by undivided joint ownership will be settled in accordance with uniform principles, in the context of procedures much cheaper and faster than the current one, with the minimum involvement of the State, which is in the interest of all the farmers concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to facilitate the liquidation of undivided joint ownership, we ask for the support of the submitted bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, indicated that he wanted to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, who presents the minority opinion of the Committee on Agriculture. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-01-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Not to reiterate the general debate, I would like to briefly summarise the reservations that we shared at the committee meeting with our pro-government colleagues. There has been no discussion between us from the beginning that undivided common land should be abolished. This is the form that has perhaps caused the most competitive disadvantage for the actors in domestic agriculture, and which has placed a continuous unnecessary bureaucratic burden on farmers. We are so in this position that Jobbik has, in effect, since 2010, submitted, in each session, an intention to amend the law that has tried to remedy this situation. Every year we submitted an amendment to the budget, which would have allowed us to provide more resources to measure undivided common land. On the one hand, this would have reduced the burden of the landowners concerned if they had committed themselves to this act and on the other hand would have given the State the opportunity to do so in a much faster form, under an accelerated procedure. So maybe I don't have to further prove that we are very committed to eliminating this form. And this is where we get to the situation, the argument that we are still in favour of abstaining: our biggest problem with the proposal is that it opens up the possibility for us, in a totally unacceptable way and unduly, to push out the 300-hectare property limit, which is otherwise the subject of a public agreement, to eliminate it in this respect. Thus, landowners who comply with the legislation to acquire land in such a way increase its number and proportion, in this special situation, the land maximum of 300 hectares does not apply, i.e. it is not included in this, however much they can increase their own property by eliminating the undivided joint. This is not acceptable to us and we have not been given a very sound argument as to why this is necessary. I understand that liquidation may require a transitional period, i.e., if a specific landowner, for example, temporarily increases his land over 300 hectares due to liquidation, it is acceptable, because there may be a life-like situation where he needs this land for family reasons, for personal attachment, and rightly claims it. But then we say, let's say, let's say, whether it's a business year or a few months, that you have to bring this increased estate size down to or below 300 hectares, i.e. to market the amount of land you choose from your property, which then ensures that it goes back to the size of 300 hectares, which, once again, has been the subject of an absolute public agreement until now, every party of the Parliament has been known to be united in this regard since the regime change, and there has been no more serious criticism in this regard. And you, who, by the way, have been so loudly proclaiming in the opposition that you must take the side of family farms and that you must put them first both in terms of support and property policy, are now breaking up this logic and going against your earlier argument when you relax this restriction. So this was the main motif, the main argument that tells us that the legislation is therefore not entirely honest in terms of setting its goals, and that there is also a kind of land concentration motif in the legislation. With regard to its practical implementation, in order to switch to other criticisms, we also had reservations. Here, however, I can tell you that several substantive amendments have been adopted, which I thank you for, and I hope that this attitude will be exemplary in other laws as well. Some of them went through their own rights, as opposition proposals, some of them considered and chewed over later, they are definitely positive, and I would like to thank them on behalf of Hungarian farmers. But once again, I would like to emphasise that the most important, the most yelling problem has not been solved, so I will propose that the Jobbik faction should abstain from this proposal. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-01-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent representative. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-07-01-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the elimination of the undivided joint ownership of agricultural land has been a necessary procedure for 30 years either in Parliament or among farmers or in public life, and of course this should be welcomed. [[12.50]] We must say, however, that the compensation procedure was not exactly a healthy system, which created this vast, large, 3.5 million people common property in 2.4 million hectares. The legislator or the government say in the proposal that they want to increase competitiveness. I must say, however, that the estates of the largest farmers are usually in the same hands; those who serve and strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture do not typically do so in such undivided common properties. The government believed that in the land and in the owners where they could not be discovered where they were, they existed, who could not be included in the procedure, they had little land belonging to the undivided common ownership, so the ultimate solution is that they would be owned by the state. I can't imagine why, if the government considered the sacrament of property so important, it couldn't have been done that the partners who shared that land and measured their own territory couldn't have been able to obtain these tiny land in proportion. I do not believe that it is possible for the State to be a beneficiary after such a procedure. I think that they could have done so that these fellow owners would deposit the amount that they would receive in the area that they would receive, because these conditions exist, and then we would not have enriched the land ownership of the state again, and the property of the land with which they will really not know what to do. So, once again, you're going to sell it, it's going to create huge costs for the budget again. The government is very widespread in proclaiming its own principles and propaganda. We also know that, although many people are monitoring the fate of this proposal, I still think that the government can really prove that it would want to continue its propaganda activities for the benefit of citizens. With great respect, I would like to ask that as widely as possible, on the larger platforms in the country, citizens should look into the fact that they have inherited, acquired land in some way, and try to participate in the liquidation of undivided common property. If the government really wants to create the unity of property rights and the unity of land and land with this asset system, it should do everything in its power to get the news to all citizens, the supposed 3.5 million persons involved, to participate in it, to be actively involved in it, and to keep as few areas of land as possible that cannot be found by the owner who cannot participate in this procedure. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-07-01-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak under the item on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-07-01-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today, I might say, the final debate also proves that with this law in agriculture, after compensation, the landowners, who, of course, I can say so, had undivided common land ownership, have, at last, the moment when we appear to be creating a law that is not really opposed by the opposition, we have created a significant part of which will solve the fate of this common land ownership. Of course, we know that this will be a very serious task for the landowners, who have a share in organizing themselves once again so to say, and then, on the basis of the distribution programme in the implementing regulation, will be able to permanently distribute, to share this land in order to which you have partially objected, but believe me that this is a correct expression when we say that we should develop a competitive farm size. I do not want to open this debate, and I think we could argue a great deal about this, what is competitiveness, what is the right size. This debate has already been held a number of times here in Parliament between opposition and pro-government representatives. But as time passes, time passes, we see changes in climatic conditions, we see this hectic weather, we see the different economic processes, we see the movement of the various stock exchanges, we see how the agricultural sector, the healthy food production, is appreciated right now during the Crown Virus, how important it is that a country has a safe food background, which is created and created here in Hungary by Hungarian agriculture. That is why I think it is also important that, on this basis, that this farmer now does not want to give a number in the Eks area, and that he may cross 300 hectares in the settlement of undivided land, believe me, as a man who has been farming for 40 years, that these are no longer numbers to be feared. These are, in fact, in today's period, not all areas, all areas, all regions, but believe me, if we look at the fact that if we are talking about competitiveness, rational farming, the use of new technologies, perhaps irrigation development, these cannot be carried out on one or two hectares. Therefore, our aim is that private farmers are also in a significant part, in fact it is specifically about making it easier for private farmers to access the land on which they may still have a lease or even a long-term lease, so that they can become their property, which, of course, can simplify the structure of farming itself, farming itself. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I am therefore very pleased that my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, considered that his amendments adopted in the Committee on Agriculture were exemplary. You can also see from this, honourable Member, that this law is more than just a simple law, it is more than that, not just because 3.5 million people are expected to be affected by this law. This is more than that, and we have gone a lot further than that, if you can put it that way, there has been much more social consultation, and we have thought about the possibilities of this law with a lot more interest. I am particularly pleased that we have finally reached that point after 30 years, so that I can say with a calm conscience that we can end it with comfort. That is why I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this law, which is almost historic, on Friday. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members; I would also like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our Friday meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral T/10744. On the House's IT network, it was available to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr Dávid Héyj. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-01-51	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10744. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to amend a number of laws on judicial matters, taking into account the experience of law enforcement practices, professional feedback and the findings of the Constitutional Court. [[13.00]] The Constitutional Court is a member of the Constitutional Court of 28/2019. In its resolution No.3 concluded that the National Assembly caused a failure to comply with the basic law, by the fact that the Law on notaries was not provided for by the Fundamental Law XXVIII. In accordance with the requirements arising from Article 1 (1) of the Rules on the formation and procedure of notary disciplinary courts, it has regulated the detailed rules relating to the formation and procedure of notary disciplinary courts. The above problem is well resolved by the amendment. The submitted proposal seeks to address further problems based on the practical feedback of the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries. It thus includes a reform of the suffrage of notaries and also clarifies the requirements for document drafting and signature verification. Ladies and gentlemen, The main points of the amendment to the law on judicial enforcement are as follows. The executive service shall be created by the appointment of the Minister of Justice in charge of the Executive. An independent right of suspension shall be granted to the heads of the administrative body of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court of Justice in the event that the criminal offence committed intentionally by the executive is the Btk. According to him, he is punishable by imprisonment of more than five years. In the disciplinary proceedings of the executing officer, a member of the three-member disciplinary board, acting in the first instance, shall be elected as special administrator in addition to a member of the disciplinary board. In order to make the procedures faster, more efficient and cheaper, the rules on the sale of assets seized in execution will be amended and time limits set for executioners to carry out certain specific procedural acts. Dear House, I did not intend to list all the amendments in detail, as we have already heard their exhaustive presentation from the rapporteur during the general debate. Allow me to set just a few more examples for you. The amendment to the Law on Legal Assistance makes it possible to establish a procedural advance for a protective lawyer acting in cross-border maintenance matters. This has never been possible before. The rules governing the procedure for the enforcement of a decision on contacts in the rules applicable in judicial civil non-court proceedings and certain law on non-court proceedings shall be amended in a clarifying manner to facilitate a uniform interpretation of the law, taking into account the indications of the application of the law. The proposal also aims to amend the transitional provisions of the Law on Private International Law with a view to practical experience. Dear House, In my view, the amendments envisaged by the proposal are appropriate to remedy the problems encountered earlier, taking into account the needs and feedback of the enforcement practices and the decision of the Constitutional Court. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-01-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. With respect, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to say anything right now. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. The timeframes may be monitored by all of you on the billboard. I would also like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-01-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal to amend certain laws on the subject of judicial matters would amend eight laws which essentially concern notaries, enforcement, cross-border enforcement and disciplinary proceedings relating to certain judicial staff. As we have seen in the previous period, while the general debate and the Commission's debates took place, neither notaries, the executives nor the judicial staff protested against this amendment. We see that this proposal is appropriate for them, because they would have heard their voices if they thought that some kind of regulation was not in their interests. Therefore, the fundamental task of a Member of Parliament is that, if the profession, which is affected by the proposal, accepts or attacks it, then the Member of Parliament has an obligation to do the same, as we represent them. With regard to notaries, the very detailed new regulation of disciplinary courts is based on the grounds that the National Assembly has committed a default violation according to the findings of the Constitutional Court, and is trying to eliminate this fundamental infringement with this proposal. If I remember correctly, a year ago, the failure to comply with the basic law on the taking of invalid pensions, which was also established by the Constitutional Court, did not see the government trying to remedy this omission and finally solve the lives of those extremely difficult social groups. Indeed, the amendment of the implementing law was an important factor, since we have seen those who have been involved in this type of procedure in everyday practice, that countless executives have been able to work in such a way that there have been serious criminal proceedings, serious criminal prosecutions against them, after the Chamber did not know about it, and that it was not known by the person who could have suspended their activities in their respect. Now, fortunately, a simpler procedure is being introduced, which is very right. I would just like to say one more thing, and I am glad that Mr Secretary of State is here, that we have talked a lot over the last two years about the amendment of the implementing laws, and I would like to say that once such a proposal comes in, which is relevant to this law, they are already trying to solve it, and in the last few days when the Minister was heard, I have raised a question of this kind, that the executives, when a sum comes in, even if not the whole one, are not obliged to account for it under the law. They are not obliged to account for it, although this is very important because there are enforcement cases where they are deducted from wages, deducted from monthly allowances, these amounts are deducted for 8-10-15 years, and the executor is not forced to make a nice partial settlement of how much of it he has, how much of it he has, how much of it he has, where we are; and the poor debtor never knows how much more. We were in a situation where I went to the bailiff myself to ask him to let us know where we are, and he always said that he was not bound by law. It would be important, Mr State Secretary, if the amendment of the implementing law is always in order to put at least one element of security into this, so that it is not a lifelong robbing process, but the debtor really knows where he is. Of course, I will support this proposal, because it is important that everything, everything, is as clear as possible in the area of justice, because where is not, if not, in the area of justice? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independent benches.]]
u2020-07-01-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyure. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There's a salad law ahead of us, which we've already given our opinion on. In general, the salad law is assessed negatively by the opposition, because there is very often no correlation between the laws that are changing, and there are more than once nuclear bombs hidden on which the opposition, if not paying attention, can get involved; so not only because of this, but also because we believe that the salad law is not practical. This is a little different, because there is some connection, and it is not 90-100 amendments to the law, it is only 8 amendments to the law. In particular, I would like to highlight two: notary law and enforcement legislation. And it is true that the speakers before me also mentioned that the profession was heard when this amendment was drawn up. Indeed, indeed, there are some parts of this amendment that the profession has previously had expectations of legislation and wanted to carry it through. For example, in the case of executives, the removal of the continuing uncertainty that led them to never receive an indefinite extension of their legal status, but only for a limited period of time, could the Minister of Justice extend their mandate for seven years. So obviously, the profession also had an old need to be changed to indefinite in the event that, if there is no disciplinary penalty, there is no case that would make it doubtful that the executioner is doing his job well, then it can be changed indefinitely. [[13.10]] However, either during the disciplinary proceedings or during the notary disciplinary proceedings, elements that are positive in this respect have indeed been included. My colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, spoke in the previous speech about the right to listen to the profession, and it is also the duty of a Member to vote in favour if the position of the profession is included. I'd like to argue with him a little bit about that. I really think it's good that the position of the profession is heard, and the legislators take into account what the professional needs are, what the professional experience is, and what the legislation is based on, but I would like to look at it a little bit and turn it around, and I would also look at the citizen's case from his point of view. For example, what is very significant in implementation: we have heard an incredibly great deal about the irregular procedures performed by executives in many cases, and how, where appropriate, debtors are turned out of their assets. I think that we have an increased responsibility here, and not only must we take account of the position of the profession, but we also have to take very strong consideration of the aspects of the citizen, and we have to make our opinion on the basis of which a law will be passed. Here, in many cases, there may be serious contradictions and differences of interest between the expectations of the profession and the expectations of those to whom the law applies, who will encounter this legislation in a secondary manner in the implementation process. On the part of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we cannot support this legislation, and we will abstain from voting, because we also take into account that there are positive moves that meet the expectations of the profession, but there are also negative things in this legislation. For example, I would like to mention that the auctioning of movable property at 1 per cent is in our view not in the interest of the debtor or the applicant for enforcement, since the applicant for enforcement will not obtain his money in any form, because let us admit that 1 per cent is nothing. So your satisfaction will not be obtained from the amount of money, and the debtor whose assets will be sold at 1 percent will have a large loss of assets, if any. The incomprehensible thing about this is that it is not in the interest of the applicant for implementation or the debtor, but this 1% sales will be introduced. Of course, it can be explained, and there are reasons for this, which may be understandable, but I believe that it is in the interests of the enforcement seeker and the debtor, and in this case it is not in the service of any of them. I mentioned earlier in my speech that there have been numerous problems with the work of executives, how it is legal, how it is law-abiding. There have been problems here, which have been more than once in the national media, and have even caused a great deal of dust. It is therefore possible to agree in any way with the amendment that disciplinary penalties are getting worse. Obviously, a serious disciplinary penalty can be the amount increased from HUF 5 million to HUF 20 million, and it can be a sufficient deterrent to the prospect of such a large amount of punishment. In this case, this profession may become white. Like I said, that's why we say there are positive signs that are forward-looking. That's about all I wanted to say about that. Well, there's one more thing. By speeding up the procedure, we usually agree with each other; except for there is only one case that I can bring up, and it is included in this law. Here, with the change in the rules of implementation, there is a change that accelerates the enforcement procedure, which is often good, but in the case of foreign exchange credentials and the eviction of foreign exchange credentials, we cannot agree to an accelerated procedure for these people, who are often in a situation where they are not able to pay their debts for reasons other than their own fault. These are the points that make us decide to abstain. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-01-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP, applied for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I only asked for the floor because I heard the comments before me. I appreciate both of my fellow Members very much. In the general debate, they also gave their views in very detailed terms, and I would like to reflect only on this. At the same time, I will say on every occasion that, together with the fact that we disagree with the salad law as a procedure in itself, the Ministry of Justice does very often commit that it does not comply with the prior publication and conciliation procedures laid down in the law. I think that this is a very bad practice, and it should be faced by the Ministry of Justice, and at least the legal conditions that you have set out should be met in the context of the preliminary negotiations. Indeed, it is very rewarding, as has been said here, that the profession has been negotiated. However, I would rather agree with Congressman Csaba Gyure here. On this issue, it is important that the opinion of the profession is present and represented, but I believe that here, as a parliamentary representative, the interests of those involved in proceedings, Hungarian citizens, must be fully represented. We also acknowledge that it is essentially amendments in the right direction, but there are also technical objections to the sale and auction of movable property, on which we also believe that this is a specific sanction. For this reason, because of such a professional objection, the LMP faction will have a stronger position than Jobbik, so we will vote against it, while recognising that in the vast majority of the salad law itself there are positive changes. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Your time frame is 15 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to exhaust the 15 minutes, but some points have been raised that I would like to respond to. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned the issue of disability pensions, which is not relevant here. There, the Constitutional Court's decision was raised in connection with an international legislative obligation and not the unconstitutional nature of internal legislation. As regards the statements as to where the amounts currently received in implementation are, there is an executive administration system in relation to it, so that information can be requested at any stage of the procedure and it can be provided by the system. My colleague Csaba Gyüre talked about the 1%. We know that after delivery to 35 percent, it can be established that you can go down at this minimum price. Instead of the previous 1 HUF rule, 1 percent came in, which is higher than what was in the previous period than a property or movable property of greater value. I can also note that if it is in the interest of the debtor, then the debtor may have an acquaintance or a circle of any kind who, in this bidding phase, can enter in the same way and do not wait for that unfairly low amount, but can even bring potential buyers by means of an advertisement. Thus, this type of sales takes place under market conditions. Obviously, what is sold at 1 percent probably did not require any commercial traffic. As compared to the previous regulation, progress has been made, but it cannot remain that real estate and movable property cannot be sold for years because we are setting an unrealistic amount because we do not know the exact state of the property. I'd like to respond to one more suggestion. The necessary consultations were, of course, carried out before the legislation was tabled, so there was no action contrary to any legislation. Indeed, it is important to take account of the opinions of professional organisations, but to make implementing rules, let us just think of the fact that, from a moratorium on implementation to an estimate of 100%, a number of measures have been taken that have taken into account the needs of the debtors in particular, i.e. the wider public. The Ministry must always find a balance between debtors, creditors and professional organisations, and this is how legislation should be prepared. Thank you for your attention and for the support of the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. The Commission's reports on an accelerated trial for the reimbursement of damages and damages caused by the crime and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. [[13.20]] The government referral is T/10860. It was available to all of us on the House's IT network. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10860 on the accelerated trial for compensation for damages and damages caused by the crime. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It accepted 32 yeses, 1 no against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us seeks to provide a significant procedural facilitation for victims in whose criminal proceedings are already finalised and their claim for compensation for harm or harm caused by a criminal offence has not been enforced either in criminal proceedings or in civil proceedings, provided, of course, that their claim has not yet lapsed. I think it should be stressed that, according to the proposal, negotiations should, as a general rule, be carried out using electronic means. This provision must be underlined, since in this way the plaintiff does not need to meet the defendant physically. This is a very important and forward-looking regulation, as this will avoid, or at least greatly reduce, the victim's secondary victimisation. The decision on accelerated litigation is referred to the jurisdiction of the court by the bill and it establishes an exclusive competence in respect of the determining court. Dear House, Please allow me, by way of example, to list a number of provisions aimed at facilitating enforcement and closing the procedure as soon as possible. On the one hand, the draft grants the parties the right to record costs. On the other hand, the proposal provides for an extraordinary procedure and sets a number of time limits which are different from those laid down in the Civil Code. There is no room for intervention, a counterclaim, a set-off, and no other lawsuit can be linked. There is a strong role to be played in the written preparation and the trial itself is not separated into a trial and substantive negotiation phase. Ladies and gentlemen, During the years behind us, a number of court judgments have been issued that have thoroughly disturbed society's general sense of justice. The majority of Hungarians expressed their dissatisfaction because of their serious crime, inmates who completed their final prison sentences received millions of indemnifications. The government, hearing the voice of the people, has committed itself to action, and the objective to be achieved remains to restore the natural balance between the compensation systems for prisoners and victims. In the spirit of victim-centred policy, the proposal states that a victim who has not been able to enforce his civil rights claim in the prison congestion compensation procedure for any reason, but who has suffered damage or harm resulting from the crime, may enforce his claim by means of an accelerated trial, the possibility of which he must be informed by the prison judge. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft is a summa summarum that, bearing in mind the criteria for better lawmaking, it also envisages facilitating the consideration of legal proceedings within a reasonable time-limit, which is perhaps one of the most important demands of citizens. It is also to be welcomed that the ideas that greatly support the enforcement of the victims of crime should be included in the norm. In view of what has been said, we ask for support from the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-07-01-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner indicates no.]] He doesn't want me now. He will then say in the closing words all that he considers important in relation to the debate. [[Zoltán Balczó: If you want.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor first to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-01-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am pleased with the proposal, because it has indeed become a system of institutions creating such a harsh social inequality, the mass of compensations for prison congestion that the government has in some way had to deal with and, in some way, put victims first. But, as my fellow Members have said many times before, the situation, whether you like it or not, was created by the government in 2016, even if we know that it was the Strasbourg court on the international European scene that set up procedures and standards for the benefit of prisoners in the prisons, which then created this huge business that this meant. So the government is forced to correct itself, and unfortunately it did not hear the words that my fellow Members said at the time. I also welcome the fact that such an accelerated trial will take place if the victims have not been compensated before. But, as I said in the general debate, knowing very well the practice of criminal law, I am concerned that the judges will be comfortable, because if the legislator has created the possibility of such a relatively accelerated trial, then as much as there is available in criminal proceedings all the data, expert opinions, documentary evidence that would give the criminal judge the opportunity to establish civil rights claims against the defendants for the benefit of the victims, so in recent decades there have been very few criminal lawsuits, I think, and I fear that my concern will work, I think it will converge to zero. We consider that, once the legislation provides that the end of criminal proceedings, the end of appeals, has to wait for these accelerated lawsuits to start, I would also like to draw attention to the possibility of insurance measures in criminal proceedings, there is also the possibility of declaring certain decisions enforceable in advance. If criminal judges are to be made more comfortable by this legislation, the length of compensation for a number of victims may be even more detrimental than the noble aim that this legislative proposal otherwise contains. Of course, I will vote for it, because it is simply not a question that any proposal for victims will come in that can improve their situation, and we must support it. But from here, I would like to send a message to the criminal judges that I very much expect that, if it is a simple compensation, and if all the documents are available in the criminal case to establish this civil law claim, it should not be that it is convenient to direct such claims into another way of the law, but that it should judge them, and that this accelerated trial really only applies to cases where compensation was not possible in criminal proceedings. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyure. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are very pleased that the government is also dealing with victim protection, victims' claims for compensation or compensation for victims, and we are very pleased that this legislation is finally here. It would have been possible to bring in legislation with this content much earlier. We have been discussing a lot recently the bill on prison congestion, and we have already said in that debate four and a half years, five years ago, that the government should not be dealing with the compensation or compensation of the perpetrators, but rather with the compensation and compensation of the victims of the crime. When the ominous debate took place at the time when the prison business came into force, based on which the prison business was established from 2016 in Hungary, we already said that the bill does not take into account the protection of the victims, does not take into account the claims for compensation for the victims, or the state may not pay attention to the relief of the damage. We also said that there would be a business out of this, an industry that would settle for prison congestion compensation. At that time, in his speech as the lead speaker, my fellow Member Gábor Staudt told me, and how it was possible to see how the bill that was born at that time has hurt the citizens' sense of justice over the past four or five years, how right the Jobbik fraction was to have an industry on the ground that certain people would benefit from it. [[13.30]] We now know very well that this was a HUF 9 billion industry, and indeed the government would have been able to eliminate it with a simple measure if it had not been for the inmates to spend the 9 billion as compensation or compensation, but instead spent this money on building the prisons, eliminating the crowding of prisons, and in parallel with the protection of victims, the compensation of the victims and the compensation of the victims. We were very sorry that the government was more concerned with the prisoners, so we could not support this in any way, and that is why we did not vote for the bill on which the prison business was built at the time. However, it should be mentioned as a fact that this legislation itself is moving forward, and finally the government is moving in a direction with which we can agree in terms of victim protection, support for victims, so there are all kinds of forward-looking signs. However, this will not solve the problem either, because we are actually talking about an accelerated procedure, and it does take it out of the rules of general civil procedure, to which I would say that this may be a bit contradictory, but the fundamental problem here is that we are speeding up this procedure in vain, if there is a main proceedings alone, on which this accelerated procedure is based, and the main proceedings in which a person's criminal liability is established, that there is, or is not, a person's, criminal liability, must be definitively established. In the meantime, it may be a year, two years, three years, five years, any time, and until then, the person who has been the victim of the crime will obviously not be able to enforce that right. And the fact that you'll be able to get it in a fast-track procedure after an equestrian year, and it won't be seven years, it'll be six years, and I think it's not a very big thing in itself, but it's certainly forward-looking. I also mentioned that, in relation to Pp, it is also necessary to deal with the fact that the rule on this matter is removed from the civil order. I find this a little controversial, because if the government liked civil order so much at the time and had to make a whole new civil order, and it had to be carried through in a moment before this House, and it had to be accepted, then will the government now admit that it is Pp. yet it was a little premature and a little rough, and its rules are not too good, perhaps the new civil order is not accelerated by changing the old rules, and perhaps even more difficult and slower, that the rules of civil order can no longer be applied to an accelerated procedure? So I see some contradictions in this, which just shows me that there are problems with Pp., and the profession has already indicated this at many levels, either on the part of the courts or by the Bar Association or by the National Bar Association, and indeed we have already dealt with the problem of civil procedure at a judicial committee meeting. We are very pleased that the Minister for Justice said at this week's Commission hearing that I would like to change the civil order during the 2020 legislative term, and that we will deal with the amendment of civil procedure in a greater extent at the autumn session. But it's also the law and the fact that Pp is out. It shows that there are indeed problems with the current civil procedure. I would like to draw the government's attention to one thing: this is the 2005 CXXXV. law, the law on State compensation, on which I cannot stress in my speeches that the circle that this concerns is very narrow or very small, especially since we are talking about the 2005 legislation, and at the same time the possibility with which the compensation of victims could be resolved was limited. It would also be good to change this, and when we talk about victim protection, the government should deal with this in a complex way, not only by accelerating the procedure, but also by providing certain larger amounts and frameworks. And especially if we consider that the government, the Hungarian state, has already paid 9 billion forints of taxpayers' money because of prison congestion compensation, we can see that this amount is not in balance with the compensation money paid to the victims. I am still saying, therefore, that the state has been much more concerned with the compensation of the prisoners than with the compensation of the victims, and I think that this is very controversial, so it is absolutely necessary to change that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-07-01-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. State Secretary Pál Völner indicated that he wanted to take advantage of the opportunity and to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State. I'd like to inform you that your time frame is 15 minutes.
u2020-07-01-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just so that there are no inaccuracies in the minutes, even if they were from other speakers, I asked for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about prison business, there was no prison business before 2010, and then there were certain NGOs and other legal protection organisations in Strasbourg that had already existed before the entry into force of the 17th law, which referred to prison congestion. Prior to 2010, prison congestion was higher in Hungary than in today's day, the last data I saw was 113-114 percent, and we know that with the deadline of September, the government intends to eliminate this. The other part is that, as my fellow Members have listened to in that debate, the Hungarian budget was practically much less burdened, which was to be paid in this respect by about a third of what can now be established on a normative basis, and we have already included in the rule at the time that it is primarily for victims to satisfy this amount; the Ministry of Justice has paid it directly to the victims and victims whenever it was aware of this. We regret that this has only gone up to 13 percent, which is why we have this legislation before this House, which is also an opportunity for those who have not submitted it before, or who have been ordered to take another judicial route, which is why we have this legislation before us. In fact, the practice has led to the fact that these needs have not been met to a higher degree, and that is exactly what we want to channel in. My fellow Member, Mr Gyure, mentioned the delay in the procedures. We all know that the new law on criminal proceedings is the length of criminal proceedings, so to speak, almost completely eliminated, so we do not have to carry these fears with us any longer. As far as the issues relating to Pp are concerned, the last time we sat at the Justice Committee meeting, where the Minister said that a revision of the Pp. based on practical experience will begin in the autumn, which, if there were anomalies, will help to eliminate them. Overall, I would also like to thank you for the statements of support that have been made and to ask you to support the proposal in the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. It is now up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10990. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 25 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the annual XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. T/10990. Bill No. 1. [[13.40]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 10 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains amendments to the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. The aim of the draft law is to modernise the procedural rules of insolvency law and to facilitate the settlement of disputes between debtors and creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, to facilitate the retention of jobs in bankruptcy and to introduce legal solutions that promote the reorganisation of businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to speed up the procedure, simplify the procedure and reduce the administrative burden on the parties, Cstv. the rules on electronic correspondence between creditors, on the one hand, and between the parties to the proceedings, and between the administrator and the winding-up commissioner, on the other hand, are added. The proposal also specifies that the legal declaration, document and information documents sent to the e-mail address must comply with the formalities provided for by the Civil Procedure and the Law on Lawyer Activities. The reason for the clarification concerning the arrangements for negotiating the terms and conditions of the arrangement is that the debtor is not interested in the length of the arrangement negotiations and that it is necessary to ensure that the settlement proposal is recast according to the creditors' expectations. Under the proposed amendment, the debtor may revise the settlement proposal even if the creditors do not support it to the extent necessary. With a view to modernising and simplifying winding-up proceedings, it should be pointed out that the liquidator conducts creditors' meetings either without a personal presence, after the participants have been identified, with technical solutions enabling image and voice transmission. A forward-looking vision is provided by the Cstv. 40. The amendment of §2 of the Act thus allows the former debtor's managers to challenge more effectively in court legal proceedings which harm the interests of creditors and which unlawfully reduce the assets of bankruptcy. In particular, taking into account the situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, there were also objective obstacles to the collection of documents and evidence that could be obtained only over a longer period of time to effectively challenge those legal transactions. The proposal submitted therefore only provides for an objective limitation period for bringing an action and the subjective time limit is terminated. Dear House, For entities of strategic importance, the proposal seeks to grant the State the right of pre-emption when selling the debtor's assets. I would like to stress that the Government, on the basis of the mandate given by this Act, can also lay down in a regulation the specific rules governing the reorganisation, maintenance and recovery of business organisations and the settlement of their debts. In view of what has been said, we respectfully ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-01-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, that he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Not now, and you will only respond to what has been said in the closing of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which can be followed continuously by the billboard for all of them. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I am now asking my fellow Members who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor first to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-01-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk about what's not in this bill right now. For many times in the last two years, the various amendments to the bankruptcy law have been brought before the House, and I have told the representatives of the Ministry of Justice that there is an extremely important element in the legislative parts on liquidations, and this is the case in which the courts are obliged to order liquidation. I'm sure you all know that all you need to do is call on the other party to perform something that is a kind of financial consideration or even a commodity issue that you didn't perform, and in the event that you miss a certain twenty days of the so-called debtor, the court will have to order the winding-up procedure without consideration. The reason I dare to tell you is that, during the last period of my legal activity, I have not met a similar case, when the court orders liquidation, and then the proceedings begin, the appropriate deadline is open to the parties or stakeholders to notify their claims for creditors, and this period will pass without even announcing the claim of the creditor who requested the liquidation. How could that happen? This can be done because the claim was not justified and, since there is no evidence in the winding-up proceedings, it is indeed possible to destroy a company by filing a winding-up claim that an administrative error has occurred, but in fact, the person who requested the liquidation has no legal basis for submitting a claim. And after the liquidation commissioner is obliged to examine the merits of the notified claim, they do not dare to do so, because they know precisely that it will be rejected. And then there's a one-year-long torture waiting for the company, and the court keeps it up, because what can the insolvency commissioner do... If there is no claim for creditors declared in liquidation, there is nothing to talk about. With great respect, I have expected in recent years, if, for example, in this new proposal, such relatively modern amendments are proposed by the government and try to make winding-up procedures more smooth and, in particular, to try to achieve that liquidation does not mean the primary objective of liquidation, but can even be reorganised by the company in liquidation, where there are creditors, this is very welcome, but the zero point itself, which can lead to the liquidation of a company, there is too much room for anyone who wants this institution almost out of revenge because its claim is not justified, it can still do so without limit. I am asking the judicial government to ask the courts for the data, whether there were cases where it was either unfounded or not at all, and to place a firm with a serious economic result under such an extremely adverse torture in economic life, because someone simply could not agree on something that someone in economic life wanted revenge. So I would suggest that a liquidation claim can be submitted if, at the same time, he enforces his claim through a payment order or a lawsuit, i.e. seriously expressing that his claim is real. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-01-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Nyitrai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-73	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. I will comment very briefly on the proposal, which will bring about an amendment to the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, and this amendment has actually been justified by life and practical procedural experience so far. In any case, I think that the proposal, some kind of spirit of the amendment to the bill, which aims to give dialogue a better chance, give compromises a better chance, make it possible to simplify contacts in both bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, and obviously the aim here is to increase the number of different settlements in practice and everyday life. Therefore, this proposal creates the opportunity, gives time to draw up a proposal for a settlement every day, prolongs the deadline for holding the first settlement hearing, and also allows the debtor to revise his proposal for a settlement several times. There is also an important economic policy objective to ensure that the government, the executive power, has more flexible opportunities and a procedural framework when it needs to coordinate government measures in order to develop different solutions to save companies. [[13.50]] I consider all of these to be experiences with regard to the procedure which justify this type of amendment, so that these things can move forward more smoothly in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall the debate, where the Secretary of State, who was replacing the Secretary of State at the time, read his reply spontaneously, did he not, from a written text, so clearly we could see what we were going to point out in connection with this law. Let's start from the beginning: in liquidation proceedings, in bankruptcy, it is obviously not about speed and simplicity, and what you might see as facilitating the procedure, there is another side where we say that it is much easier to bring together a blocking minority in a creditor selection. This will be a danger to this bill, between us: I wish that was the greatest danger to this bill. But we can see that you have messed this up, strategically important, obviously providing public services and community services, which will probably be the companies, companies, which will have special rules for bankruptcy. I have also said in the debate, and I have held this since that not necessarily bankruptcy proceedings, but the reasons which led to it should be removed by the government, would be much easier. Why can these strategically important companies, public services and community services, mostly municipal-owned companies, get in trouble? The first problem is that you have looked at them, so obviously I would like to put the results of last year's municipal elections in parentheses somewhere, and I would like to control the municipal companies. On the other hand, we've seen how these companies go when you're centralized. This is one of the reasons, for example, for the majority of waste management companies that have reached the limit of their solvency, and you have always given only so much to the established company, which is known in the common language as kukaholding, that they have always only given to these companies, who have done the service they were entrusted with before, to the city companies just enough to make them survive. So, to make it clear to everyone: the municipal company, such as waste management, had to do the task of taking away, of course, and handling municipal waste, and then the Hungarian state did not pay them through the trash-hadding, because in this company it took you a year and a half to go through a public procurement procedure to print the check. Think back. This is the lesson of this law: it is easy for you to make a company insolvent. We see that the BKK does not operate without State aid. It never worked. Public transport did not operate without State aid in any major city. In the event that you touch this, BKK, public transport in Budapest could easily be in such a situation, but any public transport company in Budapest could be in such a situation, since you can withdraw this support and delay this assessment. As you did last time during the coronal virus epidemic, when you were constantly receiving warnings, warnings, requests that the BKK would lose a billion dollars a day, the government would not do anything, but it could also be said about other city companies. So, unfortunately, you can create this situation. And the third danger, especially for utility companies, is that you just imposed a utility tax. You obviously know as well as I do that utility companies, also mostly municipal-owned companies, can pay for this on credit. After drinking water and sewerage, after district heat, these companies can usually only pay for it on credit, a hundred billion-dollar loan to these companies, which you will be paid into the state register. This will also enable a company to go into insolvency, perhaps even to collect its debts as a tax, but you will go further than that. In these strategically important companies, how they touch it, how they get it, how it is managed, and how long this condition, which you call a moratorium, will take place during which the company's restructuring will take place, and a decree will be made on this. They're gonna want to influence those companies at government level, the operations of the companies they want to put their hands on. That's what you told me, didn't you, by spontaneous reading your answer to me, your pre-written reply was spontaneously read to me by the Deputy Secretary of State, because we don't trust you. [[Dr. Pál Völner's intervention:]] Not you, because we don't trust newly elected city councils. Yes, you can. You were replaced because you were no longer trusted by the electorate. Of course we trust them, but there are these three things that you can really influence how these companies work. They're raising taxes, they're delaying the provision of certain subsidies, they're simply saying that we should just wait a little longer, or it's not the right time, right? That's usually your answer, isn't it? But in those companies, people who work there have to pay wages every month. The service must be provided, drinking water from the tap must flow, the bus must go, and the heating plant must, of course, also work. If you want to put your hands on this, you will certainly be able to create a situation where you will make a decree on how to transform municipal companies. It's not because we don't trust the newly elected city council. In fact, we have worked very hard to have newly elected city councils in many places in Hungary because we thought that you did this wrong. In fact, so did the voters in many places. In fact, in such laws, we do not trust the city, we do not trust the city. We don't trust you, because we have more experience with you than we have any illusions left. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-01-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-77	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, if you are in the room and you are an opposition representative, you are trying to look at such a proposal in good faith. I am always looking for points in which we can agree, otherwise we find one or two of these in it, but somehow we always find nuclear bombs not only during reading, but the general debate has confirmed us that in a fair market economy environment, this proposal could indeed have a professional debate before Parliament, and we could talk about who deserves to operate companies providing various public services, who can operate them most effectively, who should be able to shape regulations, change in order to achieve efficiency gains in the system, but from the package before us, what is the government's intention behind it. If the question is that I support an increase in the number of settlements in the case of companies in difficulty instead of closing the bankruptcy procedure, my answer is clearly yes: I clearly support the Hungarian companies and companies who can somehow, but still, prevail in this market. So, if this were the sincere intention behind the proposal, for the sake of the minutes, let us say that I am in favour of this objective. I don't have any problem with that in the world. I can also see that we have come across a very insufferable, well-made proposal, with which they were in a hurry for some reason, because even the spelling of the Hungarian state as an expression could not be achieved in it, and it also had to be modified. We also see that we can find the same shortcomings if we want to put together, characterize, and figure out who the government was thinking about. [[14.00]] Obviously, from market movements, intentions, and circumstances, companies and companies providing public services are actually coming in, companies that are typically owned by a local government right now, and need to provide their funding through a system that is continuously bled out. This system has been bled out by the fact that, in this way, the fund for epidemiological control and its revenue, which, according to the Fidesz rhetoric and the published panels, affects only one micron of the local government's revenue, the reality is that if we look at freely negotiable revenues, so that those which are mandatory or not required for purposes, can be distributed relatively freely at present, under the present circumstances, before the world of special economic zones, we can see that the government will take a much larger cut out of the municipal register than any of them would think on the basis of any statistics. And these are the municipalities that are involved in the cash register of disease control, much more than the multi-enterprises or banks. The Government of Hungary avoids this special tax for multi-company companies and zeros and even supports them in the case of banks. So the banking government issued the certificate of itself again: it fell on its knees, descended before the financial system, with which it made a deal in February 2015 with regard to the EBRD pact. But the municipalities are being sabotaged. And yes, my fellow Members, the link between the dissipation of the municipalities and the proposal is that the companies you are preparing for a mass bankruptcy are typically municipal owned, and if we think about your strategy further, so if the municipal segment is bled out, from there the resources will be allocated or canalised elsewhere, then it can be said that there is a greater chance that those municipal-owned companies that provide public services will now go bankrupt, or that other roads will be forced to look for, that the whole thing has simply been unmodelled in the past. We can also see that, yes, this government is able to create artificial bankruptcies in many ways for these market participants. There was a time when I did a study, it was called Wars for Water, and it was a great cry against multi-enterprises, multi-semmens, buying up many strategic companies, companies and service providers, from fresh water sources through the water utility service, which I believe should remain in national hands at all costs. And to this day, of course, I confess. If you are so in adolescence or at the end of a line and I have voted in favour of a patriot economic policy, conservatism and the economic philosophy of the right-wing national defender, obviously it will remain that way with me, I am very sorry that the government does not, then this situation will not change in the coming years. I am saying now that similar priority strategic utility companies have a place in national ownership. But that's why it's possible to find such a category within national property. It may be a centralised state property, it may also be the property of the municipalities. And here is another philosophical break, where everyone has to say that, where appropriate, strategically important companies should be considered more effective, better, in the collective hands of the state, or that local authorities can articulate and formulate the achievements of subsidiarity that the best way for a local community is for the local, say, water supplier to be under his control. At this historic moment, I tend to think that there is a better place for these companies and utility providers than the municipalities; not all aspects, not all sectors. Obviously, we will find one, and the subject of legitimate professional debate is that certain services can be more effective, if appropriate centralised, and also within a nation state as large as the current Hungary. But this debate has not been held here by the House, and I have not heard from the mouth of my fellow members of the Government that the target here is the iks or the ipsilon sector. What I'm saying is that the local service provider is in a much safer position if it is under the control of the local government. Obviously, this sentence is true if the funding of the municipality allows everything to be managed and managed, and the Government of Hungary works very hard to ensure that this is not possible in a sustainable way. But that doesn't make the sentence wrong, and it's not the direction of the approach that's going to be wrong, it's the circumstances that have been forced into an inefficient situation in recent years. We also see that if these artificial bankruptcies happen, let's say, in the case of utility companies, this government is vindictive. I say this not out of emotional anger, but because I see maladministration in relation to Budapest, as a capital resident, when the government no longer takes into account, let's say, the Fidesz voters in the capital, and doesn't even take into account that he has believers and taxpayers here in this capital city, and the fact that the government has let the capital go in political decisions. The Prime Minister also had ideas from which this can be read, but I believe that in Hungary all taxpayers, all voters should be equal, and should not appear in political decision making to make a similar distinction. If what continues now is the kindergarten-grade rope pulling between the government and Budapest, where, by the way, people listening to the first lectures of economics, let's say, the first semester of his first year, see that the government is lying because he claims that there is a billion dollars committed to sovereign debt, of course, why doesn't the government renew Lanchid from it. [[Dr. Völner to Paul:]] But, Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to nod even when you examine the size of the liabilities and the amount of bills to be paid left behind by the previous metropolitan city administration. It won't be 180 at the end, it'll be over 300, Mr. Secretary of State. So you can see that people with economic basic knowledge realize that this number war and this rope pull are not professional, it's not about the profession, it's about the development of cities, it's about a cheap political club in this case, and it's about you proving with the current metropolitan leadership that I'm not a member of, who's got a bigger shovel or who's stronger politically. The fact is that this is not in the interests of voters, not of taxpayers. Therefore, if this proposal is aimed at bankrupting strategically high-priority utility companies even indirectly, then collecting them is practically supported by a new state-based, fidesz-based oligarch group or the current state itself, I would say that a fair opposition representative cannot support this in such a way. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-01-78	The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I am trying to ask you a question, and I acknowledge that the Secretary of State is not the most competent on this subject, but I was very pleased to hear from my fellow Members. I myself believe that it is in the fundamental national interest to keep the most important public services in public or municipal reserve, and, moreover, at the next item on the agenda with the Secretary of State responsible for transport policy, I think we will have a little debate on this, that, unfortunately, due to an EU commitment, the market for inter-local public transport should be opened next year. I think it's a very bad direction, but that was just a parentheses note. However, we have been talking about the crisis in the water utility sector for a very long time, to say the least. I suppose that everyone can feel and see that this is not the intrusion of opposition representatives, this is a sign of the profession. If we look at next year's budget figures, we can see that the government does not want to face this problem. So we see this kind of minimum lifeline for large regional utility companies, but again, municipal-owned companies operating in the vast majority do not receive a lifeline. We can see that about 200 billion are missing per year in the water utility sector alone, which is needed to maintain the most important public service in the longer term or even in the medium term. Here and there, at committee meetings, at the last meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, we were able to hear representatives of the government, who were drawn to statements of such a kind as to acknowledge the huge system problems. At the same time, we can't get them to the National Assembly. So with such bypassing operations, you have some idea of how the government is, but we can't see how this is trying to remedy the situation. In fact, my question concerns myself now, I do not know, on what occasion, my proposal for a resolution on the rescue of the water utility sector, that there is any intention on the part of the government that it could be brought before the Parliament, and at least we could have a debate about it, where appropriate, not a political one, but a political debate, obviously in the next period, there is any hope for that. By the way, I will also ask Mr Kósa today about his bill concerning the water utility sector in such a tiny way, but it would be very important to see that the government even senses a huge set of problems, which, if an example is mentioned in the water utility sector, will appear there. [[14.10]] We know that the profession puts the missing amount between HUF 1500 and HUF 3000 billion, which is, in particular, the missing amount in addition to the existing, planned resources, so that adequate maintenance and replacement work can be carried out in order to ensure that the most important public service, healthy drinking water supply, can be achieved. So I really, really hope that we can get some kind of indicative response from the Secretary of State, even if it is absolutely not his area of expertise. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who will answer questions and comments in the debate. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Andrea Varga-Damm for talking about the bill and for not making any detour that would lead us to the field of political storms. Overall, what we have before us is basically about the reorganization of companies, so let's not go to a liquidation. How liquidation starts and does not happen is a separate story, obviously these issues can be translated in a full revision of the law, but at the same time we can remember the circumstances of the 1990s, when it was not possible to catch up with companies, it was a process of debt, for years the lawsuits were drawn, virtually could not create clean legal relations, and they could practically continue this kind of activity. Obviously, that's why this kind of regulation came into being. By the way, it is true that a serious company, if it comes from a court with an acknowledgement of receipt, should be excluded from the administrative error, although I have seen it; I am sorry for the detour. The other part is that we have discussed it with Mr Cook, unfortunately he had to leave, but the suggestion that these would be specifically devoted to a sector, utility services, is a strong comment. Secondly, it was also apparent in the debate that there was a strong fault line, although electoral coalitions were formed, that public services had to be public property, water resources had to be national ownership, or pre-2010 practice, when they wanted to sell them, and the Balliberal parties were vivid advocates of this. At the same time, we also see that this situation is recognised as being brought back to what they suggest in connection with utility services, that we are going through a certain wave of reductions, so that the forprofit companies have become non-profit companies, so we have effectively managed to involve these gas, electricity, waste and water service providers under national control, so that we have managed to maintain this kind of practice that we have managed to start before 14:00. This is a result that must not be abandoned. The gaps in investment and maintenance in the various sectors, if we ask the railway sector, transport or any of them, are virtually a system-change legacy, because we have not managed to overcome the disadvantage that, say, Western Europe holds. Obviously, this year there is a serious task, and the government is obviously doing everything within the budget figures, of course not indebted to the country to reduce this disadvantage year after year. Overall, I say it would be a good thing if this House could focus on the fact that there really was a crisis, that companies could really be in a difficult situation, because we know that there is a credit moratorium by the end of the year, so that the problems may not be immediately revealed, or if a situation where companies that are otherwise operational need temporary reorganisation, then it can be done as easily and as quickly as possible, so that neither the interests of the debtor nor the creditors are harmed to the extent necessary. So I call on this House to support this proposal. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport laws and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/10523. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10523 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to introduce the necessary legislative changes to the existing legislation in the field of rail, shipping, road and air transport. With regard to road transport, the proposal on the House's table will help to ensure that roads and their assets are managed and owned by those who are justified by the public task laid down by law, creating a clear and clear ownership situation in the context of a fast and efficient procedure. It is also an important amendment that NÚSZ Zrt. is expected to deliver services available online to citizens and businesses. be authorised to access vehicle registration data. It should be noted that for control purposes this access has been available for years. However, it can provide more services easily, efficiently and quickly through the customizable administration interface, the SZÜF, as, for example, they can make sure that the right category of the right vehicle is sold. In the future, this will allow us to exclude the rules on surcharges due to category mismatches, as well as, for example, license plate breakdowns. The service will continue to be built in the future. LXVII of 2013 on the fee to be paid for the use of motorways, motorways and main roads in proportion to the journey taken. The amendment of the Act introduces an automatic inflation monitoring system. The reason is that revenues from domestic electronic toll systems are one of the most important pillars of the development and safe operation of the state-owned national road network. The implementation of automatic inflation monitoring requires a change in the methodology for charging, individual tariffs and the overall legal scope defining the scope of the mandatory sections. The main consequence of the system-built solution, which is automatically updated annually, is that the system will become even more predictable for road users when charging is due. This latter aspect is particularly important in the case of e-tolls, where we hope that the transport society will have time to prepare and that changes in tolls will become more predictable. The level of e-vignette will continue to be established by the Minister for Transport in agreement with the Minister for Public Finance. Tolls are intended to be validated by the user's payment principle in the field of road use, i.e. by road users contributing to the maintenance of the motorway network allowing higher service standards. The amendment of the Water Transport Act allows the amount of administrative fines to be increased from one million to five million forints in order to provide a sufficient deterrent effect on citizens who engage in illegal behaviour. It is important to stress here that the proposal only proposes to increase the ceiling of the fine, which the authority will have to consider in the light of the criteria laid down by law. It can be said that the coronal virus epidemic and emergency measures did not cause significant delays in domestic transport development, and constructions continued with caution. However, by reducing the emergency situation step by step, new constructions could start in more and more places, and these investments will make a significant contribution to the survival of Hungarian construction companies, to keeping jobs and, as we hope, to the creation of new ones. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the government's bill is an essential task both for the relaunch of the economy and for the implementation of our obligations to the European Union. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2020-07-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary, if he would like to speak at the beginning of the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. At the end. Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Economic Committee has not appointed a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in accordance with the timeframes set out on the table. A two-minute speech shall not take place during the debate. I give the floor first to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-01-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The transport package amends 13 laws, and indeed basically the sectoral legislation that concerns transport areas. What I welcome in this rule is that it is in some way trying to help to ensure that toll payers actually pay a category of charge such as the one they pass on to a particular vehicle. I would just like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that while, for example, for the annual fee, the van is in the same category of charge as the passenger car, the van is in the same category as the one in the county sticker, so those who buy such stickers have fallen into this trap. And the solution was not, for example, to admit that the information was misleading, but to fine a lot of van owners. Toll inflation monitoring. Firstly, when my fellow Member said that they could use the highest level of service on national road networks, on motorways motor vehicles, I would like to point out that, even after a dry time, all the motorways had such a bad sea that everything was, but not a high quality service. The other is that, after the renovation of the last few years, the macadamia roads have reappeared to some of our motorways. The old joke was that every time the car jumps, we know what highway we're on. So the thing is, if following toll inflation really meant a higher level of service, I would welcome it, but the problem is that that is not what everyday experiences are about. In addition, there are many types of tax that I would like to add to the development of the road network. If we look at the budgetary laws and accounts of the last ten years, we see that the amount of taxes and charges of this type is not fully spent on the development of the road network, and in Hungary, the motorway is built with three times as much money as anywhere in our neighborhood, which means that even if the entire source is used for this, they can achieve less network development because of the continuous gold price. But what I do not like about this proposal is the issue of investments that are important for the national economy. From 2006 on, as my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs said in the general debate, we hate that expression, because it is always something sloppy, some kind of oligarchs that have an advantage when such a regulation is included in a salad law for any reason. The other is the National Property Act 12. In addition to the new point (g) of Section 4 of the Act, which states that the service may be transferred in a manner specified in the sectoral law, even without a concession or concession contract. I do not know exactly what the purpose of this is; in the general debate several people have said this, one thing is certain: this is not. So it's not that they want to give another specialty to the oligarchs around the government, they want to play. There is no meaningful explanation for this in the general explanation, so the detailed justification of this amendment is overlooked. Just do it, Mr Secretary, so that you can explain this at the end of the debate, because it's nothing, but there's nothing to justify. It is therefore impossible to support this proposal, both because of the inflation monitoring of tolls and because of the amendment of the sector law, which is a priority for the national economy. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member Zsolt Nyitrai of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-87	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that our common goal in the field of transport is to improve the road network effectively across the country and, after this development has been made, to ensure its operation and operation. Ladies and gentlemen, The material before us is a comprehensive amendment, as it affects both rail, shipping, air transport and road transport legislation. I would like to highlight two important points in these areas of amendment. One concerns road transport. I think that it can be a forward-looking and, in any case, logical decision if the roads and their assets are managed by those who have a public mission in this regard. This could lead to a much clearer and clearer ownership situation, which could facilitate a rapid, efficient and effective procedure and increase the efficiency of this whole area in the future. I would like to highlight one more point of the proposal before us, and this is also a general objective: reducing infringements, protecting passengers and improving the social image of the taxi industry, raising the quality of service. The proposal before us is also taking steps in this direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, we have a bill for a very important sector that concerns one of the most important sectors. I agree with the lead speaker of Fidesz, and it is in our best interest to steer things in the right direction here. At the same time, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has said a few very important words, but it is also the work of the dog, the gold price, and the service of the great authority, as opposed to the national interests, that is also something that we can observe. As you said, Congresswoman, there are still questions in the air. I also asked a number of questions to the Secretary of State in the general debate, but he did not comment on them in his closing statement. I am trying to invite Mr Secretary of State here, and I would like to ask you a number of questions, and I would very much like you to take part in the debate. Is it possible to answer not only in such a closed word, but also in a specific way to answer our questions? But by the way, I'm also satisfied with the fact that the lead speaker of Fidesz may be able to answer these questions. I have already mentioned that due to repeated delays in the EU commitment, the market for inter-city bus transport will be opened next year. We consider this to be a very bad direction, and we believe that Community transport is a strategic sector that must be maintained either by the state or by the local government, because it carries very serious risks if marketisation is to take place here. We would certainly support this only in cases where the situation is guaranteed to provide better care for the region. We can't wait any longer, I see that, but at the same time we don't see the guarantees. One of my most important questions would be to the Secretary of State, I have already tried to refer to this in the general debate, where are the ordering systems, where are the supply guarantees that can guarantee the quality and quality of Community transport services, frequency and other guarantees for those living in rural areas or in any region of the country from next year. What is the state of the domestic transport company, the Volán, before such a market opening? So, the purchase of vehicles was properly carried out, and will the Volán be competitive in this regard? What are the guarantees that it will not happen, as you indicated, that a given, say, very economical relationship may be acquired by economic operators in the Moonyard near the government, who may still be forming, but there is a good chance that they will be able to kick the ball at such a market opening? What guarantees can we see from the workers' side? We know that this sector has been very exposed to emigration because of low wages, so there has always been a huge shortage of skilled workers and drivers. If I get an answer to these questions, it is very forward-looking in many ways. I have one more question, and I'm very happy to get an answer from the ruling parties. Here, it has been repeatedly emphasised in the brief comments that the development of the road network is of great interest. Here we can see, unfortunately, that Secretary of State Völner is no longer here, that what is happening now is not the maintenance and renovation of the road network, that a difficult legacy is slowly being worked down by the government, but that it is the difficult legacy that is creating an increasing problem. So if you just think of the lower roads, there are currently 17,000 kilometers in the wrong and the wrong category, but the government doesn't work off this problem, because every year this number gets bigger and bigger. And we can now see that next year's budget, like this year, is only available for the renovation of 400 to 500 kilometers. [[14.30]] How and when does the government intend to face this problem? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply or perhaps the response of the pro-government Members, and I have one more question here within the time frame. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-91	Mr President, Dear House, This is not the first agenda where we must designate the basis and orientation in such a way that it is in national interest that lies before us, or that it is in the interests of NER or foreign investors, perhaps a multinational interest. Obviously, in the case of the previous agenda, when it came to companies providing public services, perhaps the multinational interest was less apparent, but rather the oligarchic interests that existed in Hungary and which can be seen in action, but here we see that there has been a continuous national self-disclaimer for e-tolls for very, very long years now. Although I have many economic and policy opinions on the corporate segment and on the aspects of the various carriers and transport companies, I do not want to talk about this, but rather about things that are more closely related to the proposal and affect the retail segment. So: if the situation in Hungary were to be that the system of e-tolls would become a follower of inflation, and it was really being enforced every year, they would not want to make a separate law about this every year, but I would like to make it visible on the basis of a flow chart, and then the extra revenue would fall into the affected segments of the Hungarian economy, where it would serve the population and the common good in the form of improvements, then I think that we could argue very well about the various technical details here, and we could even reach consensus, since inflation would not be the subject of such an amount being weighted by such an amount as it might not be the subject of a debate as if we had a little bit of the deep layers. We can see that the typical Hungarian life situations remain out of this debate again, so the everyday problems of ordinary Hungarian people. I'll give you an example: someone in the middle of an emergency emergency is having a hard time getting an appointment for medical treatment, not a hospital in the county, but, say, a specialist in the capital, and someone has to bring a sick family member here. What do you do then? You gonna take the freeway and buy a 24-hour freeway sticker? You don't have one, do you? He buys a ten-day, a little over a week's worth. If you want to deliver your family or use any public services for your family, can you buy a weekend sticker or, say, a family sticker? Again, it is the case, because there is no such thing in Hungary. The fact is that you pay for the services you have not used by the masses of Hungarians. The basic philosophy of the market economy is mocked by the system we are talking about. You can make this a follow-up to inflation, subject it to any kind of machination, the fact remains that you collect money from the masses of Hungarians after a service that those Hungarians simply did not use, and they expose masses without taking into account all social and social aspects, who belong to the most vulnerable groups. Thus, not even an individual exemption system has been introduced since 2010 and let us be fair, not even before that, which would exempt our fellow countrymen, for whom it really means a great deal, the few hundred or a few thousand forints. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, a nation state that gave up something is moving with age, using digital tools, it is no coincidence that we are arguing about e-tolls, and they are no longer necessarily collecting the various coins at a certain collection point. Therefore, there would be no technical obstacle to the introduction of both the 24-hour sticker and the introduction of the family discount system, the one-weekly and different stickers, but the only problem is that there would be a loss of budget revenue from all of this, as you know. Therefore, they do not think about this system in the interests of the Hungarian people, so that only those involved pay for the service performed and used, as in the market economy almost anywhere else, but maintain this hybrid, mutant, distorted system, which has been tolerated by everyone in Hungary for years. But let me ask you this, Mr. Secretary of State. It does not speak to you personally, believe me, I have your professional opinion, and it has not been diminished in any way, and I am also addressing my fellow Members with the same. Doesn't the fuel have a tax content? When you fill your car, it is very serious, it pays tens of thousands of forints or even more, and you tax through the purchase of fuel. What is the purpose of these funds? Is the government of Hungary completely free to use it for whatever it is, say, to give it to foreign multi-company companies in the form of a non-refundable discount? Wouldn't it be a task to develop existing systems from these forints? Wouldn't it be a task to untie public services from this? Because we see that they are not working well, a sane person in Hungary today cannot say that the road network is okay, you cannot say that the railway network is okay, you cannot say that important and meaningful progress has been made in terms of transport. Let's see that in the southern region of the capital, a trip will be renewed for two years, it will become dangerous, it will be closed in two weeks, and now it will be built again for years, because amazing, nasty multi-interests will appear in this system and domestic oligarchic interests. As a developer, players can appear in this market that I feel would protect themselves from a decent nation state, and there will be such a nasty over-pricing in this system that a decent nation state would once again act against. We can't see this. But if you are operating this hybrid system not only politically, but also here in the field of transport, we would expect at least social and social aspects to appear. So once again, I would like to have a meaningful, concrete answer to what the government is saying about a 24-hour track sticker, such a nun of a very old right-hander, or a fixed concept with different markers, but which affects a lot of people. Why doesn't he dare, why doesn't he want to talk about it, and why doesn't the government, who calls himself family-friendly, support the Hungarian families that if they don't use a service, they shouldn't pay for it, or if they only use it for one day, they should pay for it for one day? I understand the intention to follow inflation, I understand what is behind this proposal, but if we do not look at it in a system, if we do not put people into this system, the everyday problems and life situations of Hungarian people, then it is very, very difficult to make a meaningful, prudent professional decision on this issue. Therefore, not only do I ask you, but I expect you to deal with real people's real problems. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-01-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry to have to ask you again. I am a little disappointed that the pro-government Members do not want to take part in this debate, they do not want to respond, and I see that Mr Secretary of State will speak once again after the debate is over. Then I'll ask the other question. As I recall, in the last few weeks, we had two conversations about the situation of the railway sidelines. At first, I was very disappointed by the Secretary of State, and I specifically asked him a day or two before the decisions, that the press news was true that the government was preparing to attack the railway sidelines. At that time, Mr. Secretary said a very clear no. Well, we just had to wait a day or two to find out that the MSZP-SZDSZ governments were on their way, and the Fidesz government launched an anti-rural, rail-destructive policy. The experience of the last few weeks, I think they've been pretty serious. If I'm counting correctly, 40 municipalities have protested the dissipation of the railway sidelines, including the pro-government mayors of relatively larger settlements, and we've even seen a courageous Fidesz Member of Parliament who publicly expressed that this is an unprofessional, bad decision. I was also very pleased that the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV acknowledged that this decision should be reviewed. I have written a letter to the Presidents of all county municipalities myself, I have received four or five replies so far, and with one exception I have received the answer from all Fidesz County Presidents that they expect this epidemiological situation to go away and then return to the original transport on the railway sidelines. I note in brackets that this is obviously not the case, but that we should finally establish a timetable system that offers a better, more meaningful alternative to those living in rural areas through rail than before the epidemic. It has also been said by the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV that the economic considerations here are not quite as true as some of the representatives of the government said, since the replacement bus meant 2 billion HUF extra costs to MÁV. So now this was not only an unprofessional and anti-rural, rural-destructive step, but even economically irrational. Mr. Secretary. The emergency is over. When will this outrageous measure be withdrawn? And when will they finally establish a system for railway sidelines to play a worthy role in the transport of the Hungarian countryside? Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
u2020-07-01-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Dávid Héyj. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[14.40]]
u2020-07-01-95	I don't want a debate, and maybe I'm the only one who's wrong, and I'm asking the Secretary of State to correct me then. But the Member has repeatedly said in the debate on the previous law and has now said in the debate that the system of public transport will change from next year onwards. If I am aware of that, Mr State Secretary, and I ask you to say a few words, this is, on the one hand, an EU obligation that we should have introduced from 1 January 2020; however, the Hungarian State has requested that the two-year deferral that the EU will allow us to make maximum use of it. So it will take effect from 1 January 2022, not next year. I understand your problem, but at least then, we say, for the record, that I think that is the case, and, Mr. Secretary, I will ask you to say things about this. I think that the Prime Minister has said everything about the emergency agenda in the hour of the immediate questions on Monday. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Member, the Secretary of State, if anyone else would like to take part in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now ask Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains 13 amendments to the Transport Act. The amendments include, inter alia, the effective development and safe operation of the road network, as well as provisions to address practical issues raised in the application of the law, as well as clarification provisions. The proposal helps to ensure that roads and road assets are managed and owned by those whose statutory public tasks justify this. For reasons of clarity, it is necessary to settle at a legal level that the management of the pavement and bus stop in the residential area is the responsibility of the municipalities. The proposed amendment of the Road Transport Act and the Toll Act provides a legal framework for the integration of the inflation impact system, which will allow the development of detailed rules later. Dear House, The further aim of the bill is to promote practical interpretation of the law during the passenger transport tender procedure and to address the issues raised in practice by the appropriate amendment of the Passenger Transport Services Act. In view of the fact that scheduled inter-local passenger transport is included in the exclusive economic activities of the State in the National Property Act, while EU legislation makes tendering mandatory, we intend to dissolve the regulatory incoherence by amending the Act. As a result, the right to carry out scheduled inter-local road passenger transport as an activity may be transferred to another by means of a concession application or without a concession contract, as defined in the sectoral law. The sectoral law in this case is the Act on Passenger Transport Services. Accordingly, the Act on passenger services does not make the setting-up of a concession company compulsory with the amendment. The Transport Services Act also provides for adequate central access to consolidated annual reports prepared by public authorities. The law allows drivers with a criminal record to be excluded from the market for passenger car transport services, such as passenger cars and passenger cars. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the law on rail transport and on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport serves to transpose the technical pillar of the so-called railway package 4 into national law. The provisions transpose fundamental rules that are necessary to create a coherent legislative system together with an ongoing package of government regulations containing detailed rules and transposition legislation at ministerial level. The amendments, technical regulations, official responsibilities and procedures in the field of railway training, official data management include provisions to ensure that the transposition is fully implemented and that a new operational system is put in place by the deadline. The deadline for transposition of the technical pillar of the 4th railway package was initially 16 June 2020 but, in view of the disease situation caused by the coronal virus, the European Union extended the deadline until 31 October 2020. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your constructive contributions during the general debate. What has been said indicates that we are about to adopt a bill that is important to everyone. The support for the regulatory intention is also confirmed by the fact that no individual amendments were tabled to the bill, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote as well. Thank you very much for your attention. Here are some points to be allowed to reflect briefly on the questions raised and on the comments made. Thank you, Mr David, for your comments. Indeed, the congressman's information is accurate. From 1 January 2020, EU legislation on the provision of inter-local bus and coach passenger services is subject to tendering, but two years of so-called forced designation can be applied. We have designated the current service provider, Volánbusz, but from 1 January 2022 these obligations must be met. What the Congresswoman has asked here is why we are dealing with this issue. Because in order to do this task legally correctly, we have to take into account the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the Passenger Transport Act and the concession law. We have not found a solution that can be implemented by examining the three, and it is therefore necessary to amend the law in order to allow the State to transfer this activity to an economic operator without having to conclude a concession contract with him or establish a concession company. Otherwise, the application will take place on a territorial basis, corresponding to the current structure, so we will not take out any lines for special services. Of course, the tender will include conditions on what quality of service it is obliged to provide, with which buses, with which staff. I believe that this will be in the interests of the travelling public and that the service will be based on the quality of the current bus service. I would also like to inform the honourable Members and gentlemen that, under EU legislation, rail domestic passenger services will be subject to tendering from 2023. Here, according to the current rules, it is likely to be possible to request a derogation for an extension. I will propose this, if necessary, to do so. In connection with the roads: Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. manages a public road network of 32,000 kilometres, two motorways are operated under a concession agreement by the concessors. Since 2010, this government has repaired 6,000 kilometers out of 32,000 kilometers, so we see and know the importance of this. There are three road renovation programs, which we are continuing: the complex road renovation program is entirely in Hungarian funding, the Hungarian village programme, which is very dynamic, and the reconstruction will serve the safe and good availability of the smallest settlements on the four-to-five-digit routes. The third, which will also continue in the next EU programming cycle, is popularly known as TOP, the Area and City Development Operational Programme, which allows for the renovation of municipal roads in EU and Hungarian co-financing. At the same time, the road programme is in progress, which will put Hungarian road development in place until 2024, with a budget of HUF 3200 billion from European Union and Hungarian budget sources, and we are proud to have more than HUF 1800 billion, i.e. more than 55 percent of Hungary's budget. [[Dr. László Varga will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] This year, too, we hand over nearly 130 kilometers of motorways to users: the M15 was handed over in the days, the M25 will be available to Eger in the summer, two sections of the M4 will be delivered to Cegléd-Abony on the one hand, and the Berettyóújfalu-Nagykereki-country border, so you will be able to travel from Budapest to Ártánd. By the end of the year there will be a new section of the M44 between Kondoros and Békéscsaba, i.e. between Kecskemét and Békéscsaba, the motorway will be available from Tisakürt, and we are also proud that this year the Danube Bridge in Komárom will be ready. [[14.50]] So I think that in both road construction and road renovation we are implementing a very fair program, and in order to ensure that the state of the existing road system does not deteriorate further, this year we will use HUF 95 billion for the Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. support from which they operate this 32,000-mile road network, maintain it and make minor repairs. There have also been criticisms of motorways. At the moment, the M1 motorway is being renovated between M0 and Tata; we are renovating this extremely frequented road section with a value of nearly HUF 26 billion. This is one of the oldest motorway sections in Hungary, since this is where the motorway was built after the M7. Last year, a larger section was renewed in the area of M7 and Balatonaliga, there too can be used without problems, on the M3 also a small section, and, of course, the renewal of motorways is carried out continuously, according to the needs. In the case of M5 and M6, in accordance with their obligations under the concession contract, the terms and conditions must be implemented. On Monday, Prime Minister, with regard to rail transport, has already reflected on this problem, so I do not want to deal with it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-01-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. I'll wait for the Secretary of State to switch. [[It's a short break.]] I ask the staff to assure Professor Dr. József Bódis, Secretary of State, that he has arrived... [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Theatre and Film, the Foundation for the University of Theatre and Film Arts and the Commission's submission on the asset allocation to the University of Theatre and Film Arts and the proposal for a summary amendment follows in a row. The government referral is T/10745. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to our fellow Member, Mr Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. The time frame is up to eight minutes.
u2020-07-01-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for the University of Theatre and Film Arts, the Foundation for the University of Theatre and Film Arts and the University of Theatre and Film Arts T/10745. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The operating model of the University of Theatre and Film has not changed substantially in the last three decades. The university is the smallest state-run university, the number of students is constantly and dynamically increasing, with the possibility of infrastructure and teaching capacity. On the basis of the bill before us, for the University of Theatre and Film Arts, there will also be a form of trust in the public interest, which will make the operation of the institution more efficient and flexible, thus allowing the university to involve significantly more market resources in funding, which will stimulate the quality of education. The specific profile and relationship system of the model will also enable a broad support community to be established. In addition to asset management, the Foundation will be responsible for running the education, research, student and teacher support programme, providing support based on necessity and facilitating the operation of talent-care programmes. The proposal states that the employees of the university in the status of civil servants will be given a new status, after which they will continue to work in the employment relationship under the Labour Code. This change will make a significant contribution to the worthy financial recognition of their work. Moreover, it is important to note that the transformation does not affect the relationship between the current students, but they can already feel the positive consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, We ask for the support of the submitted bill, since its aim is to transform the university into a recognised knowledge centre at national and international level, to further strengthen its role in cultural life, and to act as a cooperative institution that may be worthy of the prominent and unique depositary of Hungarian culture in the future. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-01-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The presentation of the minority opinion will be made by Congressman Gergely Arató, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-101	Mr President, Dear House, Firstly, I must start by saying that this bill is most strongly opposed, not supported, harmful by the opposition members of the Legislative Committee; and it would continue to be considered appropriate that the Government withdraw this proposal and, after consultation, submit it to Parliament after appropriate professional preparation, supported by appropriate arguments. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair. Dr. István Tiba occupies the notary seat.]] At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we have tried to resolve at least a little with a few amendments the situation that will arise with this bill. We have made an attempt to at least enforce the minimum professionalism in this bill; the guarantees of university autonomy are somewhat supported, confirmed, to avoid the situation that we believe will occur with the adoption of this bill in this form, so that Parliament adopts legislation contrary to Hungary's international commitments, the Bologna Charter, the European Charter of Higher Education and the Hungarian Basic Law. The opposition proposals, the proposals tabled by me and other Members, both at the committee's meeting and at the Legislative Committee meeting were essentially aimed at resolving at least a few issues in relation to this bill. The first of these concerned, and perhaps this is the easiest, and I still recommend this to the Honourable Parliament for consideration, because we will ask for a separate vote on this at tomorrow's meeting, so that at least the inadequacy is not followed by Parliament's wish to pass a change of this weight through a higher education institution in two months. Think, fellow Members, that negotiations on conversion have been going on for months and years everywhere in higher education, and you are now declaring a judgment and expect a higher education institution to start operating in a new model from 1 September. This is obviously impossible, it is impossible to do so; it is not worthy of any of the institutions of Hungarian higher education, nor of the SZFE. So this is unacceptable. We have therefore proposed that we push the entry into force of this proposal at least a year, even in the hope that this one year may also be able to correct, on the basis of experience, this concept, on this legislation, as will be the case in the next bill, with regard to the provisions adopted earlier, so that it is possible here to give a little more thought to what the government and the majority in Parliament want. Our second proposal was to see that it is not simply a transformation, but there is, or should I put it politely, the back-up intention that the representatives of the Ministry generally deny, but the right-wing press and the right-wing public figures in it do not hide at all that the intention is to decapitate this university, to lead it through the board of trustees of the Foundation, which puts this university on a completely different course, to put it mildly, I said earlier, to push it off the respectable and respectable course that it has been in the past. [[15.00]] The Ministry refuses to appoint a rector supported by the Senate of the University for over six months now. They refuse to accept the rector in whom the university community trusts. This is obviously an abuse of university autonomy. What's happening now is that he's out of the Ministry, transferred to the board of trustees the right to appoint a rector. The government washes its hands, and then the trombones sent there carry out the task the government wasn't brave enough to do. Therefore, we proposed at the Legislative Committee that the right to appoint a rector should remain in the Senate in an exceptional way. By the way, we would normally agree with that, but in this particular case, because of the political sensitivity of the matter, this is what we consider necessary. Once again, I can say that if we are wrong and you have no ulterior motives, it is not your intention to send a Commissar to the head of this university, then you will support our proposal, and then the leader supported by the Senate and accepted by the institution's community can take the lead in this institution. Finally, in our third proposal, we proposed that the state not fully hand over maintenance rights to the board of trustees of the foundation, because although this seems to increase the autonomy of the university, but this is not true, this increases the autonomy of the board of trustees and makes it uncontrollable what decisions the board makes on the basis of which principles it takes. Keep the state responsibility, interpel the Secretary of State or Minister here, how they treat this university and do not have to argue with phantoms. Unfortunately, all three proposals have been rejected, but we are asking Parliament to support them. However, there was another proposal at the Legislative Committee, which was submitted by pro-government representatives and supported by the government. This is an extremely dangerous proposal. It is suggested that the name of the foundation should be that it is a foundation for the university, and that it should run only as the Foundation for Theatre and Film Arts. This suggests to us that the property the foundation receives is not intended for the benefit of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, but for other purposes, we do not know to whom, we do not know for what purpose they intend to transfer this property. I must say that this is completely unacceptable, that this type of proposal cannot be supported. Finally, let me also say that it belongs to the chronicle of committee meetings that it is shameful, and I do not say that in unprecedented but democratic parliaments it was unacceptable that the State Secretary representing the Ministry refused to answer the most basic questions at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, including what the purpose of the proposal for amendment I mentioned most recently was. And to blame not only the government, it was also a shame that the Cultural Committee refused to listen to the acting rector of the university, to give him the opportunity to express his opinion on this draft, and even the chairman of the committee said that the acting rector of the university, his deputy rector, could not be regarded as an expert on this matter. We don't know who the expert is then, but it says a lot about your higher education policy. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-102	Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now. [[József Bódis: No, thank you.]] No. You'll have 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. The item will be discussed in a time frame. Fidesz has 27 minutes, KDNP has 13, Jobbik has 9, MSZP has 9, DK has 7, LMP has 6 and Dialogue has 5 and independents have 4 minutes. We are listening to the speeches by the speakers first announced. I give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Unfortunately, I can't see it from here; speak to the microphone, because I can't see it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm here!]] Very good. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-07-01-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already made my position on this bill in the general debate. Allow me to read the letter from the university leaders. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, We have listened to Parliament's debate on the bill, which will determine the future of our university. Thank you for your speeches and for your meaningful attention to the situation. In many ways, the day of June brought new light to the model change. So far, although the university's management does not agree with the transformation of one of Hungary's most important artistic training institutions into a private university, it took note of the government's intention, tried to see the possibility in the transformation plan, expressed doubts and questions in the discussions, but was cooperative. On the afternoon of the parliamentary debate, we met with Minister Lívia Pavlik, who briefed us on the tasks to be carried out. His answers to our questions have made it clear to us that neither university autonomy nor guarantees of the validation of expertise appear in the new model. Due to the legal background of the transformation, the rector may be appointed for an indefinite period by the future curatorium without applying. In our interpretation of university autonomy, it is only possible to ensure that the powers of the Senate are not undermined and that the rector remains appointed by open tender on the proposal of the Senate for a fixed term. There was no substantive response from the rapporteur to the doubts or even concrete proposals raised in the parliamentary debate about autonomy. From a professional point of view, it is worrying that the appointment and selection of curators defining the future of the university is informal, opaque. We were surprised at the fact that several speeches in Parliament expressed the intention to regulate the university in explicit and implicit terms as a reason for the change of model. We reject the unspoken but obvious assumption that our university does not value national identity. Art education is also responsible for raising awareness of national culture, learning about the concept of national identity, analysing and constantly rethinking the deep relationship that adds. The past, achievements and works of the University of Theatre and Film Arts are part of the national identity. In our doctoral school, scientific work is carried out at a high level, and it complements our art education in a complex way. We cannot develop our international relations and disciplines to the extent necessary, primarily due to financing and infrastructure problems. We have not yet rejected the challenges of the entertainment industry, we also teach the entertainment genres at a high level in our education, but we draw attention to the fact that art education cannot be the task of preparing for entertainment, and this type of accreditation process is difficult to imagine. We are shocked that systematic counterfeiting also affects the highest level of decision-making. Art is a exposed field, but this is not a reason for human offenses occurring and condemned in any area of life to become blurry with the judgment of art branches and an institution. For the most part, we strongly and repeatedly refuse to interpret as a general phenomenon two individual cases, none of which occurred at the university, from which we have drawn the consequences concerning us. Ignoring the facts in any parliamentary speech is unacceptable. If the aim of the model change is indeed to strengthen the intellectual strength of the university, then we ask the honourable legislators to include the guarantees of university autonomy in the law, and the state should not give up its founding rights, they should not be handed over to the Board. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Finally, I would like to say that culture exists in Hungary beyond Attila Vidnyánszky. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-01-104	Thank you very much. Mr Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, will be the speaker. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, My fellow Members today have a good chance to receive the professional creed of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, in which Vice-Rector Eszter Novák talks about the integrity of information. I would very much ask you to read it, because the Vice-Rector is very clear that you have ignored your opinion and your experience. As the head speaker of the MSZP, I have already told you how we feel about this. Under no circumstances can the MSZP fraction support this decision, especially given that after that, I participated in their protest myself. Now I would like to share with you an open letter in which known artists would like to ask Zsolt Semjén to withdraw the draft law on the change of model submitted by him, and László Palkovics is expected to start meaningful negotiations with representatives of the university community. Mr Zsolt Semjén Deputy Prime Minister, Minister László Palkovics and Members of the Parliament! For 155 years at the University of Theatre and Film, generations have passed on knowledge and the love of the profession. In order to protect our national culture, we declare that we do not support or even consider any transformation that is taking into account the vast experience accumulated at the university to be dangerous. [[15.10]] The events of the past weeks show that the planned change of model without any impact assessment, at an unduly accelerated pace, is considered reckless and unprepared by the management, teachers, former and current student and responsible professional organisations of the SZFE. That is why we ask Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, to withdraw his bill. We ask Minister László Palkovics to enter into meaningful negotiations with representatives of the university community. Set the stakeholders at a table and build on impact analyses, developed medium- and long-term plans for innovative change. Members of the Parliament, please do not vote for the law in its current form. Only by mutual respect and cooperation can responsible, constructive work determine the future of a long-standing institution and Hungarian theatre and cinema for many decades. Budapest, 1 July 2020 Who are the signatories? Elemér Ragályi, Emmy-prize winner, Kossuth Prize winner, worthy and excellent artist; Róbert Alföldi, Mari Jászai Prize winner; Tamás Ascher, Kossuth Prize winner, Mari Jászai Prize winner, Artist worth; Juli Bász, Kossuth Prize winner, Eszter Jászai Prize winner, Krista Bíró, Mari Prize winner, Alexandra Jászai Prize winner, European Film Prize winner; Enikő Börcsök, Mari Prize winner, György Jászai Prize winner, György Jászsús, Hungarian actor, Kosssuth Prize winner; Eszter Csákányi Prize winner, Mari Sél Prize winner; György Börcsők, Horvárász, György Cszárász, Hungarian actor, Kossuth Prize winner, Cssszányi, Cserhalász Mari Séló; Cszálló Sélász; Gyárágágázárágágágágágágágágámász; Gyárágámélász; Jász; Gyárágágágágágágágágágágágágág, Jász; Jász; Jász, Jászsázásázáságágágágágágágág, Gyárág, Gyár, Gyár, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárágágág, Gyárágágágág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárág, Gyárágág, Gyárág, Gyárágág, Horvág, Gyárág, Gyárágágágág, Gyárágág, Horvávál, Gyárág, Gyárág, I, in any case, respectfully ask the Secretary of State, that I was confident in the debate where I expressed my opinion, expressed my questions, but it was quite clear that there was no fair preparation, and they do not believe that this foundation will continue to represent a real, real set of values. The government's gonna have a bitch, taking his money. I'm asking you very, very nicely to reconsider, to have a decent preparation. My fellow Member Gergely Arató has made it very clear that I have not been heard by those who have been operating this institution for many years. By the way, in this creed, here's the last 30 years. I think that you should have the patience to agree fairly, to take both students and teachers seriously, and to do what you may indeed do, this institution, as you speak, can remain a decent institution of the nation for my country. Thank you.
u2020-07-01-106	Thank you very much. The speeches by Members seeking a normal word are now taking place; first, the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-107	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai presented the list of the greats of Hungarian culture, the wonderful artists who asked Parliament in a letter not to make this decision, do not make this wrong decision. Here I have to recall that I also mentioned this letter in my comments before the morning agenda, where, if I understand it correctly, I will check it in the minutes, and yelled that the cook was not among them. That's true, but in the meantime, I've received an offer from the university that if the government so requests and it convinces you, they'll be happy to add a list of the great culinary arts who oppose this plan, because, thank God, among the excellent chefs, there are plenty of friends of the theatre, the film and the University of Theatre and Film Arts. But I would like to say to you, and this letter has been mentioned by Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, we have received another very important piece today, because, in recent debates over the past period, there have been a series of unfair accusations about this university. We have read a series of opinions that say why this institution is needed. Let me mention three of these. One of the things that hasn't happened here in 30 years is that time has stopped at this university to live with a movie title. On the other hand, it is said that the conditions for high-quality training are not guaranteed here, which is why change is necessary. The third argument is that this institution serves only a narrow theater elite in Budapest, and otherwise it does not perform useful activities for Hungarian culture or Hungarian theatre as a whole. Let's look at the facts of the material sent by the university leaders. What about the last 30 years? We have received a very detailed chronology, where the various changes and steps that have taken place in the past period are listed. Without saying all this, starting with 1990, the establishment of the new theatre director training, the launch of the puppet theatre training in 2000, the establishment of the doctoral school, the reform of the movement training, the reform of the musical training in 2003, the Bologna changeover in 2006, the opening of the theater dramaturg training in 2007, the further accreditation of the doctoral school in 2009, and so on, and so on, I could continue. In 2011, the reform of the training of film trades, then the further development of doctoral education, the dramatic training of the instructor, the beginning of the PhD course of the doctoral school. In other words, I have to tell you that there is no mention of anything happening here for 30 years. This institution, in the same way as most Hungarian higher education institutions, has developed continuously over the past decades with changing needs, changing circumstances and, of course, changing legislative structure, changing rules and conditions for higher education. [[15.20]] What about professional standards? I think it may be unfair to talk about this because you can't really say that you should change the University of Theatre and Film because you don't have the right standards. They describe, very widely and in detail, the awards that have been awarded to students from the SZFE, including young students. There are only a few examples: for example, the Junior Prima Prize, which awards young talent, since 2010, is 90 percent alumni from the University of Theatre and Film Arts; 75 percent of the winners of the great state prize were awarded in the theatre area, 54 percent in the field of cinema and the University of Theatre and Film Art; the SZFE managed to receive student-Oscar awards in three consecutive years, and István Kovács received this highly prestigious award from the students in 2018. The same is true of the fact that the quality of an institution is characterized by the fact that we know that the University of Theatre and Film Arts is one of the institutions each year where one of the largest over-subscriptions that most people would like to choose is one of the institutions. What about, uh, let's see where the students end up? First of all, according to the latest data, 68 percent of those who graduated from 2009-2019 are located in state, municipal theatres, 42 percent in the capital, 26 percent in the countryside, which is broadly equivalent to the proportion of Hungarian theatres; in addition, 6 percent in independent companies, 22 percent in productions or freelancers, and 4 percent in those who are truly untrained, career modification. I have to say that there is no reason for any institution to be ashamed that, if this is the case with the guidance of the course, the data of the draft, and it is also very clear from these data that there is no mention that the SZFE would only be training for a few theatres in Budapest, it would only express the needs of a few theatres in Budapest. I don't want to tell you all the data. You've all received this data. I suggest you study it. I have to say, there's a classic saying: what works doesn't have to be fixed. The University of Theatre and Film Arts over the past decades, I can say that for over 150 years, but in recent decades it has proved in particular that it is capable of renewal, but it is also able to represent permanent values that we all expect of a higher education institution. We expect you to adapt to age, but keep the eternal values that may be important in art and education, in science. We expect you to be able to represent continuity and change at the same time. The University of Theatre and Film Arts is capable of doing this, operating on the basis of university autonomy, the community of teachers and students, the academic community that is cooperating in this institution, can function well. There is no need for what you propose, no professional reason behind what you propose, no reasonable reason for what you propose. There is one reason, if there is: raw political intent. We recommend stopping on this path, not making this university a playground and plaything for party politics, power pride. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-108	Thank you very much. Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2020-07-01-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I didn't trust the Greeks, even if they brought me a gift and how well I did, Mr. Secretary, if you remember the first sentence of my lead speaker. [[József Bódis nodds.]] When we were discussing the conversion of the six other universities into foundation forms here, between the walls of this House, because I said that the foundation form ab ovo is not from the devil, indeed, Mr Secretary of State, it is just that university autonomy and academic freedom must be preserved in this form as well. That is why I have submitted to all six universities and, in the context of the University of Acting Arts, my amendment on which this House will vote once again on Friday, and here again I would like to draw the attention of my honourable fellow Members to the fact that there is still a way to correct that they do not make a fundamental mistake, to accept my amendment, according to which the elected university leaders elected by the community of university citizens should be admitted to the Board by office, ex officio. How good it was that I did not believe the Greeks, for those who look at the list of curatorial appointments at the six universities clearly see that the Greeks did not bring gifts, but want to take away the universities. You can see that they are putting active ministers in the curatorium of a university, and they are making Mr. Csányi the chairman of the Curatorium of Sopron University, my narrower Patria, congratulations. He's really the best expert at Sopron University, I'll admit that, but I don't know what he wants to pay for or what he wants to buy. This is your higher education policy, you can see it, because the appointments, the names speak for themselves. On the other hand, the names listed by my fellow Member from Gurma in connection with the University of Acting Arts are on the other hand. Culture is a national foundation. Culture cannot be suppressed, even in the darkest Rákosi era, in the longer term, as the policy of knowledge, anti-cultural and intellectual Fidesz has tried in the last ten years. I was at that Sunday protest myself, and then I discussed it with the university leaders, and I must say that the ministerial meeting on Wednesday was deeply disappointed, honourable Secretary of State. Because what it is like for a responsible minister to say: "Jesus Christ, the discussion has turned to a political event! Well, good afternoon, Minister, as if you were a politician as Minister of the Responsible Government, and, may I say, do you and a politician normally have political discussions or in which movie are we in, Mr. Secretary of State and Minister, on this matter? If you're talking to your boss, give it to him. [[József Bódis nodds.]] So let's stop fooling around with each other, I'm serious. What do you mean, "political"? ! Of course, the elected leaders of the university went to this meeting with constructive proposals, which were simply swept off the table, as have all our other well-meaning opposition amendments, as my fellow Members have already said. I think that with the far-reaching professional experience, with the far-reaching professional goodwill, both the responsible leaders and students of the Academy of Fine Arts concerned and the opposition politicians have approached the issue; there is only one player here who seems to be unstoppable in the direction of pressing the "yes" button again on Friday as usual. Cancel this proposal, ceterum censeo, because it will indeed destroy Hungarian culture in the longer term, and for the Folk Party Jobbik, as stated in yesterday's statement of principle, the welfare and freedom of Hungarian citizens are the most important, and well-being includes access to the assets of culture, including access to the assets and achievements of acting and cinema. And we can only ensure this, as in every decent civil democracy, because that is what we believe, if the freedom of artists remains, the autonomy of universities. Dear House, Ceterum censeo, withdraw this bill! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-07-01-110	Thank you very much. The group leader of the LMP, Congressman László Keresztes, is coming. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-111	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think we can say that the Members before me have given all the relevant information here, right, the most important thing was that the open letter of those concerned was presented, so thank you to my fellow Members, both of them, who have accepted this, and I think we can also say here that there has been no political debate here, so here we are no longer discussing a policy issue, Gergely Arató at the end of his comment, pointing out that this is a very obvious, hard political decision. I think that the Secretary of State is not in a decent position, that in recent months he has tried to represent a policy debate from a professional perspective, but I think that everything has fallen down here. Here it turned out to be a rock-hard political manual control, an ideology-driven political manual control. And in fact, we can say here, Mr. Secretary of State, that specifically all those involved here protest the decision, protest the leadership of the university, the teachers, the present and the former students, and we have heard the list of prominent artists who have expressed their objection. So I think that there is little worth continuing a professional debate here, but I would also like to ask you one thing. By the way, I don't think the Secretary of State agrees with this decision, you're in an executive role here, I don't even believe Minister Palkovics agrees, I think Minister Palkovic is already somewhere dealing with the issue of astronautry. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Obviously, for a gigaministerium like this, this is what is more close to his professional qualities, the question of astronautry, or other issues of an industrial nature. [[15.30]] However, I am interested in this, Mr. Secretary of State, and I think it is quite right that this decision has caused such widespread indignation, just so we can see, you can say, Mr. Secretary of State, there are hardly any of us here in this Chamber, in what form, from whom, how this political dictatorship came, political instruction. I do not think that this idea was conceived in the mind of the Deputy Prime Minister, or that Minister Palkovic had just thought of it, and he made it up in addition to astronautry and other ideas. In what form did this political dictatorship and political instruction come, in whose form did this come? In fact, quite frankly, Mr. Secretary, what kind of room does the Ministry have at this time? What scope does the Secretary of State in charge of this area have? Here, you have to implement a dictatorship, you have to suffer these debates, you have to listen to them, or you have to look at the different reports about legitimate protests, and then you have to press the button, but you have to tell us how these outrageous political decisions are made. I think that's something we should know. I don't have many illusions. Obviously, the opposition will unanimously press 'no' to this proposal. It is certainly a serious lesson, as my fellow Member Brenner Koloman has said, that it is much less worthwhile to have a professional debate with the government than before. I think there's barely any area here where professionalism prevails. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-112	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak out against the remaining time frame? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, First of all, I would like to thank you for your active debate and participation in the debate that is about to take place before the final vote. I would like to point out that, in the context of the model change programme, the case of the University of Theatre and Film Arts has triggered the biggest debate and reflections, while perhaps I would like to answer the question of Mr Keresztes immediately, the idea of a change of model, the fact that it has been present in the higher education system for years, and I could even assume that it is because of me, but I would not want to draw this responsibility on myself. In the context of the debate on the first change of model bill, I indicated that, three and a half years ago, at a scientific conference on higher education, I gave a presentation at Corvinus, which, on the one hand, discussed the constraints of the then and most typical Hungarian state higher education system and the opportunities to break out of it. Basically, the form of foundation was formulated, where the autonomy of universities is based on the fact that they have wealth, tribal wealth, other income, and are the maintainers of a curatorium drawn up on the basis of professional criteria. This was also published later, and is still available on the pages of Reality. That's what happened. Then I became involved in this function, in which I became involved in the management of higher education. It is obvious that man wants to carry out the administrative activity involving this position and task system on the basis of his professional ideas that have become crystallized, formulated and programmed in his previous professional life. There was even a question of who placed the order. Basically, it came from a professional side, but there is no doubt that we have gone before the government with the program of higher education model changes and transformations, and the government has considered which institutions such a change of model could result in a more successful operation. The issue of autonomy has been raised several times. The change of model alone does not change autonomy. This is very precise in the Constitution and in the Higher Education Act, but there is still a change in operational autonomy, because it is no longer a law on public finances, it is not a law on property and a law on budgets, but these model-changing universities can operate under much more flexible and flexible conditions. I am very sympathetic to the fact that, while we are receiving a million criticisms of centralising everything and trying to solve it with central management, now that we are taking the important step in the higher education system for the first time or in a larger number of times that we are opening up a different space for universities in their operating conditions, we are being criticised from the other side. Obviously such a transformation requires serious preparation, many, many reconciliations, and while there is a date, a definite date for the conversion, it is a process that has started in the past, taking place today, and then comes after the change of model date. Obviously, you don't have to imagine this as a decision, everyone can sit back here on the Canaan, and then you don't have to do anything. This is a very hard work for everyone, of course, on the part of the university leadership. We are always critical of the lack of coordination. I'll tell you by date when the meeting took place. Yours, to say the least, I trust your judgment to say that this is either enough or not enough. While this program has been in the higher education system for years, last year Corvinus went through this model change. In the autumn, we talked at several university forums and chancellors' meetings about how, in the coming period, we will do this in relation to several institutions, but in connection with the Theatre and Film Arts, when the case appeared as a concrete task, the first meeting was held on 17 February in connection with a chancellor conference, but as a separate program. Then on February 24, we had a personal meeting at the Ministry with the rector and chancellor of all art universities. At a video conference on 22 April, a special meeting took place with the current head of the university. On 29 April, with Deputy State Secretary Zita Horváth, we went to Mr. Rector, Vice-Rector's study and all the meetings took place there. There was another video conference on May 19th. On 3 June, negotiations took place at the Ministry with Minister Lívia Pavlik and the head of the university. On 16 June, Minister welcomed representatives of professional organisations who were otherwise nominated by signatories to an earlier open letter as negotiating partner. On 24 June, we received two vice-rectors from the university and held a discussion on the subject. On the same day, we also met with the student representative of the university in the presence of Minister. That's nine times. [[15.40]] I would also like to say that we have always answered every question that has been asked. Another question is that someone feels that only the discussion where his opinion prevails is the right answer when we can give him positive answers. By the way, each time we gave a professional and professional answer. Undoubtedly, during the discussions, the university's management showed a not very positive attitude towards the change of model. That's what they say, and so do I. By the way, if you look back at your press releases, they only found out from the press, but the press release tells you that there was a meeting the day before, so it's still inclusive. Several comments have suggested that the whole thing is political. No, it's a professional question, it's clear from a professional perspective that the needs of model changes have been formulated, and for our part we want to go further along professional criteria and parameters. Maintenance control. Well, I don't know which maintenance management is more positive in your vision, it's done by a more stringent and tighter state or professional gremlin. I think that the professional gnome certainly has a better understanding of the specifics of an institution than of all state universities, such as a secretary of state. The speakers referred to a number of documents on the creed of the university, on the one hand, and, on the other. On our part, no one has ever claimed that professional decline or lack of professional development is typical of the university, we have always appreciated and appreciated the work that is going on there, and I trust that we will continue to appreciate it. Whether such a discussion becomes a political forum or not is a matter of individual perception. I was present at the forum where the students' representatives appeared. Yes, there was the nature of this political forum, but I also agree with that. Well, politics can appear in the ministries, so the Minister is most likely to have said such a sentence, but he did not say it with hurtful intent, but simply recorded it as a fact. In fact, I would also like to say that when the representatives of professional organisations were present, the differences in such artistic trends were also revealed. I think that is also natural, because everyone speaks their position on the basis of their own creed and skill and interest. But I trust that, for example, the case of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, its quality work so far and the subsequent period, if the change of model is voted by the Honourable Parliament, the high level of professional activity determining that era can bring the current differences between different artistic directions to a common denominator. After all, everyone present and expressing in it agreed that this is an important value, a very high value, and that it is extremely important to be able to go further with regard to higher professional productions. So I think that this is also an important question. Another recurring and emerging problem is the declining state aid for the institution. I have collected budget support for the last eight years: in 12 there were 655 million grants, in 16 there were 736 million, in 19 there were 908 million and in 2020 there were 1 billion 49 million. It's like I'm not reading these numbers as a downward trend. I do not think that the change of model is an unconstitutional programme, nor do I think that business and other interests will come to light. I trust that if Parliament adopts this bill, a new era will begin in the life of the university, in which all actors, students, educators and other supporters will find the method, the way to support this to be a truly prosperous university with high professional, scientific and cultural quality. Thank you very much, and give me your support.
u2020-07-01-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and on the amendment of the laws relating to the change in the maintenance of certain higher education institutions and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/10861. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 25 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. T/10861 on the amendment of Act T/10861 on the amendment of Act T/10861 on the amendment of the laws relating to the change in the maintenance of certain higher education institutions Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Among the six recently accepted model-changing higher education institutions, the current property management situation of the institutions was reviewed on the basis of the initiative of Széchenyi István University and the University of Veterinary Medicine. The University of Veterinary Medicine has stated that it needs a smaller proportion of a property than was previously planned. The Széchenyi István University does not require a property provided to the approved law, therefore initiated its removal from the law. The bill before us contains these requests, as this will only give universities the property that is absolutely necessary for its operation. In addition, by amending the Higher Education Act, the Faculty of Education of John von Neumann University can join the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár. The current proposal ensures that the university owns the housing stock that is essential for teacher training, together with movable property. Finally, the aim of the proposal is to get the company's share in Taeg Tanulmányi Erdőgazdaság Zrt., which is 100% owned by the State, into the property of the Sopron University Foundation, which will continue to ensure the goals of its foundation, and the company will be able to contribute to the complex forest and wildlife management training, as well as to the practical nature conservation training in the long term, to the financial benefit of Sopron University. [[15.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the arguments put forward, the proposal should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-01-116	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, it is my duty to ask you how you wish to speak now. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, representative of the LMP, has applied for a normal speech. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I just want to take advantage of your presence and ask you a very quick question. Here we have argued a lot over the past few weeks, in months on the change of higher education model and on the change of grades, this is called a fantasy by the government, and we have said that as long as student numbers are so much reduced, while rural institutions are clearly weakening, and as long as an assistant's wages are lower than that of a loader in Hungary today, we cannot talk about changing degrees; or it may be about changing degrees, but not in the right direction. At the same time, I have one question, and I have asked the Secretary of State several times, and I have received information from the Secretary of State about the withdrawal of the university, about the situation, the consultation with university leaders, and there is some chance that the universities will still escape these austerity measures and withdrawals. I mean, let me tell you, we're both a little weird to talk home. It was not long ago that Minister Palkovic moved the Chancellor of the University of Pécs, Zoltán Jenei. It is possible to know why this happened, and in the future when the new Chancellor is appointed, we can get a guarantee from the Secretary of State or the Ministry that when the new Chancellor is appointed, the professional, not political, will be promoted, so that he will not be appointed from political political policy to the very important chancellor. Thank you very much for the answers.
u2020-07-01-118	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-07-01-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, With regard to the bill, I would just like to emphasise that all the amendments are already the result of the work that could be summarised through fine-tuning and its name. I think that, given the needs of the institutions, we have responded well to them. I can answer Mr Crossman's question that the outbreak of the virus has brought about a situation that has led to budgetary transfers; it has also affected the University of Pécs, which was initially a higher value and then went below 2 billion. There have been consultations with universities, and there is an ongoing examination of the impact of the university's institutional budget on this situation. That's one side. On the other hand, for example, in relation to the University of Pécs, a decision has been taken in principle. In the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" campus development and renovations, a 5,7 billion-dollar gap was created here, which I trust will be the answer in the near future. So the body that has the source has already made the decision, but we have to go through the process, of course. In addition, the University of Pécs was recently decided to organise two national laboratories. One, virological, I think, has become well-known in the context of the virus epidemic, and the other, in recognition of the results of the work of a 10-year research group, is a national human reproductive laboratory, each with a source of between 2.5 and 2.5 billion, so the university is enriched with them. And there are a number of other applications available that can also provide source applications, such as a 700 million increase in the skill lab case, and we are also working to address the lack of resources in the building of the dental clinical block in an appropriate way. Yes, Chancellor Jenei asked for his acquittal, but this was obviously preceded by a consultation in which a mutual agreement was reached. There have been problems with the progress of certain projects that led the decision-maker to believe that this step should be taken. I don't know who the new chancellor is yet, but I'm pretty sure we're gonna put out a tender. There's probably gonna be more candidates, and I'm hoping that from a good round of candidates, we'll be able to recommend a suitable chancellor to lead the university. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for your support, and I would like you to be able to provide the same positive support for the bill in the final vote. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-07-01-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on Friday's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications relating to the obligation to transpose the Directive establishing the European Electronic Communications Code and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/10525. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10525 amending Act C of 2003 on Electronic Communications in connection with the obligation to transpose the Directive establishing a European Electronic Communications Code. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us envisages the adoption of an EU directive, as it is mandatory to transpose it into our national law due to our obligation to harmonise legislation. The European Electronic Communications Code (2018/1972) Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council was published in the Official Journal of the Union on 17 December 2018. The purpose of this bill is to establish the legislation necessary for the transposition of the above-mentioned code in Hungary. Member States shall ensure the transposition of the Code by 21 December 2020 at the latest. The amendments concern end-user rights, spectrum management, access rules in line with the regulatory objective of the Code, strengthening competition between service providers and encouraging investment in order to build very high capacity networks without interruption. In addition to the above, the importance of the new regulation is also shown by the fact that it affects a large number of people, as almost all people have internet subscriptions and a significant proportion of businesses are already subscribers. The Code updates EU telecoms rules by reviewing the current regulatory framework for communication in 2009, while allowing for the repeal of obsolete procedures and provisions. It should be stressed that, in addition to the amendment of the Communications Act, some regulations will be resolved at regulation level. The objectives of the new Code include, inter alia, encouraging investment in high-speed broadband networks, better consumer protection, ensuring consistent application of rules and ensuring a level playing field for all market participants. [[16.00]] An essential element of the proposal is that the new code will improve the situation of consumers among others by making switching between service providers easier, as contract terms will be more transparent and comparable, thereby providing greater protection for users. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-122	Thank you very much. I would first like to ask the author, Mr Sándor Bodó State Secretary, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Mr Balczó Zoltán, representative of Jobbik, will now take the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-123	Mr President, thank you for the floor. It is a highly diverse professional law, and it is very rightly intended to summarise existing directives in a code, but not only to summarize them, but to renew them through changes. Since the general debate, I have asked for expert opinions, more, because it is indeed so diverse that I do not think that there is a specialist who understands all of them. These opinions have consistently confirmed that this is a positive shift both from a competition point of view and, above all, from a consumer point of view. What raised concerns, which was also raised here in the general debate on the opposition side, was the question of how the National Media and Infocommunications Authority might be given additional powers. We know that I do not want to justify here that opposition parties have their own criticism of how this organisation works, but ultimately our final position: that an institution may abuse an opportunity should not prevent us from supporting legislation that makes a positive change in an otherwise very wide area. On that basis, I could give you examples, but I don't want to, we can imagine how many places he could be. A member of an armed force may be involved in a dispute with his neighbor using a weapon, and then we say that this is such an abuse that we should consider whether this right to use weapons is granted. So it is a little similar that the reason is not enough to support a code that otherwise brings positive change in all aspects, covering a wide range of areas. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-124	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to comment? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Mr. Secretary, do you wish to reflect? [[For signal:]] Here you go. Sorry, before I give you the floor, it is my duty to say that the debate is closed. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congresswoman, gentlemen! It is indeed true, as the Commission and its representatives have said in their comments, that a very comprehensive, wide-ranging draft has been discussed by the committee as well as Parliament. In this situation, there is no doubt that we are dealing with an area that we are dealing with to correct with uniform regulation, I think it was a daily demand. Who can draw a later conclusion from this may differ from our negotiating theme today. But on the subject of the opinion on the specific amendment, I have to say that it is absolutely right and right that we are already here in time. This is where we need to be, because at the end of 2018 it adopted the directive on the review and re-regulation of the previous regulatory framework for communications, the Communication Code, the European Parliament and the Member States have to transpose it into their national legal systems by 21 December 2020. The primary objective of the bill before the Parliament is therefore that Hungary should comply with this obligation of harmonisation. The Communication Code contains comprehensive amendments, as we have heard from previous opinions. The amendments concern almost all the main elements of the regulation, end-user rights, spectrum management, market analysis procedures and access rules, in order to strengthen competition between service providers, encourage investment and strengthen consumer rights, in line with the regulatory objective of the Code. I do not think there is a Member in this House who would argue that these are justified. In addition to the timely revision of the regulatory framework for communications, the year 2020 also gives this bill a special topicality, since in recent months electronic communication has not only been an element of everyday comfort, but has become an almost indispensable part of our lives. We are therefore discussing a bill that will fundamentally define the coming years, decades, in the communications sector and in the industries that are building on it, and that must also have a very serious and positive impact on citizens' everyday lives. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the new regulation is therefore to improve the functioning of the communications sector, from which we, i.e. consumers using services, can only benefit by giving us more choice and choosing between services of an increasingly high quality. One of the important novelties of the new regulation is that it defines affordable broadband internet as a universal service. This is a very important sentence, and I think that this could be a very important part of the life management of the next period. This means that it will now be laid down by law that all people living in the country must have access to affordable broadband at the right speed. With the transposition of the Code, the domestic level of protection of end-users will be further strengthened, and I do not think that this too can constitute a debate between us and the justification for this. The bill increases the transparency of contracts between information and contracting requirements, simplifies the general contract terms and extends the right to terminate the contract. During our work as Members, we have seen these demands in many and once-in-a-lifetime hours, when we have actually received consumers and users with these problems, so we have seen the right in everyday life. In order to further encourage the construction of broadband networks, the bill introduces, inter alia, new network access and interconnection rules and a co-investment model based on cooperation between several operators, investment and risk sharing. There are plenty of practical examples of this, as who could not bring up an experience when the road was really rough from one service provider to another. We are not necessarily discussing the intention of the service provider in this situation, but the legal environment, in which they sometimes felt powerless, and the consumer in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, During the general debate, the feedback of all the party speakers was positive and supportive, which shows that the benefits of social and economic impacts achieved by promoting communication and digitalisation are clearly seen by everyone. Thank you very much, obviously, for that attitude. It is also obvious that we need to keep up with the pace dictated by technological progress. We therefore need regulation which is not bureaucratic and not only does not prevent it, but also clearly helps to disseminate innovative technologies and services, which is needed to prevent us from losing our own good pace. Yes, I can provide you with a good pace of information, as the Commission has recently published this year's indicators for measuring the development of digital society and the economy, according to which Hungary has made significant progress in the distribution of fixed broadband internet access and was also at the forefront of wireless broadband preparedness. This can be named specifically, and in this indicator we stand at the top seventh place in the European Union. This result has therefore once again strengthened us in the need to continue the existing government measures and development programmes, which are successful. [[16.10]] Of course, this is particularly a sector where there is always room for improvement, there must always be new goals, and this bill will obviously also serve the development of this. Dear Parliament, The preparation of this bill, as I have already mentioned, may go back to a year earlier, which was attended by the government, the authority, and the industrial actors alike. It is also due to the fact that a bill has been drawn up which does not only mean a bureaucratic law transplant, but also takes into account the Hungarian needs of the domestic market. Thank you once again for the supporting contributions made in the debate. I believe that the ideas expressed have contributed to the creation of a law of this quality, either in the form of a committee or in the form of individual representatives. I therefore ask the Parliament to support the bill also in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Erik Bánki intervenes.]]
u2020-07-01-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. There are not many, but there are a loud crowd of Members present. [[Defiance.]] Honourable Parliament! Next up is the 1994 LXVI on the Wage Guarantee Fund. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission submitted by Mr Lajos Kósa by MEP Fidesz and Mr László Böröcz Fidesz T/10859. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to announce that Mr Bánki Erik has joined the group, so I would like to ask him how he wishes to speak now. [[Erik Bánki says no.]] It says no. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak now, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Sándor Bodó: No.]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from Members. Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone has anything to say. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. It is my duty to ask you how you wish to speak, Mr Secretary; obviously not to reflect, because there is nothing to do, but you can give your opinion. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity. It was indeed possible that today's discussion might not generate much debate, but in the previous weeks I have certainly witnessed that we have discussed this proposal in a professionally thorough manner. In the course of the debate on the proposal, it has certainly been proven that if external impacts on the Hungarian economy are to be achieved, there is a need for action as quickly as possible, as effectively as possible, and the area of employment, we must see and see it in the last few weeks, and in some emergencies, it is certainly at great risk. The stability of the financial situation of Hungarian families is supported by the government by all means, and the legal possibilities are also included in this, which is understood by all means, and the wages for the work carried out must be guaranteed, obviously this is the basic thesis. In this case, the aim of the bill is to compensate for the negative effects on the economy and to guarantee that the wages for their work will be paid. Dear House, During the general debate of the bill a few weeks ago, as I mentioned, we presented it in detail, discussed and explored the substance of this regulation. The amendment of the wage guarantee institution protects workers and workers in the event of insolvency of companies. Under the legislation, the employer is obliged to employ and pay the employee who is contracted with him a salary. The liquidation of the assets of the companies to be wound up should be the first, under the law, to pay wages and other wage benefits. In the context of the wage guarantee procedure, the companies in liquidation are currently in debt on their unpaid salary to the employee, on the loan fee not paid to the borrowed worker or on the service fee not paid to the school cooperative. This is the personal circle that the bill intends to expand. The proposal also provides a guarantee to pay the wages of persons employed in the service provided by pensioners' cooperatives. The draft is therefore important, Honourable Parliament, as it contains guarantee rules against external effects in the interests of a particularly vulnerable sector of employment. Thank you again for the constructive proposals made during the general debate. Thank you, Members, for your initiative. The ideas expressed, as well as the absence of an individual amendment to the proposal, clearly indicate that we are about to adopt an acceptable, forward-looking regulation for everyone. That is what I am asking the Parliament to do in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-128	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Members who are present, if someone would like to give an opinion. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-129	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The extension of the Wage Guarantee Fund to the number of co-operative employees from the point of view that, as has already been done in the case of student cooperatives, in the other atypical cooperative employment form, pensioners' cooperatives, we also send a message to those working in this special employment sector that they are at least as important as the others. During the debate, a number of comments and criticisms were made, which was based on a lot of misunderstandings, not on the institution itself or on the measure itself. What I see is that cooperative employment is... how can I put it? It's not so routine that there's no misunderstanding. Someone said that pensioners will be exploited here by cooperatives, which is completely absurd, because the cooperative has no owner, the members of the cooperative are the owners, so if someone exploits someone, they take advantage of themselves, so this is clearly a misunderstanding or a malicious announcement. In the same way, it is a complete mistake and a misdirection to see a narrow circle of stakeholders around these beneficiaries, since that is not the case, but the whole membership; the person who worked is the Wage Guarantee Fund if the principal is unable to pay, can receive compensation or compensation. There are no narrow circles of people involved. And oddly enough, some of my opposition fellows, who, by the way, act on their own initiative, have also been accused of doing so, I might say, from the interests positions of cooperatives, such as the head of the Association of Interests of Student Cooperatives, the Head of Student Association, or, as such, the Public Prosecutor, the leader of the Association for the Protection of Interests of pensioners, so these people do not act from business, but because they are elected to do so. There will be many such misunderstandings, because it is clear that the proposal is acceptable in its content, which is also shown by the fact that it has not received an amendment. I thank everyone who has spoken constructively to him in this debate, and, of course, I look forward to Parliament's support for this proposal. Thank you in advance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-130	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission submitted by MEP Lajos Kósa by MEP Fidesz and László Böröcz Fidesz T/10864. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to announce that further accessions have been made to these Members, and that Member Erik Bánki has also joined. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Congressman Péter Ovádi, the representative of the committee may speak. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2020-07-01-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the purpose of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Decision. T/10864. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, 2 against and 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Water Utility Act defines the concept of water utility as an infrastructure tool for service activities. Under the law, the water utilities covered by the definition can only be owned by the State or local government, which is intended to guarantee security of supply. On the other hand, practical experience shows that there are a number of water facilities connected to the water utility system for sewage treatment, collection and drinking water, which are not state-owned or municipal-owned, which clearly plays the role that can be seen from the statutory definition for water utilities, and whose trail is largely on state-owned or municipal property. According to the proposal, if the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office qualifies a non-state or municipal water facility as a water utility, the right and obligation of the person responsible for the supply will be opened to acquire the ownership of a water utility owned by a non-state or municipal authority in the context of the creation of infrastructure conditions for the water utility service. The acquisition of ownership may be carried out in accordance with the general rules of civil law or the rules for the public redemption of the right of the water utility owner as set out in this amendment. In view of what has been said, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Erik Bánki claps for a long time.]]
u2020-07-01-132	Thank you so much for your long applause. [[Defiance.]] I'd like to ask the people who are present, if someone would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kósa, please.
u2020-07-01-133	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, This amendment seeks to address an old, clandestine problem where a water service facility is in some way private, not municipal, not state-owned, but there is also a user other than the owner for this service, mostly population, but not uncommonly different companies, and the price level of the service, the conditions for using the service, the extent to which the existing facility must be maintained, the dispute between the service provider and the owner, and this very often tries to address an unsolvable set of problems. The motion introduces the option of redeeming these movable property, since here, basically, facilities suitable for water services are not real estate, they are movable property, and the expropriation rules apply to real estate and not to movable property. So it also creates this institution, and with this roughly 400-500 is a situation that has seemed unsolvable for public water utility services so that it can be resolved and resolved. There have been many points in the debate, but mainly comments that have been asked to take account of things on this proposal that I do not think can be taken into account. It is quite obvious that such a proposal is not suitable for answering Hungary's water strategy because it is about something else. It is quite obvious that such a proposal is not suitable for the general resolution or dissecting of the state of depreciation of water utility installations, for the context of fixed utility utilities or the reduction of overhead costs, because this is once again completely inappropriate. So these were accounted for in the debate, and that was the main issue, but this was an inadequate debate; not bypassing, of course, the question that, yes, Parliament must deal with the water strategy within a closed deadline. And it is also quite obvious that the issues relating to pricing, which are the quality of service, the quantity of service, the obligation to supply, are worth discussing with Parliament. But he simply did not accept this proposal, nor did he have such a need, nor was it suitable for it. So, if I may, Mr President, I would focus on what is the subject of the proposal, not on such general issues; in that, however, I saw that there was a consensus in the debate between the TAB and the Economic Committee. The government supported the proposal, so I also ask for Parliament's support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State, Secretary Anita Boros, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-07-01-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Thanks to its hydrogeological properties, Hungary has an outstanding international comparison of underground stocks suitable for drinking water production. The protection and sustainable use of these stocks is of fundamental national interest. The right to healthy drinking water, as an integral part of the right to health, is one of the fundamental constitutional rights, which is what our legislation on water utility regulation seeks to support with guarantee rules. You'll have to see that it's Vkstv. Since its entry into force in 2012, there have been a number of practical experiences and experience in applying the law that show that there are a number of water facilities as well as we have heard from Congressman Lajos Kósa, which is actually used to drain, collect, supply drinking water, and is also connected to a water utility system, but is not owned by a state or a local government. So if we look at these facilities from a functional point of view, we see that they are essentially water utilities, but the current legislation does not allow these water utilities to be regarded as water utilities, in a legal sense, on a normative basis. For this reason, this proposal actually seeks to remove these legal barriers, to ensure a smoother and more efficient operation, to improve security of supply and the sustainability of water utility services, in particular with regard to the fact that it intends to lay down only legal guarantees on public or municipal property. We therefore respectfully ask the Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would just like to say very briefly, with a little reflection on what Mr President has said, because we fully agree that this proposal is important, so it offers a solution to an existing problem in the sector. By the way, we will support it with our vote. I thought it was very important that Mr Kósa expressed in the general debate that he himself saw the serious problems affecting the sector. My question would be that at that time I promised to re-submit to the Parliament a proposal for this, to look at the diverse problems in the sector, and to start a debate with which the Member agreed. I also put forward a specific bill on the withdrawal of the special sectoral tax, utility tax. This is requested by professional organizations. So I would also like to ask Mr President that there is obviously a political chance that the Fidesz faction might support this important debate in the autumn session, so that this important debate can begin. I would also like to ask the representative of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, a million questions I have asked, and I usually get answers from Secretary of State Schanda that the government is working on a very strategic approach, but who is responsible specifically for this particular strategy, and when this task comes to pass. So when will the Parliament be faced with a strategy for identifying and resolving sectoral problems that would face these issues. The public utility tax is also an extremely exciting and painful issue, since it is particularly unrealistic for rural areas. We know that there are fewer consumers in rural areas, where the density of the population is lower, and therefore the burden is disproportionately higher. We can also observe that unfortunately, in the budget, the government has thrown a minimum lifeline to large regional water companies, but typically not to local government-owned companies operating in rural areas, and I think that this situation needs to be done. [[16.30]] So I would very much like to receive a signal from the government as to when they wish to present us with some sort of solution. And I would like to learn from Congressman Kósa the political opinion of the largest group, how we can expect that this important debate can finally begin here before the Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-138	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kósa!
u2020-07-01-139	Mr. President. Dear House, I've been approached by the head of the faction. I don't know the opinion of the Fidesz faction on this matter, nor can I anticipate it, I can express my own opinion. As far as I know, the government is working on a water strategy, and the plan is to present it at the fall session sometime. Here are some very important issues that need to be decided, these are strategic issues, and they can all be discussed in a valid way from different positions, see: arsenic-freeing has or has no meaning; rules for using grey water have or do not have meaning; forced separation of systems in the case of sewer services is either necessary or necessary everywhere; it is possible that somewhere controlled by appropriate technology they build potters on leaks or not; in the whole country we take waste water and only a closed tank solution is possible. So we have to ask and discuss these questions; I don't know the answer, I have an opinion. I am almost certain that Parliament will deal with this in relation to the water strategy, and I personally urge this, but what will be the position of the various groups will be revealed in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-01-140	Congressman László Keresztő Lóránt!
u2020-07-01-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Not to abuse the patience and time of this House, I am very pleased that this issue will come to us within a reasonable time to discuss this issue. However, it is clearly urgent that very, very many water companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. I think we can agree that it is an extremely important task for the government, the Parliament, to provide the most important service, healthy drinking water, as well as from the secretary of state that has been said, that this is a fundamental right and that water bases must be protected. So this is an extremely urgent issue. So thank you very much for the answer, and we are in the way of this debate. I think that we have available the professional materials that allow us to discuss this debate, not as a political issue, but as a policy issue, as a common national issue and as a challenge, and we are confident that we can finally move towards solutions. Thank you.
u2020-07-01-142	Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. [[On Dr. Boros Anita's mark:]] It says no. I'll ask the pointers if someone wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] They're signaling no. So the decisions will take place on Friday. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the ban on the placing on the market of certain single-use plastics and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/10862. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 25 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the prohibition of the placing on the market of certain disposable plastics T/10862. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 29 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Protecting the environment is important for everyone, because it is about the created world, protecting our environmental heritage and our common future. The Government's climate and nature conservation action plan forms part of the limitation of the placing on the market of certain single-use plastics with more ambitious objectives than those of Directive 2019/904 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products, which appears in their further product range. The SUP Directive focuses on the most common disposable plastic products on the European Union's coasts, as well as on fishing gears containing plastics and products made of oxidativeally biodegradable plastic. The Government has negotiated and adopted a proposal on restrictions on the placing on the market of certain plastic products, on measures to support innovative technology change for manufacturers and on plastic clusters, which will implement a ban on the placing on the market of single-use plastics as part of the climate and nature conservation action plan and a restriction on the placing on the market provided for in Article 5 of the SUP Directive. In addition to the guidelines, single-use plastic cups and plastic carrier bags with a wall thickness between 15 microns and 50 microns will be banned in Hungary from 1 July 2021. The bill amends the 1995 LIII on the general rules for the protection of the environment. Law 1 and Act LXXXV of 2011 on the Environmental Product Award. Law. T/10862 submitted to Parliament The legislative proposal No.3 empowers the government to establish detailed rules and sets out the most important legal framework, and therefore please support the proposed legislation. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-07-01-144	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[On Dr. Boros Anita's mark:]] Secretary Anita Boros, please.
u2020-07-01-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As has been said in the general debate and said by the Member, at the beginning of this year the Government adopted the climate and nature conservation action plan, in which it has put forward a number of proposals for action on climate neutrality, green economy and waste management. Accordingly, we are also preparing for a reform in the field of waste management, which is determined by a number of factors. On the one hand, there are economic issues that require a rethink of waste management. On the one hand, there is a reduction in the amount of waste, but the composition of the waste has typically changed over the past period. The population's per capita municipal waste is currently significantly below the EU average: in 2018, it was 488 kg/person, with only 78 percent of this in Hungary. Secondly, we need to talk about the need for a transition to a circular economy as a definition. Our goal is that the Hungarian economy can also take advantage of the potential opportunities in the waste management sector, so we want to see waste as a value, we want to turn everything back to the economy as much as possible. Thirdly, the method of waste management has changed, and now the practice of landfilling is starting to emerge. In many countries, especially the countries of northern Europe, the level of landfill is less than 1 percent, and its material is exploited. This is also the case in Hungary, since 2006 the proportion of waste used in the material has increased continuously: in 2018, based on the data of the HCSO, 58 percent of the total waste was recovered, and according to the 2018 data, the waste recovered was 27,6 percent. As a fourth issue of determination, we must also mention the tightening of the rules on EU directives and regulations in recent years, given that we have a number of targets that all Member States, including Hungary, must meet. I would just like to highlight a few of these: one of the targets for preparing and recycling municipal waste for reuse is 55 percent by 2025 and 60 percent by 2030, and we need to reduce municipal waste disposal to less than 10 percent by 2035. In addition, a number of other directives provide for restrictive measures, such as the Packaging Directive, which says that recycling of packaging products should be achieved by 65% by 2025 and 70% by 2030. Finally, very important determination, as mentioned above, is the Single Use Plastics Directive, whose primary purpose is to eliminate illegal waste and to remove waste products and plastic products from the market, which are the most harmful to our environment. This has already been mentioned by the Member, so I would not repeat it now, but in fact this directive groups plastic products into different types. Some of these are proposed to be withdrawn from the market, others should be reduced in quantitative terms and a third subject to specific product requirements. [[16.40]] There are provisions which lay down certain marking conditions, which are subject to different deadlines in this Directive. It is certain that the provisions already referred to concerning total withdrawal from the market, i.e. prohibition, must comply with the provisions of the Member States by 3 July 2021. In fact, this is part of what our current draft law seeks to comply with. Secondly, as I said, our waste management sector is facing a reform. As a first step, we need to get to a more drastic reduction in the amount of waste. As the directive, the SUP Directive, also states, there are a number of waste products that cannot actually break down, which is why it is not appropriate to keep them on the market, so the government proposes to ban these products on 1 July 2021. Our experience shows that there is a substitute product available on the retail market instead of each product, so we believe that the intention to replace these products will not cause any disruption. Secondly, we are also proposing restrictive measures for so-called drink containers and drink containers, given that they do not fall under the prohibition category in the scope of the SUP Directive, but are subject to other restrictive measures. So, in fact, this means that the Hungarian Government is proposing a relatively stricter proposal than the SUP Directive, so we are proposing to ban plastic drink containers. Thirdly, we are already starting to take the necessary measures to reduce the number of plastic carrier bags and ban the plastic carrier bags with a wall thickness between 15 microns and 50 microns, with the exception of biodegradable plastic carrier bags. In fact, until 31 December 2025, our EU targets here provide that we can use 40 lightweight plastic carrier bags per person so to speak, so that we should reach these 40 by 2025. We think that with this step, we are taking a huge step in this direction. The directive itself provides that so-called very light plastic carrier bags can be excluded from national targets. Using this opportunity, the government said that it intends to introduce a product fee for plastic carrier bags made of traditional plastic below 15 microns wall thickness. This product fee is to be raised from HUF 57 per kilogram to HUF 1900, while for plastic carrier bags made of biodegradable plastic it is proposed to introduce a product fee of HUF 500 per kilogram. So we believe that in the case of plastic carrier bags in circulation, the product fee will also reduce commercial traffic usage. In order to ensure that the functions of the prohibited products have the same replacement products in bulk and there is no substantial price difference between them, the government intends to support domestic plastics companies and the necessary technological change by means of a subsidy policy. As a result, we want to create a so-called plastic industry cluster of Hungarian plastics research and innovation, which will also be established this week. The bill received a proposal for amendment, which, however, was not coherent with the definitions of the directive, which is why the government and the Committee on Sustainable Development also considered that they did not support this proposal. The Commission's proposal for amendment closing the detailed debate by the Committee on Sustainable Development and the summarised amendment made only linguistic, legislative and clarification proposals. Overall, the bill before Parliament serves the country's environmental interests and contributes to the fulfilment of our EU obligations. I would therefore kindly ask the Parliament to support the bill prohibiting the placing on the market of disposable plastics on the basis of the reasons given. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-01-146	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, who will present the opinion of the Committee for Sustainable Development, and then... [[A moment's pause. Erzsébet Schmuck: I'm holding the minority. It doesn't matter.]] Yeah, I can see that.
u2020-07-01-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-07-01-148	Here you go.
u2020-07-01-149	I will present the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development.
u2020-07-01-150	Describe it to me.
u2020-07-01-151	Dear House, For decades, we have known that the current production and consumption patterns are unsustainable, and that is why single-use plastic could now be a symbol of the consumer society, with an incredibly growing and devastating production of natural resources, processing, energy consumption and demand for transport energy through world trade.A total of 8.3 billion tonnes of plastic were produced between 1950 and 2015. In this amazing amount of garbage, plastic bags also play a significant role, of which around 5 billion and 1 trillion pieces a day worldwide More precisely, even researchers could not estimate the volume between the two. We have come to the conclusion that the average consumer has little chance of getting food from packaging that is unpackaged or at least capable of breaking down in the environment. Now everyone knows that the culture of disposableness must end, that the world of plastic bags must end. We were pleased to note at the beginning of May that, after several years of hesitation, the government will finally adopt a forward-looking law that will prevent the use of disposable plastics. However, this version, which is before us, is a significant step backwards from the previous draft. The preparation of the law began two years ago. We believe that the government would have had time to coordinate properly with economic operators, to coordinate the expected effects of the ban, the transition and the proper replacement of packaging. Moreover, when the law was first introduced at the beginning of May, it was an epidemic and not a crisis after the submission. That is why we believe that there has been an inconsiderate haste, their back-up deal, the lack of involvement of the actors involved, including consumers, unfortunately we see this as a sign of a lack of bad governance and courage. Thus, this bill, which we have here, has succeeded as a liquefy proposal that quasi-degradable bags can be used at a price of a penny. We think that this is clearly a dead end: their collection and treatment of selective waste is impossible, and what is needed is because we know that these are broken down by special procedure. The minimum requirement would be for the government to levy a product fee of HUF 1900 per kilogram on them as well. Of course, it is also a question of what, from what budget line the second version will receive government support already increased to 10 billion for the changeover. Yeah, the government would finally have had a brave move towards sustainability, but that's what got him back. That would be great, and we're asking you to return to your original intentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-07-01-152	Thank you very much. Speakers may now take part, Honourable Parliament. I'll ask him if anyone wants to tell me. [[For signal:]] Yes, on the basis of diversity, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, may follow. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-153	Thank you very much. In my previous comment, I represented the Committee on Sustainable Development...
u2020-07-01-154	He's right.
u2020-07-01-155	...and now I would like to present the position of the LMP faction. I would like to point out that the LMP took it with confidence when, after years of hesitation, the government presented this law at the beginning of May, which is a barrier to the use of disposable plastics. But, as we have said several times, this pleasure did not last that long, because the government withdrew it, and unfortunately, this version is a step backwards from the original draft, even if it is somewhat more than the European Union expects. The fact is that these bags do not decompose under natural conditions, and it should be stressed that their selective collection and treatment cannot be achieved. This was already known when the government started to draw up the law, as the European Union's strategy for the role of plastics in the circular economy, adopted in 2018, states and quotes it in this way. [[16.50]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Finally, it has been demonstrated that some alternative solutions, such as so-called oxidative, biodegradable plastics, which are claimed to be biodegradable, do not have any proven environmental benefits compared to conventional plastics, but that rapid degradation into microplastics is a cause for concern. Therefore, the Commission is working to limit the use of oxidative, biodegradable plastics in the EU. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is why, as I have referred to the European Union, this proposal is, in this respect, a dead end with decomposing plastic carrier bags; in particular, taking into account the two specific objectives of the strategy, namely that all plastic packaging on the EU market should be recyclable or cost-effectively recyclable by 2030. Secondly, more than half of the plastic waste generated in Europe should be recycled by 2030. An important part of this is the separate collection of plastic waste and the high level of recycling of plastic packaging, like other packaging materials. Of course, you have to ask where we are about this. The question also needs to be asked what steps will be taken to meet the 2030 targets if the government backs down now. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We believe that we should not be looking for excuses and explaining difficulties, but that we should have been able to treat this situation as an opportunity, because the solution of the problem could also be an economic break-out for those involved in it, but the government did not deal with it. The EU plastic sector provides jobs for 1.5 million people in the European Union and generates €340 billion in revenue in 2015. Most EU companies are already working on the changeover. And what we see from this is that the affected Hungarian sectors will be after the mainstream. Now everyone knows, and the Hungarian people know that there is no more wasteful time, we must put an end to the culture of disposables, and the ban on the use of disposable plastics is in the best interests of all of us. The LMP has been calling for decisive action years ago, and we have also tabled an independent legislative amendment proposal, but it is in vain. I would like to point out once again that the government could have taken a bold step towards sustainability, but you missed that. And in order to leave a living environment for future generations, we should have taken this drastic step now. We are confident that we need real green economic reconstruction and not semi-solutions. If the Parliament now adopts this law in this form, the LMP in the autumn parliamentary period will certainly initiate a review of the law and we will urge the Government and Parliament to return to the original proposal. But there are still a few more questions that are related to plastics here, and that would be worth reviewing or reviewing. One is that billions of products and deposits are being paid into the budget each year, and we find that only a small part of this is being used to solve environmental problems. In this case, I can provide an example of the dissemination of green economy solutions or the development of Hungarian environmental culture. And we'll also be waiting for an answer as to when the deposit fee for PET bottles will be introduced. And then one last question I would like to raise in connection with the bill, which is a very topical question of where environmental diplomacy stays, and what steps the State has taken to prevent a small price wave from bringing thousands of tons of garbage, mostly plastic waste, to the Tisza or Szamos. We are also pressing for decisive action in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-01-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and we will continue our work. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. They may all follow the timeframes on the billboard. A two-minute speech is not possible during the debate. I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We are expected to support this proposal, despite the fact that we wanted much more to support the proposal that was originally brought in. The fact is that this was a strong proposal compared to the European Union's views, but the other one was much more forward-looking, and if we had been able to set an example since our European membership, it might have been, say, a case like this. In any case, in relation to the current situation and the trend of recent years, I think that even this is a small step forward in this area, although I am very sorry that the bill does not cover the most harmful plastics, and that they will not be planned until much later. On the other hand, we need to think about what we are planning for the long term, because these plastics will have to be replaced with something. So it's a very good thing that we lead these out, but what will be the substitute products, for example, for single-use carrier bags? Well, they're probably paper bags, but paper bags are made of something, and the Hungarian government's tree planting program is in vain, if it is, let's say, going to Tesco and Auchan in the form of little carrier bags. So we would like to draw the attention of the portfolio to how selective waste collection can be strengthened in Hungary, because this area is very much in its infancy, not only in the EU context, but also unfortunately also in the Eastern European context, and we would like the government to take this direction, with which we will be able to put Hungarian businesses first in this area, rather than taking a direction such as a draft on how they intend to distribute concession rights here in the field of waste management. I really hope you don't plan on stealing the trash. Thank you.
u2020-07-01-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, Anita Boros, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would respond very briefly to the comments raised. The first thing that has already been said in the general debate is that our amended proposal is now before Parliament. Indeed, we have been negotiating with industry since February 2020 through the various plastic industry stakeholder organisations, and I believe that at the end of an epidemiological situation, the proposal of any industry stakeholder forum can be fully appreciated for the government to consider the application of lighter rules that could otherwise be applied by EU legislation. That's all that's going on here, so you don't necessarily have to think about anything else. As I mentioned, in the case of very light plastic carrier bags, the directive itself provides for the possibility of introducing other types of devices. If someone reads through the directive, you can see that there are alternatives chosen by the government. Of course, we have not only one aspect, but we also have to take into account that jobs are being protected, that people do not lose their jobs, especially with regard to the current epidemic situation. Secondly, I would also like to mention what Mrs President mentioned: the Commission did indeed address the issue of plastic carrier bags in 2018, including in its report on the environmental impact of the use of oxidative plastic carrier bags. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this report speaks of three types of degradation capability, namely biodegradation, composting and the process of oxidative degradation. [[17.00]] What she referred to was the negative effects of oxidative degradation. But that's not what we're talking about in the draft. We're talking about biodegradation. Thank you very much for the proposal for a PET bottle redemption system, and we are working on it. And thank the LMP for realising that indeed, the Government's proposal makes a more stringent proposal compared to the EU's directives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-07-01-160	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on sport and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The submission submitted by our fellow Members Erik Bánki, Sándor Hadházy and Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz T/10858. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 25 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10858 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 1 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is about a short technical amendment. On the basis of the proposal, it will be possible to transfer the right of departure if the sport undertaking establishes an economic company with a view to participating in the same or higher championship class, a competition system established and organised by the same sports association. In order to ensure the exclusive powers of the sport association to operate the system of competition, it is necessary for the sports association to be able to examine the conditions of the transfer in the event of the transfer under the proposed legislation in order to prevent any transfer of the right of departure. Dear House, The proposal submitted should be supported in view of the fact that it would open up new opportunities and new horizons for team sports associations and associations competing in the federal competition frameworks of team sports over the past period. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-07-01-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Erik Bánki whether he would like to speak now on behalf of the authors, or if he will answer only in the closing section. [[Erik Bánki: Only in the closing.]] Thank you very much. I will ask Mrs Tünde Szabó, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. Szabó Tünde: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It has already been three weeks since we conducted the T/10858 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport. The general debate on the proposal for a regulation on the transfer of the right of entry, which was said to be no more than the alignment of the legislation on the current state of sport, which, of course, no sport organisation is better off than the other. The aim of the bill is to allow a sports organisation to transfer its right to enter and enter the sports association's competition system and championship in a new case. This is why it is necessary to amend the previous regulation with a new point and to allow, where appropriate, a team to start from the company not only in the lower classes but also in the same or higher classes, and if it does not have public debt, this will also be possible. We know that the right of departure is the personal right of the sports organisation, the transfer of which is, in principle, null and void under the Sports Act. However, it is necessary to lay down exceptions, which are essentially due to the different nature of amateur and professional championship schemes, since the exceptions ensure the development of sports organisations involved in various levels of championships, their continuous assessment of their professional work, their adaptation to real situations, which also means that the development of sports organisations, the expansion of activities, participation in other championships and the different requirements relating thereto justify the possibility of transferring the right of departure under the bill. Finally, let me also state the government's position on the legislative committee's summarised amendment proposal. On the one hand, the amending proposal contains technical clarification and, on the other hand, allows sports associations to examine the circumstances and possibilities of the transfer of the right of departure in their respective fields of competence. In this sense, the Government supports the inclusion of this guarantee element in the text of the bill, thereby excluding the transfer of the right of departure to a right of use. We know that the Hungarian government supports any initiative that can be interpreted in the area of freedom of organisation of sports organisations and optimises the participation of sports organisations in competition systems and championships. Therefore, the Government agrees with the objectives set out in the bill, so I would ask my fellow Members to support the amendment of the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-07-01-164	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I would like to inform you that if you wish to speak in the closing hours, you will have an 11 minutes and 40 seconds time frame at your disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which will be followed on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if there's anything else you'd like to tell me in the closet. [[Dr. Tünde Szabó: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. He told me everything the government asked for to add to the law. I now give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Bánki, who will, of course, respond to what has been said in the entire debate. There is a 15-minute time frame at the disposal of the congressman. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State has already mentioned in her remarks, it is essentially a short, technical amendment to the bill. However, as a result of this amendment, it is possible, in the first place, for those supply workshops and supply academies where, thanks to excellent professional work, talent has been raised and emerged from the system, who can compete among the professionals in the adult championships, thereby allowing them to start a team either at their level or at a higher level in the professional class. The same is true of associations and sports companies that had previously been able to compete only at an amateur level, but in the meantime, whether they are strengthened or, let's say, with the involvement of an external investor in municipal ownership, they can make an excellent sport enterprise fit for being in a professional championship at the higher level. This is what legislation provides for. As an accusation made by the opposition in the debate, I do not know how to put it, but the criticism is that we will reopen the possibility of doing business with the rights of departure. Madam Secretary of State has also firmly stated in the Government's position that these amendments do not give us the opportunity to do so. I am particularly pleased with the amendment made by the Legislative Committee, which gives the chairmen of the sports associations the opportunity to make a decision that they will contribute, so they will, obviously in every case, examine whether the intention to which the law gives the possibility is justified from a sporting point of view. If they see reason, they will contribute. [[17.10]] Another important question that was also raised in the debate, as a very correct point, if I remember correctly, was perhaps the right-hand Member, Ádám Steinmetz, who said that although the bill states that it cannot be a public debt to a sports business from which a new enterprise can start in a higher or equal class, it should also be determined that it does not owe to athletes. Well, this amendment also handles this. So I think that in this amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, the open questions raised in Parliament's debate have now been dealt with. I think that everyone can support the amended bill with a calm heart. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Peter Ovadi applauds.]]
u2020-07-01-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on Friday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by Mr Erik Bánki Fideszes, Member T/10993. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to our colleague Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 25 June 2020 T/10993. LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity. a bill amending the law. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, like other countries around the world, the use of solar energy for direct energy production is increasing. However, solar energy still accounts for only a small proportion of Hungarian renewable electricity production, although its development is unbroken. In essence, electricity is produced exclusively from solar power plants operating on the principle of PV. In addition to electricity generation, heat production with solar collectors is also present in the country. The increase in solar energy has accelerated after 2014 for both small domestic power plants and larger solar parks. The electricity produced by solar panels increased to an outstanding extent in Hungary, almost 124 percent over the previous year, according to the preliminary data of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in 2019. The domestic and international restrictive measures introduced by the coronal virus epidemic have hampered the smooth functioning of supply chains, such as the purchase of large quantities of foreign raw materials, panels, inverters and support structures necessary for the deployment of solar power plants in the renewable energy industry. The production of panels for solar power plants is mostly carried out in China. The factories also stopped there for a longer or shorter period of time, causing supply problems for suppliers that could not fulfil their obligations. Investments can suffer months of delays due to supplier problems all over the world. But not only can they be delayed because of the panels, but also because of the other materials needed for the construction. It is important to note that if the projects involved in the proposed legislation were not allowed to extend the deadline, a significant proportion of the companies carrying out the investment are expected to cease to exist, causing job losses and endangering the livelihood of families. The government, on the other hand, aims to preserve jobs and create at least as many jobs as have ceased as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. With the adoption of the bill, the projects of the Hungarian renewable energy industry that play an important role in the construction of solar power plants will be assisted. Dear House, In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Erik Bánki applauds.]]
u2020-07-01-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr Erik Bánki, as rapporteur, whether he would like to speak now at the beginning of the debate. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] No, it's a sign. It'll just be in the closet. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Peter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, that he now wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. I would like to inform you that you have a timeframe of 15 minutes and that you will have the remaining time frame in the closing word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to thank Mr Erik Bánki, Member of Parliament, for his efforts to make investments in solar power plants feasible and for submitting the bill to Parliament. Indeed, the coronal virus epidemic has put dozens of investments at risk, as it has prevented the completion of projects that have been prepared and are already underway and the start of energy production. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the suppliers of the corona virus can be implemented by investors in the form of solar power projects which are impossible due to disruptions. This help is particularly important, since the projects concerned are typically solar power plants under half megawatts, and the investors' circle comes from the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise layer. Indeed, we agree with the Government that, according to the bill, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is authorised to establish in its decree the extended period and conditions for the start-up of the commercial plant in the case of compulsory acceptance rights and premium type subsidies for new production units not covered by the tendering procedure. This will give the developers the opportunity to fulfil the commitments they have entered into. This also helps Hungary achieve its climate targets. After the adoption and entry into force of the bill, we know that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will immediately begin the creation of the relevant MEH regulation. Dear Parliament, Investment to promote the development of the green economy, including solar energy, is an important element of our country's energy strategy goals. Given that our country has great potential for solar energy, the government places great emphasis on exploiting this potential. The adoption of the bill will also help us to multiply the installed capacity of solar power plants over the next ten years, which, according to our plans, will exceed 6000 megawatts by 2030, and by 2040 it will be close to the installed capacity of 12,000 megawatts. The renewable energy support system, which has been used to support electricity produced from renewable energy sources since 1 January 2017, is one of the objectives of these objectives. In order to achieve the objectives of the climate and nature conservation action plan, Minister of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology asked the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to announce the next METAR tender. The new call is expected to be launched in July 2020, i.e. within a few weeks, with an annual allocation of HUF 800 million for projects for renewable energy-based electricity generation. MEDAR's resources cost-effectively encourage environmentally friendly renewable electricity production. Following a summary of the experience of the first tender completed in spring 2020, the amount of energy announced in the July tender will increase. A total of 390 gigawatts per year will be supported by the new call. Until August 2022, we plan to launch five new METAR tenders on the part of the government. This means that the calls will be issued every six months by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, occasionally to support renewable energy between 300 and 500 gigawatts per year as planned. [[17.20]] Dear House, Thank you for your constructive contributions during the general debate. The ideas expressed, as well as the absence of an individual amendment to the bill, indicate that they are about to adopt a regulation that is important for everyone. In view of all this, I would ask that the bill be supported in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-01-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will be at your disposal in nine minutes and 48 seconds if you wish to make a closing statement. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place according to the timeframes shown on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Tibor Nunkovics from the Jobbik Group has spoken. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As I said in the general debate, Jobbik will, of course, support this proposal, all the more so, because, as has been said here, it is the fate of 210 Hungarian businesses and the people employed there, and at these times, we cannot allow jobs to actually disappear for bureaucratic reasons, because why these deadlines could not be pushed out. In addition, we are talking about a sector in terms of the exploitation of solar cells and renewable energy sources, which can indeed be of great importance for Hungary in the future, as we can see that in the last five to ten years, the number of sunny, persistent and sunny hours has increased by two weeks in Hungary, which is a huge challenge for agriculture and our energy use, and it is also an opportunity that we have to exploit. I think we need to make every effort to ensure that renewable energies, including solar energy, are as widespread in Hungary as possible, but, as in the general debate, I would like to say now, however, that I would like to warn the government that this might come under the control of some circles. I said that we believe that if we can create a decentralised system and that as many individual users as possible, individual consumers, who are not dependent on the vulnerability of a large system, are included in this system. It also raises many questions that entrepreneurs in the KÁT system have appeared, not even one of them being Hungarian entrepreneurs, but a Turkish businessman, Adnan Polat, a good friend of the Prime Minister, whose plan is specifically that the market players present in the KÁT system would like to create a thousand megawatt solar park and solar network by buying up smaller market players. We would like this to be the opposite, so that as many and as small Hungarian businesses as possible should be included in this system, because if there is already such a market advantage that ensures that the energy produced can be sold to the State above market prices, then Hungarian companies will benefit from it. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak in the closing. [[Dr. Peter Kaderjak: No, thank you very much.]] You don't want to say anything, thank you very much. Then Congressman Bánki has the floor as rapporteur. Here you are, Congressman, with a 15-minute window at your disposal. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would also like to thank Jobbik, Mr Tibor Nunkovics, for his support in the general debate and now in the final debate. I think that in the case of the opposition, it is a very good behaviour to support a national case, a case in which small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary are indeed affected by an unfortunate situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic. As the Secretary of State said, a number of factors have been created by the corona virus epidemic, which has also delayed investments that have already been prepared or under preparation and have already been launched, since neither the various materials nor the technology have been available properly, so there have been administrative problems that more than 200 domestic companies could not have connected to the network. This is dangerous not only because it endangers their operation, but also because it endangers the government's ambitious plans to increase the share of renewable energy and is quantified by the Secretary of State, i.e. the need to build more than 6 gigawatts by 2030 and nearly 12 gigawatts by 2040. And that is, if we want what I fully agree with my fellow Member Nunkovics once again, to show up in this market primarily domestic-owned businesses, or to create funds in which Hungarian private individuals can invest shares, I think that we can all have a common goal. Returning to the amendment, Mr President, which has been tabled by the Economic Committee, I, of course, support myself as rapporteur. Basically, it contains codification, technical and grammatical amendments, a technical description supported by the government and the ITM. I therefore believe that this will only further clarify the text of the bill and will help us to achieve the objective that we called for when we presented it. So I am very confident that, in the end, not only the Jobbik faction, but also the opposition, will support this bill in a uniform way. I am asking my fellow Members to stand behind it, because this will help small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-01-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. Here comes the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/10095. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr Péter Kaderjak, with respect, that he wishes to speak at the beginning of the debate. I would like to inform you that within the framework of this genre there will be a 15-minute window for both the speech before the debate and the closing word in total. [[Dr. Kaderjak on Peter's signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Kaderjak has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-01-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the amendment to the Nuclear Power Act is to clarify the concept of temporary storage as defined by law, as a result of consultation with the European Commission, in compliance with our country's obligation to harmonise legislation. The amendment clarifies the existing national legislation according to which spent fuel and radioactive waste stored in the temporary storage must subsequently be placed in a permanent storage facility. The administrative designation provided for in the Nuclear Power Act is also amended. According to the bill, the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection of the Ministry of Interior also acts as a fire-protection specialist in the construction and demolition of the nuclear installation and its use. In these official matters, fire protection requirements should also be examined and the necessary expertise available to the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. The National Atomic Energy Agency, as a nuclear power monitoring body, may need to know the customs secret in order to carry out some of its tasks of licensing, control, registration and supervision. The law on nuclear law and the law on the enforcement of EU customs law are also amended in order to establish legal authorisation. Information about customs secrets may be initiated by the National Atomic Energy Office if it is justified by the performance of its public tasks. [[17 .30]] Dear House, The bill before you has already been examined by the European Commission in the framework of the preliminary notification procedure under Article 33 of the Euratom Treaty. I would like to inform the House that the European Commission has not raised any objections to the provisions of the bill during the preliminary notification procedure. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your constructive and critical contributions during the general debate. The ideas expressed and the absence of an individual amendment to the bill indicate that there is no objection to the proposed legislation. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-01-176	I'd like to inform you that you have a time frame of 12 minutes and 20 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. The timeframes appeared on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-177	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question about a matter which is still in the general debate and which is closely related to the subject of the law. High-activity nuclear waste will also have to be placed in a permanent underground storage, according to the strategy programme already adopted by Parliament. We also know that the potential site of this is being researched in Hungary today, in the Bodai Claykő Formation, 6-8 kilometers from the western border of Pécs. We have had a lot of discussions on this issue. In 2015, an important political step was taken by the Prime Minister's personal recognition of the right of people living in the region, Pécs and the region to intervene in the implementation of such a nuclear object, a nuclear facility. In contrast, not long after, unlike the Prime Minister's statement, the nuclear law was amended to define a completely surreal area of impact, such as a few hundred metres, in relation to such a nuclear cemetery, such a nuclear waste storage facility, that the actors were involved in this, and thus legally excluded Pécs and the small town and settlements of the area from giving an opinion. Last spring, this project received a so-called site search permit, and this project went into a new phase. At a public hearing in the affected area, it was said, in particular, by the heads of the National Atomic Energy Office, that they would perceive the problem, the social pressure that has been felt for a very, very long time in relation to the design of the nuclear cemetery, and that this would be indicated so vaguely by the Director-General: they would signal to the decision-makers who could take political action or make decisions on this issue. Compared to the fact that the problem was recognised and recognised in the minutes by the National Atomic Energy Office, and I do not know what steps have been taken after that, and I do not even know, and it is a little frightening that it is not possible to know exactly who can make decisions in the case of such an important object, but nevertheless, the OAH has finally issued its consent, this site search permit has been issued, and we are going on to continue to implement this future Boda nuclear cemetery. Over the last long, long period of time, more than HUF 10 billion has been spent on this. My question is, when the government intends to face this problem, when it is trying to create a situation where the political decision must be taken, the situation must be examined that there is a permanent, high-activity radioactive waste storage facility that is at all appropriate to the socio-economic conditions. That's one of my questions. The other, however, is always stressed by the government that safety is the first and most important aspect in the use of nuclear energy. According to my knowledge, Paks II was administered yesterday. the full authorisation procedure for its feasibility, and this was preceded by a government decision, which had a profound impact on this authorisation procedure. Specifically, a decision has been made by which the National Atomic Energy Agency now has a 15-month period to permit this huge large object, the new nuclear power plant, but 3 plus 3 months later they can in principle prepare grounding earthworks, and the OAH believes that economic and technical risks may arise as well. What is the government's attitude to this, and from what calculation, for what reason, has this amendment been made in government power, an amendment to a government decree? In a speech before the agenda this week, I tried to ask Mr Süli, State Secretary, on this matter. He was actually avoiding the specific answer. So what I would like to know is that when the government has taken such a decision to amend this government decree and gives us the opportunity to start grounding groundwork before issuing the full permit, it has done so for what reason, because we very much see that it is in the interest of the investor, the Russians, and the Hungarian state, and it is not in the interest of the Hungarian State. That's what I'd like to get some kind of explanation for. Obviously, it is not important for me to have an explanation, but for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers, to have an answer to that question, why the government has made such a legislative amendment in this sensitive matter in the past. Thank you very much for giving me answers to these questions from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-01-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for closing and answering the question.
u2020-07-01-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I would ignore the closing part of the reply, because what was worth saying on the government side regarding the actual legislative amendment proposal has already been done, so I would like to briefly reflect on the two issues that have been said. The first question concerned the issue of permanent deep-geological storage and research work in the area of Boda. I would like to give you the information that, as you know, the Hungarian government is committed to ensuring that nuclear energy production works in Hungary with the greatest possible security in the interests of residential care, to survive and to be part of the Hungarian energy mix in the long term. In order to implement this policy, it is necessary to know where the right place is in Hungary for the establishment of a permanent underground storage facility. Of course, this is a very long process, at all, concerning the domestic solution and future of nuclear waste management, the national policy on nuclear waste management is currently being reviewed with the involvement of stakeholders and, as part of this policy review, we are looking at alternatives and options for deep-geological storage from the government side, so this work will essentially answer your question. As far as social consultation is concerned, this will be done every step of the way on this issue. You mentioned the question of the last public hearing. I think this aspect of this work is going well. The second question concerned the application for an installation licence. Indeed, we were very pleased on the government side that the opening permit had been submitted to Paks II the day before yesterday. on the part of the project to the National Atomic Energy Agency. The amendment referred to by you, according to which certain activities may be started before the final authorisation is granted, was initiated from the government side in order to enable the Atomic Energy Office to consider whether it would contribute to the start of such work, taking into account the preservation of security. This does not constitute any obligation on the part of the OAH. This is an opportunity for the investor to take such an initiative, then the OAH will examine this request and be able to take responsibility for it. [[17.40]] In addition, this amendment was sent to the European Commission for preliminary nonfiction under the Euratom Treaty, which raised no objections. Therefore, the type of security risk in the event of such a change that you have referred to has not been identified, however, they have understood the argument that, where appropriate and in addition to maintaining the necessary and mandatory security, if such a prior work takes place, and if the Atomic Energy Office considers that this does not jeopardise supply and nuclear safety in Hungary, this type of work can accelerate the implementation of the project. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to answer the question, and then I'll ignore the closing.
u2020-07-01-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Mr Péter Agh, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-181	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It is customary that at the end of each session, I collect in honor the anniversaries and events linked to my constituency, the county of North Vas. The first half of 2020 also provided us with a number of such opportunities. So first of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Soltis Lajos Theatre from Sitke, now operating in Celldömölk, celebrated the fact that they have been serving culture for forty years. We look proudly at their activities, its leader, Gábor Nagy deserved the Hungarian Golden Cross of Merit this year. I trust that the four decades of community organisation and public education activities of Vas County to enrich its cultural life, as well as its work to play in Hungarian across the border, will continue to be a success in the future. Thank you to everyone who, as a member of the Soltis Theatre community, has been able to give experiences to viewers in 40 years. Dear House, In 2020, Répcelaki is 30 years old, the cultural house. In 1990, a construction started in Répcelak, which allowed quality, quality and valuable events to take place in the building. On the outside, one of the most well-known and popular parts of the city was created, whose, I note, is the newest wedge of the Rado house, renovated by tender support. With this, the citizens of the settlement salute Kálmán Radó, who once served the region as a parliamentary representative of Sárvár and its region. We trust that in the centre of this beautiful square, the cultural house will give many people an experience in the future that will strengthen their connection to the city. Staying in Répcelak, 90 years old is one of the oldest brands in the Hungarian food industry, the famous taste of Répcelak and North Vas County, Bear cheese. Thanks to the workers of the Répcelak factory that, with their conscientious and quality work at one time and today, they have been producing for 90 years a product whose popularity is unbroken. Dear House, This year the Hungarians remembered the 100-year-old Trianon dictatorship, which also affected Vas County, since the entire western part of the county was transferred to another country. Respect Olmód, Narda, St. Petersburg, Felsőcsatár, Pornópáti, Croatian shooter and Iron Cross, who took advantage of the moment's actions to prove their loyalty, so they could remain part of Hungary. Hundreds and thousands of settlements, however, have changed their fate. Hungarian is the one who hurts Trianon said Gyula Illyés. This pain erected the Trianon Cross of Kőszeg and Celldömölk, the Monument of Twig and Sárvár. On this basis, historical Hungary was engraved on the heroic monument of Vép, and it was created on the basis of this in many of our new memento constituencies. Thank you to the community for guarding these places and passing on their message. Dear Parliament, As we all know, this spring was different from the others. I am very grateful that the inhabitants of North Vas County acted responsibly during the emergency. In our constituency, no human life has been claimed by the corona virus epidemic. Once again, the situation has proved that the power of love and unity can overcome the greatest trouble. I'm proud that everyone has done their job in their territory. Thank you to all those who have done their job, thanks for the organizing power of local civilians, the responsible attitude of the local authorities. In recent times, we have seen a number of fine examples of unselfish assistance, including fundraising, donations, voluntary work, and many Vas counties have shown that people can count on each other. Respect and gratitude. At the same time, it is important to draw attention to the fact that the epidemic is not over yet, so we must continue to look after each other. Dear House, Anniversaries and difficult situations confirm the sense of belonging. I continue to encourage the inhabitants of North Vas County to maintain the strength of cooperation, before which I have expressed my sincere respect for this speech. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-01-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-01-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is indeed customary for me to report in Parliament on the most important political issues concerning my city, my home, Pécs, and I usually have to deal with problems, but I think it is very important that if we experience positive progress or positive events and events, I should also report on them. And now I can tell you about one of these. It was my great pleasure that at the first ordinary town meeting in person after the emergency, the Assembly of Pécs took a really exemplary step, made an exemplary decision, and that decision went beyond party policy logic. The LMP submitted a proposal to the municipality in Pécs which presented a strategy to the city on the strategic direction of action against climate change and environmental destruction, and I am very pleased that all the Members present accepted this. So local pro-government, Fidesz, KDNP representatives and opposition representatives felt it important that such a strategy document be produced for Pécs. This suggests that local politicians in Pécs can already cooperate in the interests of the city, an important challenge, an important problem system such as the spill-over of the effects of climate change and the various environmental destructions. At the same time, it must be said that in many respects the city has a narrow margin, just like all other cities. On certain issues, a city government can act on merit, and on other issues, it can be said that it is vulnerable to other factors, such as the Parliament or the government's activities. The city of Pécs has repeatedly expressed in several documents that the right path is sustainability, which it considers to be a path for the city. Taking into account sustainability and sustainability, the city's leaders and local politicians want to rebuild the city's economy regardless of party standing. However, it is very, very important that the Parliament also creates the conditions, and Parliamentary Members, opposition and pro-government Members of Parliament are also responsible for this. The city has made it clear that it does not wish to accept a nuclear cemetery 8-10 kilometers from the western border of the city. For this, however, decisions are still pending, so we need to work together to change the programme for the management of high-activity nuclear waste and finally to make a decision to start research in alternative locations and to take into account the social and economic pressure and the social and economic problem system that makes this region in such a way, the Bodai Claystone Form. We believe that no nuclear cemetery can be built near one of the largest urban agglomerations in the country. Similarly, the general assembly of the city declared that we do not wish to see uranium mines under the inhabited areas of the city. This process, this authorisation process, must also be stopped. It is very, very important that we take action as soon as possible to ensure that the recultivation of the Karolina solution to one of the largest landscape wounds in the country is achieved much faster. To do this, the government must take action. The nearly two billion HUF planned for this year has unfortunately not been used, and we are sad to see that next year no funds have been planned. We also need to make amendments in this regard and make this extremely important work and recultivation activity with serious environmental risks come to an end much faster. It was a positive step forward that, in the case of biomass-based district heating apartments, the competent Secretary of State had already made a promise to change the current legislative environment, which precludes district heating housing in Pécs from applying for the home heat program. This is an important step forward, and I will now start negotiations with the Secretary of State, so that this amendment can be made as soon as possible under government authority, and in this way district heating housing in Pécs can also apply for energy modernisation. It is very, very important, and we have heard several times today that the government's aim is to take a decisive action to eliminate illegal landfills, and in this respect we still need to change the legislative environment. I have already indicated here that besides Pécs, for example, there is a dangerous and aesthetically unacceptable illegal rubber dump. Unfortunately, the authorities can't do anything about this, so we need to initiate legislative amendments here too. [[17.50]] However, it is regrettable that the pro-government Members of Parliament do not yet feel the task of taking part in this work, and we have now seen in the debate of the budgetary amendments that Mr Péter Hoppál rejected, for example, the amendment that would have provided a significant source for the city of Pécs to modernise public transport. Therefore, we can say that we, as opposition MPs, are ready to fight for these cases and have set a good example for local Fidesz politicians. We regret that the Fidesz, pro-government Members of Parliament have not yet followed this example; we hope that they will soon realize that their mandate is not due to the Prime Minister, not to a party, but to the citizens of Pécs, and therefore they owe them service. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2020-07-01-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your full day's work. The Parliament will resume its work at 8:00 a.m. I look forward to my fellow Members starting at eight o'clock. Thank you all very much for your work. Meeting day's closed.
