u2020-10-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, László Földi and Csaba Gyüre will be notaries of my assistance. The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law implementing Act L of 2018 on Hungary's central budget for 2019 will follow. T/13098. Government referral No 1 and T/13098/1 on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for the year 2019 submitted by the State Audit Office of Hungary Report No 1 is available to all of us on the House's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, to the hearing. Dear Parliament, I now ask Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, to come to the stand and keep his expo. I would like to inform Minister that his time frame is 40 minutes. We'll wait for Mr. Secretary to wake up here. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-10-21-1	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the implementation of the central budget is always a moment of truth. We're talking about what we've been planning to do. This is the task of the government, but in fact it is the responsibility of all politicians who feel responsible for Hungary. Let's look at the most important facts right now. Thanks to the work of Hungarian people and businesses, as well as the government's economic policy, the Hungarian economy gained rapid growth in 2019 with an expansion of 4.6 percent. The number of people in employment exceeded 4.5 million, while the unemployment rate decreased to 3.4 percent. Net average earnings increased by more than 11.5 percent, taking into account the family tax reduction, and the average amount of pensions increased by nearly 5 percent to HUF 133 700. In 2019 the government announced the family protection action plan, which brought many discounts to Hungarian families. This has all been done by maintaining the stability of public finances, and I would add that our country's international financial assessment has further improved. I think it is worth recalling what the left-wing representatives have said and what they have proposed in relation to this budget. One of the most frequently proposed proposals was to reduce our 4.1 percent expectation of growth. This would have significantly reduced our room for manoeuvre, for families, for business support, for pensions. On the other hand, as I have already pointed out, we have been confirmed by the facts: our predictions were surpassed by the 4.6 percent increase last year. Several people have claimed that in the middle of the European economy we are pushing down gas, and I am quoting one of the opposition speakers, and we are fighting growth. Well, that's been denied by life in 2019. It has been said, for example, that everyone in Romania will be ahead of us in terms of growth. On the other hand, the facts show that the growth of the Hungarian economy in 2019 was faster than that of the neighbouring country, because there they achieved only 4.1 percent growth, which is also a good result, we congratulate them, and we are not sad at all because all the Central European countries were on the growth path last year. Many also predicted that the bill would need to be amended several times. Well, I didn't have to once. That's part of the facts. I mention only one of the economic policy failures that occurred at the time of submission, that only those investments can be supported where the proportion of Hungarian suppliers is 100 percent. In fact, one of our most important economic interests is to put Hungarian businesses in the position. Unfortunately, we do not have enough natural and technological resources to achieve this, so the government is continuing to pursue an active investment policy instead. This is also the reason why investments were made in Hungary at a higher level than ever before last year. And, of course, criticisms were also received from the left regarding the Hungarian State Paper Plus, which was launched last year. This means that the issue is expensive for the State, and the retail bond is not worth the expense. On the other hand, this form of savings has been able to contribute greatly to a healthier structure of Hungarian debt, reducing the external exposure and vulnerability of the Hungarian economy. The result of the overall government debt management is that the ratio of interest expenditure to gross domestic product decreased to around 2 per cent last year compared to more than 4 per cent in 2010. So it was a good and right decision to launch this last June. I would just like to recall that since then, the Hungarian population has bought such sovereign debt for more than HUF 4500 billion. Good wine also needs a company, so I think it was right to start this. This year, when the country's financial strength and stability are essential to the management of the crisis, we have benefited from the fact that Hungary has placed much more emphasis on its own resources in debt financing in recent years. The facts therefore show that we are very fortunate that we have not adopted left-wing advice and have not reduced growth forecasts, but have increased support for families, we have continued to reduce taxes and support domestic businesses. [[8.10]] The government's strict and consistent fiscal policy and the growth achieved also have an important role to play in ensuring financial stability in the current crisis, i.e. providing fast and effective assistance to families, businesses and workers. Dear Parliament, Hungary's economic performance has been higher than the average of the European Union for years, with a stable budget and declining government debt in 2019. Last year, with the growth of the economy, Ireland, Estonia and Malta were among the fastest in the ranking of the EU Member States, so if I have to remind you of an international comparison, I can say that we were in the forefront here too. The deficit under the Union methodology was achieved by 2.1 percent of gross domestic product. I note that this value was the result of the consultations with Eurostat following the submission of the draft discharge law. You recall that the government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 80% at the time of the government change in 2010 to 65.4 per cent by the end of 2019, so we have been able to reduce our government debt by almost 15 percentage points in recent years, while the foreign currency ratio of the debt has decreased from 52 per cent in 2011 to 20 per cent in 2011 and the foreign-owned paper ratio has decreased from 65 per cent to 34 per cent. So all the vulnerability that has been associated with high public debt has been significantly reduced in recent years. It is memorable that in 2016, Hungary was once again placed in the category recommended for investment. There is a strange, controversial relationship with credit rating agencies, and there is a need for their assessment of international issues, but in our experience, subjective elements are increasingly included in these assessments. Well, let us note that in 2019, when there was a change in ratings of this type, we were qualified, i.e. Hungary was placed in a category that was one level more favourable. Ladies and gentlemen, In assessing the economic processes of the last year, it is important to highlight a few things. First of all, let me say what gave the momentum to the growth of the Hungarian economy, what was the element that supported this growth. Overall, we can say that almost every sector, every element, has made a significant contribution to this growth. The performance of the construction industry has increased to the greatest extent last year, thanks to the government's home-building programme, while our traditionally strong sectors, including the service sector, industry and agriculture, have remained stable, one of our most important economic growth-enhancing factors remains industry. The confidence of both domestic and foreign investors has been greatly strengthened by the financial and macroeconomic stabilisation of recent years. Accordingly, in 2019 almost HUF 13 000 billion was invested in Hungary, and the investment rate exceeded 27 per cent. Another pillar of growth is the consumption of households by 4.2 percent, so not only the production sectors did well last year, but also those sectors on the user side, such as household consumption or exports. Let me also say this: Hungary's exports of goods increased by 4.4 percent in terms of external trade, and although last year the rate of import growth exceeded its exports, the surplus on trade remained high, almost EUR 4.3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's economic performance has underpinned the continuation of economic policy focusing on families. As I have already mentioned, in 2019 the government announced a family protection action plan to support families with children and children. This includes, for example, the benefit of families with two children, which the government raised from HUF 17 500 a month to HUF 20,000 per child, which also resulted in a net HUF 60,000 more than these families remained in 2019 compared to the previous year, 2018. We have introduced the children's home care fee in recognition of the activities of those who care for children who are incapable of self-sufficiency. In 2019 this is 100,000 HUF a month, which will reach the minimum wage in 2022, gradually increasing in the coming years. In order to reduce the retail burden, we reduced the VAT rate for heat-treated milk from 18 per cent to 5 per cent from 2019 and the government continues to pursue the tax reduction policy. I'd like to come back to that later. The retail transfers were exempted from the financial transaction fee up to HUF 20,000 per transaction, and from the end of July 2019 the postal cheque payment and direct retail securities distribution by the Hungarian Treasury also became free up to HUF 20,000 per transaction. Dear Parliament, We've also been paying attention to people working in the public service last year. In 2019, new career plans were launched, and we continued those that we had started earlier. The first 50 percent increase in the careers of law enforcement and defence professionals compared to 2014 was completed with another 5 percent increase in wages. The wage growth of law enforcement and defence employees started with the first 20 percent increase last year. Government officials from ministries, government headquarters and central offices received 30 percent salary increases. In the context of a multi-stage wage arrangement in the healthcare sector, workers and women in charge received an 8 percent wage increase. In addition to all these measures, at the end of the year, the professional staff of law enforcement and defence agencies received a significant one-off allowance of HUF 500 000 each. In the past years, therefore, a number of wage measures have been implemented, which have also had an impact in 2019. Dear House, Whether it is economic growth or a crisis, this government remains the government of tax cuts. Last year, this was no different, we continued the tax reduction policy, and we took steps to improve the situation of businesses, to promote the whitening of the economy, and to improve the efficiency of tax collection. Let me highlight some of these measures. As a result of the wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016, from 1 July 2019 the social contribution tax on employers decreased from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent. From 2019, employers' benefits from the social contribution tax have also become more targeted in order to support the location of newcomers or those who are permanently away from the labour market or of permanent inactive groups that are more loosely linked to the labour market. As of January last year, no contributions and no social contribution tax will be charged to old-age pensioners, so they only have to pay personal income tax on their wages. In order to simplify the tax system, as of 1 January 2019 a new autonomous social contribution tax law was introduced by merging the health contribution. The administrative burden has been further reduced, and this is further reduced by the fact that from 2019 the cultural tax has been abolished and the accident tax has been combined with the insurance tax, so we have also been able to reduce the number of tax items. [[8.20]] In order to reduce the administrative burden on the general public, an electronic and personal income tax return system was launched in 2017. This means that our compatriots do not have to make tax returns, but the National Tax and Customs Office does this for them, it is enough for them to approve it, check it out, and the tax return is complete. So we even went beyond the promise that the tax return would be the size of a beer mat, because there wasn't even a beer mat, but it would be done electronically, and as a result of a three-minute process, the declaration would be ready. So this digital transition continues, and the aim remains to make the National Tax and Customs Office, the NAV, paperless. In order to increase the efficiency of tax collection, the online account data service introduced will receive information from the National Tax and Customs Office from 1 July 2018 on all invoices with VAT over HUF 100 thousand. 2019 was the first full year of this, and this year we want to be able to fully switch to an online account-based system. This work was recognised by the European Commission, the European Union. The amount of domestic so-called VAT, i.e. unpaid VAT, shows a steady decrease from the 21 per cent level in 2013 and, according to the Commission's assessment, has already fallen below 7 per cent in 2019. So we have achieved a very serious change and result. We always say that it is not necessary to bring new taxes, as the left does, but to pay the existing taxes, collect them, and then there is no need to raise taxes, no need to change taxes upwards. In 2019 additional significant administrative reduction measures for businesses entered into force. In this context, businesses' tax advance obligations in December have also been abolished for corporate tax, income tax on energy suppliers and the contribution to innovation, which will allow businesses to manage their money for five months longer. Among the many factors determining budgetary processes, the budget was positively influenced by the higher gross domestic product expansion than planned, the high wage dynamics and the positive base effect of economic whitening measures. Thus, in 2019 nearly HUF 300 billion more payment tax and contribution revenues were received than we planned. Dear Parliament, Allow me to continue to address the general government and its specific sub-areas, in particular the general government deficit. This was HUF 1204 billion, or more specifically HUF 1 trillion 204 billion, and the lack of a central subsystem was achieved at HUF 1 trillion 127 billion. This means that the target of maintaining our general government deficit at a low level has been achieved, with a deficit of 2.1 percent of gross domestic product, slightly above planned, but substantially below the EU's obligation level. We financed some of the items that we did not plan last year, but I think that we did it right, because we were able to continue and launch investments and developments that could strengthen economic growth and meet social policy objectives in 2019. Let me recall some of these, as this is the country's performance. Large investment in higher education continued, such as the investment of the University of Pécs or the creation of a new campus of the University of Physical Education. The investment of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts has also been closed. As a programme for strengthening national identity in 2019, we provided free access to theatre, dance and circus performances and classical music concerts for all primary school students, as well as to the exhibition places of indigenous animals. Every child should be able to answer the question of what makes me Hungarian, and I think that these were the right programs for these purposes. But speaking of investments, let me add a few more examples. In 2019 the Puskás Arena was completed, which was an old debt to the country, the reconstruction and reconstruction of this. From 17 billion HUF, the National Museum Restoration and Storage Centre, which fundamentally renews Hungarian museum infrastructure, has been completed. If you look at the road improvements, in 2019 a new Körös Bridge was completed from 145 billion forints, including the section of the M44 road between Tisakürt and Kondoros. Since 2002, such a long highway of some 62 km has not been completed at the same time in Hungary. It was a step forward for commuters between Vác and Budapest that the M2 motorway was extended in 2019 and this section of the road was completed from nearly 33 billion forints last autumn. Let me also highlight another example from the countryside: Kaposvár's traffic situation has also improved significantly, as as a result of an investment of HUF 96 billion, we handed over the 33 km, two lanes of highway 67. All of this was important to sustain the momentum of investment. My fellow Members, allow me a few words on health care. The budget provides a significant source for the program. Healthy Budapest.We were able to achieve family-friendly obstetrics, air rescue operation, extraordinary support from health institutions from these programmes, or even with the operation of the residency system, and the purchase of rescue vehicles from the National Rescue Service in 2019 were able to significantly improve the quality of health care. The central budget has supported, among other things, the development of St. Francis Hospital or the MAZSIHISZ Love Hospital, as well as the development of several hospitals in the framework of the Modern Cities programme, among which, from 2019, I would like to highlight the complex development of St. Lazarus Hospital in Salgótarján. If I mentioned the programme "Modern Cities": In 2019 there was a significant source for this program, and we were also able to launch the project of the Hungarian village. They have launched major road and rail network modernisation. In addition, last year we were able to provide funds to reduce mass immigration, to protect borders and to increase the effectiveness of counter-terrorism. The performance of these tasks is essential for the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. We have taken a significant step in the development of forces, not only through the purchase of assets, but also through investments. I would like to refer here to the fact that in Kiskunfélegyháza we were able to restart the previously operational handgun production. This was not in Kiskunfélegyháza before, but elsewhere, but it has not been in the last decades, and we have lost this ability, and this has restarted in 2019. Dear House, A few words about how EU funds have been used, what we have received and what we have paid. Hungary paid HUF 365 billion to the European Union in 2019 and received EU budget support of HUF 1566 billion. 75% of the payments were made by cohesion programmes, 13 per cent by rural development programmes and 12 per cent by other EU programmes with a lower budget. Non-budget agricultural subsidies represented HUF 494 billion in direct income replacement aid for farmers. All in all, nearly HUF 2060 billion of EU funding was provided in 2019. [[8.30]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, An important part of our budget is health insurance, pension insurance, and I would like to say a few words about this. I will start with the Pension Insurance Fund, which in 2019 had a payment of HUF 3500 billion, and we financed 2.2 million of its supplies. The pension premium, including the amount of one-off benefits, was spent around HUF 156 billion more on pensions than in 2018. In 2010, the government promised to protect the real value of pensions, and accordingly, pensions were increased by 34 percent between 2011 and 2019 and their purchasing power improved by around 10 percent due to persistently low inflation. Last year, we raised pensions by 3.4 percent. As a result of the net increase in earnings over recent years, the average amount of pensions increased by 4.9 percent as a result of the increase in pensions. Let me also mention the retirement pension for women below the age limit: 153 000 people made use of this option in 2019; the Hungarian budget spent HUF 261 billion on this purpose from the Pension Insurance Fund. Last year, for the third time, pensioners and pensioners were entitled to a pension premium, which was higher than ever. We also spent some HUF 50 billion on the payment of the pension premium. Last but not least, in September last year 2.6 million people were able to receive a so-called utility voucher for a gas and electric bill payment of HUF 9,000, let us also mention this. We spent some 23 billion forints on this. Dear Parliament, A few words about the Health Insurance Fund. The revenue was HUF 2433 billion and the expenditure was HUF 2540 billion. Perhaps a more important question is what we have spent this money on. The contributions and contributions account for about three quarters of the total revenue, a payment of HUF 1818 billion was made at this address and a small part of the revenue was made by budgetary contributions at the level of the appropriations. A quarter of the fund's expenditure was spent on paying cash benefits, baby care fees, childcare fees, sick leave, disability, rehabilitation benefits, and nearly three quarters were used to finance benefits in kind. This means that we were able to provide cover for healing-preventive care. This was the further increase in healthcare workers' wages of an average of 8 per cent on 1 July 2019 and, at the same time, the inclusion of women in the labour pay table. We have been able to provide funds to increase the financing of traumatic benefits, to pay a one-time supplementary remuneration for dental services, to increase the financing of institutions for the care of children, and to provide additional funding for high-value, itemised medicines, and to involve new procedures in public funding. Let me mention that expenditure on drug subsidies and support for medical aid has also increased by about 7 percent, the latter by about 5 percent, i.e. well above inflation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, allow me to express my thanks to the staff of the State Audit Office for its work on the audit of the accounts. Let me quote from the Court of Auditors' report:, The draft of the 2013 discharge law was in order and its content was in line with the legislative requirements. The legal requirements concerning the lack of a central sub-scheme for public finances and public debt have been complied with. I think that this was a very important statement by the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the 2019 closure report shows that the budgetary and financial macroeconomic results of recent years have been able to provide a sound basis for mitigating the negative economic and social impact of the Crown Virus pandemic. As a reminder, on the left, they called last year's budget anti-future, they called it unpredictable, they called it unsustainable, so they called it everything with a little exaggeration. We can thus conclude that our honourable left-wing fellow Members have not been right in this respect either. The crisis is not mitigated by austerity, but by a comprehensive programme by the government, the aim remains to preserve and protect jobs and businesses. We support families, and we focus on guaranteeing the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. One important condition of this was that in recent years, including last year, we had a disciplined, predictable and economic growth-enhancing economic policy. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I ask you to discuss, discuss, and at the end of the closing bill please accept. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-21-2	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. The President is speaking from the same platform. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Madam Secretary! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, ,, The ministerium is obliged to present the statement of the country's incomes and needs and its accounts for the latter's incomes for parliamentary examination and approval at the lower table every year. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The year 1848 was the year III. I quoted to you Article 37 of the Act, which first fixed the budgetary rights of the Hungarian Parliament. Why is this passage so important? There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, it was the first time that the planning of revenue and expenditure and the related accounting, which was the law and obligation both for the legislators and for the executives, appeared to be brought to a legal level. On the other hand, the problems arising from the practical enforcement of the law first outlined the need to set up a supreme Court of Auditors in connection with the accountability of the Parliament of a country with independent budgetary rights. It has been two weeks since the execution of 13 Arad martyrs and Lajos Batthyány, the first responsible Hungarian prime minister, took place on 6 October 171 years ago. I recalled this tragic event in this place because during the revolution of 1848 it was first required that an institution be established which independently supervises, has the Treasury accounted for, and makes it public for the benefit of the public. The first statutory display of compliance with this requirement was the 1848th year III. Article 37 Article 2 (1) (a) The stormy historical events of the two decades after 1848-49 prevented the full exercise of the right of closure. However, the compromise in 1867 opened a new era and it became increasingly clear that the Hungarian Parliament could not exercise budgetary control without adequate support. The recognition was followed, and Count Lónyay presented his proposal for the establishment of the National Audit Office on 16 November 1869. [[8.40]] The detailed debate of the bill started in the spring of 1870 ended on 21 June 1870 when an article on the establishment and powers of the State Audit Office was published in the Main Order House. With this, more than 22 years after the adoption of the laws of April 1848 the State Audit Office, formerly known as the Hungarian Royal Supreme State Audit Office, was established under the leadership of Solomon Gajzágó. Like today's Court of Auditors, the new institution has checked public finance and public wealth management as an independent, independent body of government. I have quoted all of this to you because the negotiation of the closing account is one of the Hungarian Parliament's basic historical tasks. Furthermore, this year, the first independent Hungarian State Audit Office started its operation in 1870, which had a fundamental and most important task of monitoring the implementation of the state budget, i.e. the closing accounts. It's no different today, a century and a half later. The State Audit Office has therefore been a guardian of public funds for 150 years and has been a financial guarantor of democracy for 30 years. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am convinced that we are still living in historical times. The Covid-19 pandemic has fundamentally changed our lives. It affects everything and everyone. The viral crisis transforms relationships to a degree that only the 1989-90 regime change can be compared to. The starting point is that the economic environment around us has changed radically and permanently. In my view, this would have happened in a much milder way, without the virus crisis, because at the end of last year there were signs of halts and relapses in several countries, which are also determining the world economy. The pandemic has a decisive influence on everyday life and puts great pressure on society and forces people to self-limit themselves. Everyday life is transformed, and the impression of it appears immediately in the economy, for example by falling back in consumption and increasing the importance of saving in everyday life. I believe that Parliament and the government must first of all consider dealing with a crisis or managing change. In this decision, monitoring and analysing budgetary and macroeconomic processes can be an objective starting point. The State Audit Office contributes to this with its audits and analyses in relation to this year's analyses and this year's report. Dear House, Hungary's Fundamental Law lays down the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable fiscal management, and requires public finance entities to be accountable to the public. The development of deficits and public debt is subject to a number of legislative requirements which need to be presented in the framework of the draft law implementing the central budget. In compliance with the statutory obligation of the State Audit Office, each year the draft law on the implementation of the central budget assesses the reliability of the revenue and expenditure data of the central system as a whole and the compliance with the rules on deficit and government debt developments. The audit of the closure accounts shall give priority to transparency in public finances by assessing the reliability of the revenue and expenditure data of the central budget, including central and chapter appropriations, the financial funds for social security, the allocated public funds and the budgetary bodies falling within the central sub-sector of public finances. The implementation of the statutory audit obligation, the Court's assessment of the discharge of accounts supports the Parliament, the sound adoption of the bill for the implementation of the budget. In this way, the State Audit Office contributes to the fulfilment of the requirement of accountability and transparency laid down in the Fundamental Law, to the responsible management of audited organisations by public funds, and at the same time informs the wider public. The methodology for checking closure accounts has been established in accordance with the relevant legal requirements so that we can give an informed opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole on the basis of the audit procedures used. Our monitoring therefore gives a comprehensive and objective view of the reliability of the data contained in the 2019 discharge law proposal. The State Audit Office of the State uses statistical sampling methods in the course of the audit of the accounts and has acted in accordance with its rules. Accordingly, it drew its determination to the entire crowd on the basis of the checks of the selected items. The method of sampling ensured that the State Audit Office could provide an informed assessment of the reliability of the data contained in the bill for all relevant areas of closure. Dear Parliament, During the audit of the implementation of the 2019 central budget, the State Audit Office found that the budgetary institution system ensured the regularity of public finance management in 2019. The draft law on the 2019 accounts is well-founded and the data contained therein are reliable. The 2019 central budget was implemented in accordance with the legal requirements. The Proposal for a Final Accountancy Act was prepared by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the legal requirements. The data on revenue and expenditure provided in the 2019 discharge law proposal are reliable and well-founded. The cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem in 2019 was 2.4 percent of gross domestic product, which was 1 percentage point lower than in the previous year. The lack of a government sector in accordance with the EU methodology was 2 per cent of gross domestic product, thus meeting the criteria set by the European Union in previous years. The statutory debt rules were met as the government sector's government debt in proportion to gross product decreased from 68.1 per cent last year to 64 per cent on 31 September of the previous year. In 2019 the public debt of the government sector, expressed in proportion to gross domestic product, further decreased from 69.1 per cent at the end of the year 18 to 65.4 per cent for 2019, as the Minister for Finance has just reported. The draft discharge law presents the financial data and information on the implementation of the budget in a realistic manner, and the figures on the performance of the revenue and expenditure appropriations contained therein are reliable. The central management revenue and expenditure appropriations forming part of the central budget have been carried out in accordance with legal requirements. In fulfilling appropriations managed by the chapter, amending appropriations, setting the budget balance and drawing up the annual budget accounts, the legal requirements were also complied with. In fulfilling the revenue and expenditure appropriations of the central budget institutions, amending the appropriations, establishing the budget balance and drawing up the annual budget accounts, the legislation was complied with. The implementation of the revenue and expenditure appropriations of the social security funds, the adjustment of appropriations, the establishment of the budget balance and the compilation of the annual budget accounts have been carried out in accordance with the rules. [[8.50]] In the course of the audit of the closure accounts, the State Audit Office of the State revealed to 41 organisations the reliability of the data contained in the draft discharge law and, while not affecting the regularity of the implementation of the 2019 central budget, irregularities and shortcomings which were brought to the attention of the relevant managers by letter of the SAO within the framework of the legislation. The irregularities recorded in the calls for attention covered the fields of accounting, bookkeeping, commitment and the functioning of controls prior to payment. I consider it extremely forward that the majority of 41 organisations have already taken measures during the audit to correct the errors identified, and just yesterday, I have sent letters again to the leaders of other organisations that have so far been forgotten. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in order to support Parliament's decision-making work more effectively and effectively, the appendix to our report includes a brief summary assessment of the outcome of the closing audit of the institutions required to report to Parliament. We have prepared a summary evaluation of each organisation with the aim of informing the Members of Parliament about the reliability of the data contained in the report of the organisation, since the accounts of the organisations also include information on the organisation's management, which is mostly discussed in certain committees of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, In recent years, Parliamentary Members and the professional public have been called upon to provide feedback on the deeper contexts of macroeconomic processes, in addition to assessing the draft discharge law. This work was carried out again this year, and the analysis was submitted to the Parliament together with the report. In our analysis of the macroeconomic developments in 2019 we noted that the growth of Hungarian GDP in 2019 was 4.6 percent, which exceeded the world average, the European Union average and the euro area average, as well as the macroeconomic forecast included by half a percentage point in the draft budget law, which was also considered optimistic by a large number of experts in Hungary, including 4.1 percent. The most significant impact on GDP development has been the increase in investment and consumption. Employees have increased by 11.4 percent at national level from 18 to 19 gross and net monthly earnings. This was contributed, inter alia, to the competitive situation for keeping the labour force and to an 8 percent increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. The employment rate in December 19 was 60.8 percent, which was 0.7 percent higher than the end of the year 18. The increase in the rate was supported by an increase in labour demand and a number of measures to stimulate the labour market were taken by the State in previous years. In 2019, the increase in the consumer price index was 3.4 percent. Inflation has also been intensified by a 5.4 percent increase in food prices, an increase in excise duty and a rising demand for households. Despite the dynamic increase in domestic consumption, imports increased only by 0.1 percentage points more than planned, in the context of the fact that the increase in exports, on the other hand, was 1.1 percentage points below the estimated rate in June 2018. In total, the deterioration of the external trade balance in 19 has reduced GDP growth by 1.1 percentage points in addition to good results. In 2019, the tax system continued to have a focus on consumer-traffic taxes and negative environmental impacts and health protection taxes. In order to combat economic whitening and tax evasion, several product groups have decreased their VAT rates since 2019. The enlargement of GDP has been indirectly contributed by measures aimed at whitening the economy, introduced in previous years and continuing in 2019. These include the operation and gradual broadening of the online invoicing system, the extension of the tax returns made by the tax authorities, and the further extension of the simplified tax possibilities of businesses. In 2019 the Hungarian economy continued to whiten. I firmly believe that the sustainable whitening of the Hungarian economy, together with a significant increase in employment, is the most important economic policy result in recent years. Improving the efficiency of VAT collection is also outstanding at European level, with a significant reduction in the domestic black economy and market conditions through online cash registers, electronic checks on road freight transport and the online account system. The difference between VAT, i.e. the potential VAT collected and actually collected, amounted to EUR 140 billion in 2018 in the European Union, representing an average of 9.2 per cent. The figures have been slow for years but have shown a certain improvement, but there is a very different picture in each country. In Romania, for example, there was 33.8 percent of VAT in 2018, while in Sweden it was only 0.7 percent, i.e. the Swedish State managed to collect almost the total amount of VAT, and at that time Hungary was at the top of the region with 8.4 percent VAT, and indeed in 2019 it continued, as was said, according to Eurostat estimates, around 7 percent. However, remaining with the 18th year data, Poland is 9.9 percent, the Czech Republic can compare and truly assess progress with the 12 percent and 20 percent Slovak value, which is one of the biggest advances in the European Union. Moreover, the efficiency of the Hungarian state's VAT collection is based on data at the level of Western European countries, and is even better than the German, Austrian, Belgian and British values. Compared to 2017, Hungary has achieved the largest decline of 5.1 percentage points in terms of taxation. I highlighted this because whitening means hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue for the budget, while increasing transparency, creating fair relations for economic operators and significantly reducing the possibility of corruption. That is why we say that the sustainable and outstanding whitening of the Hungarian economy at European level is one of the most spectacular and indisputable results of systemic action against corruption. With regard to VAT collection, I should briefly refer to the VAT reduction initiatives, which arise from time to time. There is no doubt that the targeted general traffic tax reduction for each product group or sector has an economic brightening effect. However, our analyses clearly show that in the product groups in which there has been a reduction in VAT rates in recent years, this measure has generally not led to a decrease in consumer prices in the long term, and even increased consumer prices in some of the product groups analysed. In fact, the arguments that reduce the VAT rates may be the recovery of the economy and the whitening of the economy, and the decrease in consumer prices cannot be clearly demonstrated. This shows that in the long term, the VAT reduction has no price reduction effect, and price developments were essentially determined by other economic and production factors, mainly demand and supply conditions. On this basis, the State Audit Office's position has been unchanged for many years. As consumption-type taxes represent a decisive factor in the stability of the budget, ensuring the revenue side, their imposition and effective collection are therefore a decisive factor in the growth of the Hungarian economy. On the other hand, we believe that further reductions in labour taxes are justified and that we also maintain our proposals in this regard. [[9.00]] Dear House, In 2019 the process of fiscal stabilisation and economic dynamism continued for several years. These processes have been broken by the Covid-19 epidemic in 2020, but its positive effects will also have an impact in 2020 as a safer basis for mitigating the adverse consequences of the economic downturn. Among these developments, I highlight the following. On the one hand, a continuous and significant reduction in the level of public debt compared to GDP contributed to the strengthening of investor confidence in our country. At the same time, the nominal amount of government debt has increased in recent years, which increases financing risks. This is why it is important that the ratio of foreign exchange debt within the public debt has decreased significantly, while domestic and domestic savings have increased significantly in financing. In line with this, Hungary's external indebtedness has improved considerably. On the other hand, dynamic economic growth has not only increased the level of employment but also made the workforce a more valuable resource. As a result, the majority of employers in 2020, despite the economic downturn, and employers less affected by the epidemic, were able to offer jobs to those who lost their jobs during the summer. Thirdly, the Hungarian budget has advanced the EU's revenues of the programmes co-financed by the EU by several hundred billion forints over the years, thereby speeding up targeted developments in Hungary. The receipt of advance amounts in a critical period, we hope, will reduce public debt. Fourthly, measures taken to whiteen the economy have improved the efficiency of tax collection and have a stabilising effect on budget revenue during this year's economic downturn. Honourable Members, The task of the State Audit Office is to support a well-managed state as defined by law. In addition to the reports, the Court of Auditors shall carry out analyses and studies in the context of its advisory activities in order to comply with this statutory requirement. The Court's analysts do not make findings, but highlight contexts and impacts, draw attention to dilemmas, risks in this area, and present results. As I pointed out at the beginning of my expo, the Covid-19 pandemic has fundamentally changed our lives and changed our lives in everyday life, and the pandemic has a brutal impact on economic and budgetary processes, so the parliamentary debate that begins today goes far beyond the assessment of the macroeconomic processes of the budget of 19 and 19. Only according to the latest IMF assessment, the current and ongoing developments will have twice the impact on the world compared to the 2008-2009 crisis. Consequently, an objective assessment of the situation is essential. To support this, a number of analyses have been published in recent weeks in which the economic, budgetary and labour market impacts of the Covid-19 epidemic have been assessed by my colleagues, as well as conclusions and suggestions. Our analyses are public, available on our website. I would also like to recommend it to the attention of the honourable Members and gentlemen. In the last week, the factual data of our analysis, together with our discharge report, revealed a lively public and professional debate on how old-age pensions were fixed and the difference between the average pensions of newly retired people and those who had already been retired. I am very pleased that the State Audit Office's discharge report and the analyses closely linked to it have resulted in a public discussion. Our task and goal is to contribute to the analysis of public issues of interest and concern to society. In view of the opinions published in the debate, I would like to draw attention to another analysis by the Court of Auditors, published in August this year, of the relationship between pensions, health and taxation. I hereby confirm the main conclusion of this analysis that it is necessary to strengthen the public's knowledge and abilities of self-care. It is the responsibility of the State to create the conditions for social security, and it is the responsibility of the individual to participate consciously in this system. In Hungary, the source of pensions is covered by the contributions of active workers, and health insurance benefits are based on contributions for workers. The social security pension depends on the length of the period of service and the level of payments to the budget on the basis of previous actions, using other corrective factors. As a member of a community, it is not possible to ignore public burdens on the grounds of self-care, but public burdens do not mean that there is, of course, no need for self-care according to everyone's potential and abilities, and at the right time, with forward-looking steps. The importance of public burdens and self-care and its joint requirement, which is in no way mutually exclusive, are also laid down in the Fundamental Law. I quote: "Everyone is responsible for himself, according to his abilities and opportunities, he is obliged to contribute to the performance of public and community tasks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. All this points to the fact that self-care and public burdens are a common requirement in ensuring the well-being and well-being of old age. Therefore, in my view, it is extremely harmful, even if you allow it, to confront the old pensioners with demagogic and populist half-truths and the newly retired. The State Audit Office did not do so in its report or in its analysis. Dear Parliament, In the current situation, the main priority is obviously to provide economic, financial and health instruments and to help citizens who lose their foundations. However, it is appropriate to give priority to the implementation of proposals that have a dual impact, i.e. help to alleviate the difficulties caused by the epidemic, but also contribute to a more competitive and sustainable development of the Hungarian public and business sphere during the post-pest recovery. In particular, it is appropriate to seek more positive, mutually reinforcing effects of each measure. Each measure must be designed and implemented in a complex way in such a way as to maximise synergies. In the Court's view, this can be achieved by setting up a set of criteria by the government and imposing proposals that best meet these criteria. The implementation of the resulting measures can only be supported by the government and Parliament if the preparation of the decision supports the fulfilment of the criteria and the performance can be monitored. The State Audit Office proposed ten so-called appropriateness criteria for such a criterion in the spring. The first five appropriateness criteria concerned the objectives to be supported, while the following five criteria provided a basis for assessing the synergy of the measures. The name of the criteria of relevance refers to the fact that the criteria are not required by specific legislation, but comply with the constitutional requirements for the use of public funds, such as expediency, effectiveness and transparency. Based on compliance with these criteria, priority can be given to action and investment proposals. And obviously, they can't all be satisfied. The SAO deliberately uses the word "investment', stressing the practicality of the effort to ensure that the measures are broadly profitable investments. The SAO set out the following ten criteria of relevance for the choice of investment proposals for measures. The criteria for the preferred investment objectives of the measure should be allowed to be briefly explained. 1. Removing skills gaps in human resources and improving the flexibility of employment. 2. Decisions to encourage the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies and to reduce energy and material use. [[9.10]] 3. Broad dissemination and introduction of digitalisation achievements in public and/or business areas, including training, further training, regulatory and legislative initiatives. 4. Improvements that significantly improve the efficiency and productivity of economic and public actors, such as workflow reviews, mechanization and technological development in areas of high added value, and in particular in the field of routine operations involving a large number of trained workers. 5. Developing critical infrastructure and strengthening national governance. The criteria for the synergy of the measure can be summarised in five points: 1. The measure contributes to tax simplification in a sustainable way, to the whitening of the economy, and to the strengthening of the integrity of public operations. 2. The measure also improves the administrative efficiency of the State. 3. The measure will speed up changes to ensure the proper, efficient and economic functioning of public services, for example through further expansion of economies of scale. 4. The measure reduces the less justified and sometimes wasteful capacity of the State, whether by releasing assets or numbers or possibly subsidies. 5. In conclusion, the measure encourages and recognises the risk-management, prevention-oriented and planning-based thinking and self-care of citizens. We consider that many of the government measures taken so far deserve a high priority on the basis of these criteria. In the case of further economic protection measures, it is even more important that, in addition to mitigating social problems, they should not only be budget expenditure, but also investments that will help the Hungarian economy to fit in competitively in the regional and global economy, which is changing even faster as a result of the epidemic. Dear Parliament, I believe that by means of our work, our report and analysis, published on 5 October and submitted to Parliament by electronic means, we will contribute to the favourable budgetary processes and support Parliament's decision to adopt the closing accounting bill. Our work is useful, as our experience contributes to the application of fiscal policy that leads to sound and long-term economic growth. Finally, I would also like to thank both the Ministry of Finance and dozens of over 100 audited organisations for their cooperation and for the work of their colleagues in this difficult pandemic environment, for providing their data and documents, but I would also like to thank my audit and analysis colleagues for their efforts, some of whom are now present in the box. And let us allow you to have a meaningful professional debate. Thank you very much for your attention. Have a good day. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now going to hear speeches from the lead speaker, but before I give the floor to the first speaker, I would like to inform you of the order of the speeches, because I have a duty to present the order of the speakers because of the pandemic situation. Mr Lajos Szűcs will come first from the Fidesz Group; he will be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpá from Jobbik; then Mr Lőrinc Nacsa from KDNP; then two representatives of the MSZP, Gyula Molnár and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély; followed by MEP László Varju from DK; from the LMP, Antal Csárdi will follow; and finally, Mr Tamás Melár from the Dialogue Group will finish the group of key speakers. I now call on Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will speak from here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-5	Honourable President, Mr Secretary of State, President of the Court of Auditors, Secretary of State, Members and fellow Members of the State Secretary. I'd like to start with personal sentences. It is already the 20th discharge that I can sit here in Parliament's walls, and every year the time will come, as the Minister said, that it is the moment of truth, and we will face the facts that we can say to each other in relation to the observance or non-compliance with the budget of the previous year. I'm saying this in a way that over the last 20 years, we've had to sit through a number of budgets, talk about what hasn't happened in the last year, but what hasn't happened. I also remember budgetary accounts where there were hundreds of pages of loose ends and new items in the accounts that were never part of the budget, yet they had to be decided in the accounts. No wonder, and not a novum for anyone, if I say that these accounts were primarily linked to left-wing governments. In this way, I say, for the 20th time, I am pleased that this closing account, as the Minister said, does not have an interim amendment, and there is no real tying up in this accounts, we can really talk about slick facts. Another year has passed, and at closing hours we will give an account and account for the year left behind. We need to talk about a year that I think all Hungarians can be proud of, because the pace of economic growth has exceeded the expectations. However, we do not have an easy situation when we talk about the previous year, since the whole world has been talking about the economic difficulties caused by the corona virus, and these are the difficulties it is facing. Close accounting is boring, but life is always a bigger director than we are, and this year we have experienced it. Let us recall that, if we had thought of the Hungarian economy in 2008, we were projected to have an economic crisis that the Hungarian economy was not prepared for at all, and we should consider, if we had read the final statement of the facts and looked at the fact that if the Hungarian economy had not done so, the Hungarian people would not have done so, how many IMF loans should have been used this year, during the pandemic, what restrictions would have had to be made, if these economic results, which the former Minister and the President of the Court of Auditors had spoken of had not happened if the Hungarian people had not allowed us to prepare for the pandemic in this way with the consistent work of the last few years, and in this way we could have waited for the budget for the following year. But what year did we close in 2019? It has been said several times, but it is okay to say as many times as possible that the Ministry of Finance predicted a 4.1 percent increase in the planning of the central budget in 2019. Let's remember the debates we had at the time, how many people said that it wouldn't happen. Those siren voices have always said that this cannot be done, that there will never be such an opportunity for the Hungarian economy. [[9.20]] Well, we report it, and not us, but the facts show that, let alone 4.1 percent, but 4.6 percent, the pace of economic growth. It is a special joy that all sectors of the economy have been able to contribute to growth, but I would highlight only two of them. One is the level of corporate investment and the other is retail consumption. In 2019, investments in the national economy increased by 12.2 percent, which significantly exceeded the planned growth of 7.5 percent. The willingness of companies to invest was greatly facilitated by the wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016, under which the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage were increased and the employer's burden was significantly reduced. This could have given employers room to ensure higher wage growth. Thus, average earnings increased by 11.4 percent in 2019 compared to the previous year, resulting in a very high real wage increase due to 3.4 percent inflation. This increase in wages also had a clear impact on consumption, as household consumption increased to a similar extent by 4.6 percent compared to the national total product. The government's fiscal policy and favourable macroeconomic developments achieved a deficit of 2% in 2019 according to the EU methodology. Here again, let us recall how many people believed that there were not only on the left, but also analysts, although left-wing analysts, who said that this could certainly not be done, and that the Ministry of Finance and the government and the persistent work of the Hungarian people brought this 2 percent deficit to be met. I have to note here that we have another clarification and clarification issue with Eurostat, which could increase the potential deficit by HUF 12.5 billion, which could change the deficit rate by around one tenth to 2.1 percent, but this is also well below the expected and planned Maastricht criterion of 3 percent. Hungarian exports increased by 5.8 percent, while imports increased by 7.5 percent. The external trade balance showed a surplus in 2019 as in previous years. With regard to fiscal processes, I would like to note the fact that in 2019 HUF 300 billion more came into the state register than was planned. There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, of course, the increase in the total national product, but also the positive impact of online accounting in 2019, which the President of the Court of Auditors has also said is that the whitening of the Hungarian economy has a very positive impact on the economy in many respects. This is one of the positive effects that, if that is the case, more money is going into the central budget. In the last year, municipalities could also manage with more money, as they also had higher local business revenues thanks to the performance of the economy. We can conclude that the total deficit of the local government subsystem was HUF 76.3 billion, which was designed to be much higher; the planned HUF 200 billion was the HUF 76 billion compared to this, I think it is a serious achievement. Dear fellow Members, Dear Listener! We have always stressed that the government is seeking full employment, because we have said and say that if there is work, then there is everything, so perhaps, in addition to the growth of the national total product and the number of deficits, the most important indicator is the evolution of the number of employees. In 2019 there was an additional 1 percent increase in the number of people working, while in the competition sector there was 2 percent increase in the number of people working. The population of public workers decreased by 3.8 percent. We can say that in 2019 a total of 4.5 million people worked in Hungary, which has been an absolute record since the change of regime. Remember, around 2008-2009, 3.4 million people worked in Hungary. I believe that if we have achieved this employment rate, we will be able to preserve it in the next period and even increase it, no matter what the pandemic situation is, but that is exactly what the economic protection measures of this year are trying to help. The aim of the announced economic programme, as we have repeatedly said, is to create at least as many new jobs as jobs are lost. In these times of crisis, I believe that the disciplined fiscal policy of the government, which has been its share of civilian governance for many years, such as gross government debt in relation to the national total product, has fallen from more than 80.5 per cent in 2011 to 65,4 per cent by the end of 2019. The main strategic objective of Hungarian government debt management remains unchanged, i.e. the reduction of the debt ratio should be achieved while increasing the ownership of domestic sectors and reducing the foreign exchange debt ratio. In line with this, the foreign exchange ratio decreased from 53 per cent at the end of 2011 to 21 per cent, while the foreigner ratio decreased from 65 per cent to 34%. It has also contributed to a reduction in the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability. I am convinced that less vulnerability to foreign creditors is more room for manoeuvre for the Hungarian government in the course of crisis management. That's what the experience of the last few months has told us. It is important to point out that Hungary's assessment of international credit rating agencies remains the same as in 2019: it is recommended for investment, which may give rise to confidence in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the implementation of the 2019 budget before us and the reports of the State Audit Office show that the government has managed the budget and that it should never be a worse year for the Hungarian economy than it was in 2019. At the same time, I would also like to acknowledge and thank you for the careful design work that is being done every year by the staff of the Ministry, as the budget has been submitted for many years in the spring, when even less data is available, but it is not the first time that this has not influenced or influenced the quality of the design. I would also like to thank the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council for their high-quality audit and advisory work, as they are constantly helping us with our work, not only the government, but also the parliamentary decision-makers. We used to say that budgets are consistent, predictable and enforceable. Now I would like to add what the President of the State Audit Office said is legitimate, reliable and well-founded. [[9.30]] It is certainly important to say this, because these sentences, these slick words, have a very serious meaning, and I hope they mean the same things to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Left critics always say that they wanted to use this budget differently, that they would have made other decisions. It's often like I'm handing out my neighbor's house budget. If I do not participate, I can, of course, have a lot of good ideas, but I think that, like in recent years, when preparing and voting on this budget, we would not have been helped but rather truncated and hindered. So what I can tell you is that this budget could have been implemented differently, it could have been planned differently, but let's remember exactly a period of crisis in 2008 [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] The result of which was international borrowing, the debt of the country, the framing of the Hungarian people and a serious economic downturn. I hope that's not what anyone wants. The results achieved by our efforts last year are common results, which all Hungarians can be proud of, which is why I ask my honourable fellow Members to discuss the bill and, if possible, to support its adoption by their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-21-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, who is speaking about his position. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-7	Mr President, Dear House, We have had our own moments in the Hungarian Parliament. These could be good professional debates, especially because the last peace settlement debate will take place today, as I presume, because the budgetary planning out of the epidemiological emergency and then the closure hearing will be a more hectic period for us in the next year or two. I therefore assume that we can now negotiate the last period of time that has been negotiated, when it is not yet able to capture its weak performance in the epidemiological situation, or if we are more lenient, it cannot use it as a legitimate excuse. At the same time, I would like to say that the series of production reports that we had to listen to here today is completely unprecedented, since it comes from partial denial of reality, and from the Minister to the Member, and from the keynote level, the communication panels in the Fidesz Centre make the minimum professional consensus that I believe would, however, be very necessary. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] In itself, this left-right sharing experiment, which Fidesz-KDNP is doing, I believe that it is leaving in public TV, leaving in the Hungarian Nation, but at the same time Hungary is not sure that it will bring beneficial effects. I know you don't think so either. You know very well that every honest-thinking public figure and person who rejects the amazing degree of corruption is slowly lining up against the regime that has developed in Hungary, which is able to put on the table such a unilateral report on Hungarian economic processes, which has been filled with political indicators and lack of professionalism. And obviously, rhetoric will be similar when fair opposition players in 2022 are likely to defeat this government. The fact is that beyond the world of production reports, it is noted that the shift that this government has used in budget planning is likely to cause enormous damage in the coming months, since the submission of a budget plan at the beginning, middle and dawn of an epidemiological emergency in the middle of the year before the facts, the figures on which the planning is based, are likely to result in a huge change tsunami, and an unplanable situation that may not have been as spectacular in peacetime as the non-compliance with the n-2 rule and the absence of international standards and rules, but it will now be. At the same time, it amazes me every time this government calls itself a right-wing national emotion. I would not agree to the Christian approach, because I respect everyone who calls himself a Christian or a believer, and I do not wish to qualify for it, especially as a believer. At the same time, the right-wing and national indicator has bled out several times in this government. The economic policy that this government is doing is going to turn into an amazing self-destruction. Think of the attitude towards multinationals or banks. Let's just think that in an epidemiological emergency, when everyone is now putting the money in the big hat of defense, the parties are 50 percent, in my view, the municipalities are much more than they should, which is the only one that is not involved in the protection of the disease. Secretary, which one is it? Fellow Members! ? Well, the banks, the banks on which you put a 50 billion-dollar special tax on paper. But what did they put in the footnote? They did that in the coming years, it could be written down to zero from the tax due. So these banks don't pay a penny for the epidemiological defense fund, plus they got a $1,000 billion credit line from the Hungarian National Bank with a 4 percent Marzz; they gave virtually $40 billion in emergency aid to those who would have to pay in the same way as everyone else. This is your national economic policy, the highest level of sergilism, servitude. On top of this, a pact was signed with the EBRD in February 2015, and it is on the website of the Government of Hungary in English, where they undertook not to impose any forints on the banks responsible for foreign exchange lending in order to settle the situation of the victims, and this is being respected. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! During your administration, more than ten thousand people have been thrown out of their homes without accommodation. Even your Prime Minister has given such a decent answer, because he may have felt that this whole process is unsuitable, but it is not a national government that contributes to an organised financial disaster. And I understand, I agree with you that during the pre-2010 governments, this problem has been dealt with incredibly terribly, and the rise of the credit mass can be added. I would add that we could go back to 2001, when unilateral treaty amendments became possible in the way they were, and that was the problem. Who was on the government in 2001? That's how national your economic policy is! Also, their treatment of multinational companies is a sign of a complete lack of national commitment. Look at the unilateral non-refundable grants granted to Audi; look at how much more unilateral, non-refundable support they give to multi-enterprises than even the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, even though they too overdoed this genre, and I rightly criticized them for this. You have pointed out this: you are even more supportive of multi-enterprises and even less supportive of the micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs sector. Do you now dare to talk about national economic policy? It's pretty amazing. What we're seeing is that there's a factor missing from all the professional speeches, by the way. I always read the Court's analyses with love, because I do find in them very valuable and descriptive parts of which I can get rich, and I say this most honestly. There is one thing no one has mentioned here today: the brutal economic effects of amazing and conscious forint weakening. And let's bring this down to the level of consumers, because many times such analyses leave out the real problem of the simple person, the real person. Let's take a look at a typical average consumer basket of what you're dealing with when you go shopping for groceries. Our poor fellow countryman would try, say, to buy only a Hungarian way of production from basic foods, thinking that the penalty tax of the Orbán government, which comes from the weak forints, is more expensive and paid by the population, we would try to avoid buying Hungary. First of all, in the typically foreign-owned chain, we can't do this after ten years of government, and if we can, the price of domestic food is also expensive because of weak forints, because it is likely that the machine, the seeding material, the spray will also be purchased from abroad by the company, because it often doesn't know from anywhere else. The Orbán government has deliberately weakened forints to the neck of the population, compared to the level of a normal forint exchange rate. We have often said that the Secretary of State was not here in his immediate Question Time, so I repeat that in the case of such a smartphone, [[He's showing it to me.]] It's not a luxury item, we all use it, 30-40 thousand forints for the price difference, a normal forint price, compared to, say, 250 to 300 for today. In the case of an H&M garment, this difference may be 3-4 thousand forints; in the case of basic foods, our retired compatriots pay hundreds of forints per purchase. [[9.40]] In order to serve exporting companies, you knowingly salt this special tax on the Hungarian people's neck for decades. The well-being of these exporting companies is not a rejected thing on my part, I am not an enemy of multinational companies or banks. I'm just saying that when you refer to the interests of domestic exporting companies, you actually protect the interests of 85 percent of exporting multi-company companies, since they make up a very large part of the export volume. I'm not saying that it's in itself harmful to favour multi-businesses, but it's not. But why don't they do what we would do, right-handers, or what a good part of the opposition would do? Where appropriate, if you give these companies a discount, let us say a general reduction in the contribution needed, we expect that two thirds of this will have to be used for wage development on a compulsory basis. Or make strategic agreements with companies that undertake to gradually approach the wage level at least to the European average, as permitted by the increase in productivity. But it is far from the current Orbán government and from the previous one, however, to put any clause on the table; strategic agreements are also, in practice, created in a serene manner, away from any national sentiment and national economic policy. The same goes for the production report on the number of people employed by my fellow Member, Mr Szűcs, just now. I wish my fellow Member was right in the way he said it. But how do you measure the number of employees? I would very much like to read about this in the reports on the budget, the closure report. You are able to accept professionally that on a statistical basis there is the President of the State Audit Office, a Member of Parliament, and a student worker who, where appropriate, works only two or three hours a week. The statistics you put on the table for us, that's what it is. I do not underestimate the work of the student worker, and I think that he is very much in service of the national economy and that his opportunities should be increased. At the same time, I think that it is unprofessional and unfounded to talk about employees in this way, because it is also necessary to examine the extent to which a student can contribute to pension payments with, say, contributions. Very little at the moment; we hope that the potential on this front will develop later. At the same time, we can see that this statistical magic, which is a secretary of state and a student worker in a row, regardless of the number of hours worked, the amount of contributions paid, is quite inappropriate for any design. This statistical distortion is about 600,000, because so many student workers, so many public workers, are added to your statistics in this way, and we can still include a lot of our countrymen working outside our current borders or in Western Europe, who, for some reason, are still listed in the statistics here. We'll come back to similar statistical distortions later, but the difference in the order of magnitude between the real number of employees and what you put on the table here is between 500 and 600 thousand, once again, without any substantive criticism that I'm not understanding. Yeah, I agree, if there's work, there's everything. By the way, do not attribute this sentence to Viktor Orbán, Gábor Vona said it here in Parliament, but then he was successfully plagiarized. Thank God, because it's a positive attitude, I really appreciate that. But the thing is, this job should be provided for everyone. We're in an emergency. I understand that it is not strictly the subject of the closed budget period, but let me make so many comments, since there have already been all kinds of political ratings and other indicators that are not in the same way as that, in this case, workers in all sectors are hit by the loss of wages. One of the most narrow unemployment care systems in Europe is currently located in Hungary. So what we see is that when we look at European countries, what happens to those who lose their jobs and livelihoods: there are wider opportunities almost everywhere. That three-month-old and very low amount of care that you don't even know what you're expecting is something quite amazing. Now, in the epidemiological emergency, they have not been able to make a substantial contribution to this; as they have started to replace lost wages in Europe as 14-15. The entire opposition side, everyone, has mantraded 80 percent that 80 percent of lost wages must be recovered from those who are in difficulty because of the CDC, and we have added that the same replacement must be done to those who have lost their jobs now. Therefore, not only should there be support for job retention, but also those who have lost their livelihood overnight in tourism and catering and do not have a realistic chance of returning to their original sphere in the medium term. The Government of Hungary did not think about these people, and it also kept the partial replacement of wages alive for only a few months. Now this model is running out, and they're pretending that the economic crisis caused by the pandemic simply doesn't exist. And they'll tell us in Parliament that there's a higher number of employees than a year ago. So they pretend in their fake reality that there are no guides, language teachers, interpreters who have lost their jobs in a mass, essentially no meaningful offer for them, and tell them the production report in Parliament. Does this look familiar to you from an era, by any chance? Doesn't this look familiar to you from before 1990? It is quite amazing that this government and its prominent leaders often use the same methodology against their political opponents as they used in their late youth. And they don't realize it, that's what's really scary. We can also see that the distortion of the number of employees is not the only distorting factor. The same is the case with international loans, which is now apparent from the production report. I very much welcomed it myself when the IMF loan was released by this country and it was able to get out of this press. I would just like to say to you that you are very proud of this, and that is correct, but you should tell us something about a loan with an extensive Russian interest in Paks, because I would be very interested in an analysis of the payback aspects here; tell me something about a long-term commitment to the Far East of Budapest-Belgrade giants. In how many years do you feel that this investment is profitable, or what kind of national interest is there in order to repay the country in such a way and so expensively towards the rest of the world? Also, recently there has been some foreign exchange credit on the international market, which could be remembered by a Fidesz KDNP commentator, if they were so proud that our IMF exposure had been reduced or, where appropriate, even ceased to exist, I would have supported the latter once again, only to have a complete picture, not to have a production report, but to have a full flow chart, from which opposition and pro-government representatives can then highlight important and exciting issues for themselves. However, what we cannot pass is the conscious weakening of the forint, I would like to emphasise once again. You're doing this for the benefit of exporting companies. These exporting companies are typically multinationals. The Prime Minister said at a conference in Saudi Arabia in 2016 that he is trying to attract working capital to Hungary for two main reasons: because he believes that the Hungarian people's wages are sufficiently low, we cannot argue with this, and he believes that the labour code is sufficiently flexible. I think that I have no reason, no opportunity, and no role in questioning what the Prime Minister has said, and I have to start from that. This is probably the government's attitude towards Hungarian workers. And I understand that one speaks differently at a conference than in Parliament or even at a reception hour, and I accept that, so I do not wish to be unfair to the Prime Minister, but he said so, and he has not made these sentences clear here in the Parliament of Hungary since then. The Code of Work may not be the subject of this debate, and there are people here who are more competent than me in this area, they will certainly talk about it, but the level of pay and salary, I think, is part of the better reality now, in a decade's perspective, we always wanted to fix them. Perhaps you remember our concept of wage union, it was also a plan for this purpose. At the same time, we can see that social groups have been bad for what Fidesz has done since 2010. Consider, for example, the situation of minimum wage earners who have not paid taxes before; since 2010, they have typically taxed their income as well. The Czech government is taking half of the Hungarian government's taking away from the minimum wage, they only take 15.6%; in Hungary, if we add all the additional effects, this level is significantly higher. And we also see that when the possibility of a tax credit has ceased to exist, a large crowd will suffer worse than before, even though it has not benefited before. We also see that according to your statistics, about 33 percent of Hungarian households are unable to cover unexpected expenses, and do not have any reserve system. I would add that in the Czech Republic it is 22 percent, but in Poland, Slovakia, it is also more favourable than in Hungary. However, in the middle of an epidemiological emergency, an exposure of this magnitude on a residential front may not necessarily be effective and it is fortunate to keep the macro numbers that are, by the way, controversial. So we could really have professional debates on how this country is doing in terms of macro numbers, but we can't get to these debates, because production reports and political ratings are being made. We also see that in the worst-case scenario, there are those who raise one or more children alone from the point of view of taxation and the burden on them. [[9.50]] As a family person, as a father of several children, I would obviously like everyone to be able to live in a similarly happy family. But let's face it, this is not the reality, and a lot of people are struggling with child rearing alone, and they have the same family policy goals as me or you, and it's completely incomprehensible why their load level is so much higher. The burden of childless people is also incomprehensible in terms of the fact that many of them want to be children, and the exact reason why many children are not born is because a childless or a Hungarian youth, even in terms of taxation, is so brutal that it is not able to generate the necessary costs and expenses. We also need to look at the changes that have taken place in terms of the Hungarian wage level. Perhaps the Secretary of State agrees with me that the average salary level for the whole region is the lowest in Hungary. In terms of the minimum wage, you have recently received relatively many attacks, starting from the fact that the Romanian minimum wage has basically overtaken Hungary; this is mainly due to the fact that, due to the conscious forint weakening generated by you, if you convert these amounts into euro, the Hungarian value will be worth less and less, so it will continue to be more and more backwards in an international comparison, although there is no place to go now, since it would be possible to compete only with the Bulgarian level. I do not dispute that, even at the minimum wage level since 2010, this progress has been eaten up by the budgets of the future, as the enormously increasing inflation rate, the spill-over effects of weak forints, and the rise in prices are quite simply eroding these processes. The pension system was also mentioned by the Minister in his introduction, and this would perhaps be one of the most interesting and important areas. The Hungarian National Bank considered the pension system to be possible in its present form by approximately 2030 during a budget discharge debate in 2010-11. What the predictions at that time couldn't count on is a brutal emigration wave. Some of the contributors simply disappeared from this country, do not pay contributions to this country, and we do not see the government's vision of how it intends to make the pension system sustainable. We see caution, first of all, they did not say that they promised a pension increase, but said that they wanted to preserve the value-proofness of pensions; we also see that this is not possible every year, because if there were a Hungarian indexation, and if we were to examine a typical consumer basket with a pensioner's pensioner, we would still be able to preserve its value with the greatest goodwill, with the greatest goodwill, but, again, not every period under consideration. And the promise of concrete substantial increases is no longer being made by this government, just because it has no vision in this area, it plans for four-year cycles, and within these four-year cycles it does not want to settle this area. We also need to see that again, in the most important area of the demographic crisis, this government is doing a statistical, transparent and relatively mean trick. He claims that more than HUF 2200 billion is available for family support purposes, but in this, let us say, he accounts for more than HUF 200 billion in the programme "Females 40" programme. We welcome this program, it is very good; I would add that if you had the courage, you would also have 40 men, because the fact that half of our countrymen are either not worth the retirement age or can take almost nothing out of your entitlement, and you will overlook it, in the reality of Fidesz-KDNP, it does not exist in a dimension, and you will not touch this. Okay, we don't accept that either, but counting the budget framework of the Women's 40 is simply an unnecessary trick. Why don't you just say one thousand and nine hundred each? Why should the reality be beautiful, and why should statistical lying be conducted in an area that can otherwise be discussed? So let us not say that everything bad that happens under this governance is not at all a debateable area. However, we also see that, in terms of the CSOK, as regards family support, and even in part as regards car shopping aid, this government is implementing a chemically pure neoliberal model. It does not provide an evaluable discount for those living in a slightly worse or heavier line, and it can be maximized for our more fortunate, wealthy, richer compatriots, giving them opportunities that they might not need. I do not understand, for example, the Secretary of State and now Minister Novák, why they do not think about changing the CSOK in such a way that it can be used much more widely for those who really need it, but, where appropriate, to support 150 million apartments in the residential park. It's just a thought experiment and talk about it, but it's quite incomprehensible why, in the case of a demographic, somewhat social support system, you want to favour the hyper-rich. In the case of large families, why do they only support the purchase of a brand new car, which is good, if you say, from 6-7 million HUF, which is not suitable for typical Hungarian families? But if we could also open this support system to people with the right technical parameters, we could provide meaningful help to many families. I think there is no more important area than the demographic front, and what we see here is that instead of a common minimum programme that would be accepted by all parties, you have started in a very different direction. Since 2010 and unfortunately, the number of live births has been steadily decreasing, we see that births below 90,000 have been recorded in Hungary for four years since Trianon, all four of them have unfortunately not been able to achieve the turnaround, the trend turn. By the way, KDNP wrote an excellent volume of studies editing József Benda and his associates, Our Future for the Child, with more than twenty policy recommendations, none of which, unfortunately, were accepted by Fidesz-KDNP, which would allow room for a substantial demographic shift. They always come with an increase in the number of marriages, which I welcome, this is not a joyful demographic indicator, and your demographers also mention this, according to the profession it is not a relevant indicator here, but I am pleased with it, which is typically because some forms of family support can only be used as a married person, which has made the marriage mood a little more difficult, but let us not discuss this; I think it is a positive process if it does not become a compulsion, but a possibility. But we also see that the number of live births is constantly dwindling. Now, compared to the tragic statistics of the previous year, this year there was a shift of around 5 per cent, a recovery, thus exceeding the 2017 value, but not exceeding 2016. András Bencsik writes in the Hungarian Democrat that, thanks to the Orbán government, Hungary has entered among the growing nations after fifty years. So we are also losing a small town, there is a recovery to the 2017 level, but we are below 2016, and you describe in the service media that Hungary is already growing rather than, after a frank discussion, we would agree on how to support these families. It is missing from the budget, and therefore, the closing account also offers the possibility of a public-funded housing program, even though it would not cost so much, and it would help thousands of Hungarians to stay home. Then these apartments that are not rented at market prices, but at much cheaper prices, could also be owned at cost; they could be kept at home, not by force, but by motivational means, those young Hungarians who are now fleeing from your climate and from your economic policy many times abroad, trying to find their calculation there. Here is a historic disaster, which also has a small amount of opportunity. Because of the international crisis, many of these young Hungarians are now at home, now we could develop programmes and opportunities that motivate them to stay home. You don't care about that. While demographic indicators are unfortunately falling and catastrophic, there is no home creation programme that is open to young people and not so rich. They've also eliminated the possibility of housing savings, and what have you put in place, Secretary of State? What do you say now? Who, in the past, didn't work very well, but did work with Fundamenta, say, a CSOK-department, what do they say now? I want you to wear a CSOK, but you'll forget that a lot of people can't pack that part up from under the pillow like this, and you don't have a market offer for these people. Then they said we'd work something out for him. It's been years, Mr. Secretary. I do not want to make this a cheap criticism, because there are, I say, debateable points, but you do not have an offer for all social groups, they cannot be captivated to thrive in Hungary, in the homeland, because according to the chemical neoliberal model, they only favor a large crowd from the upper middle class, and this is extremely dangerous. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] All in all, therefore, I do not want to offend anyone, the rhetoric is very often a bit Bolshevik-like, economic policy is chemically neoliberal, the glaze with which it is spilled, although it seems right-wing and national, but what comes out of numbers and facts is not the environment and climate of a patriot economic policy, but it takes the image of a very serene government, which uses combative rhetoric for multinationals and banks, but which often fades out. It may also be the case that the statistical figures for employees are not as bright as you are trying to perform, if any, demographic data. If they return to the ground of honesty, however, we will be able to support a great many measures, especially if they are finally willing to hear constructive, sober opposition voices. Thank you for your attention. [[10.00]]
u2020-10-21-8	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I salute my fellow Members, Madam Secretary of State and Secretary of State, and give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-10-21-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous speech, Dániel Z. Kárpát did not say a word about the closing report, but the honourable Member took an AA in demagogy. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Disprove what I have said!]] He said that it was a production report that the Minister presented, and what my fellow Member Fidesz said was also a production report. I must make you sad, honourable Member, the closing account consists of numbers, the closing account contains facts and figures, not your labels and demagogic accusations. And this is because there are good figures in this accounts, there were good figures in the 2019 budget, and we can see by the end of the year that thanks to the performance of the economy, thanks to the work of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, we could close 2019 with good numbers. You didn't say anything about that. You criticized us for calling you left. It wasn't our choice. It was you. It was you. The congressman also said that they would like to start with decent opposition players. Well, that didn't work out for Lucky, but we're hoping that next time they'll make a better choice. It is also ridiculous that Congressman accuses us of the rhetoric of the period before 1990, after you personally want to bring into power those who are the spiritual heirs of that period and who have been very active during that period. You want to help these people into power with your personal policy. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Tell us something about the closing account.]] Obviously, it is interesting to refer to a party before 90, whose statutes included that SZDSZ member should not enter, but he is a member of the MSZMP. This was your party, honourable Member. It is also interesting when you refer to the. Men's 40, when you ask us to do so, while you did not vote for the. Women's 40, while you said no to it. After that, discrimination is very interesting. But let's watch 2019. We must say that, in most respects, 2019 was an economic record year. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel:]] I've listened to you too, Congressman. At the turn of the government in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government took over a country that was heavily indebted, crippled, hopeless and close to state bankruptcy from the left. At that time, Hungary was one of Europe's most debt-bearing, poorest countries with the worst labour market indicators, with an amazing degree of austerity, where more than 1 million able-bodied people were forced into humiliating unemployment benefits. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments conducted anti-family policy, the family support measures that seemed natural today were unimaginable, but instead the Hungarian families paid the highest rent in Europe, and the lives and housing of hundreds of thousands of families were undermined by foreign exchange loans. During the governance of the left, he has achieved an unprecedented reduction in peacetime, and hospital beds, schools, railway lines and public property have been broken down at a record rate, while socialists have committed robbery. State wealth became private property with a noble simplicity during that period. In the years after the change of government in 2010, a hard-core crisis management period and a completely new work-based approach resulted in a growth path for the Hungarian economy in 2013 and since then a steady and dynamic expansion has been shown every year. In recent years Hungary has become one of the fastest and most dynamic growth economies in the European Union. I hear Congressman Mellar yelling. In 2011, he demanded and said that without a contract with the National Monetary Fund, the IMF, the Hungarian economy could fall in 2011 and this is not a realistic scenario, because there is no alternative to this contract. As is well known to everyone, Fidesz-KDNP has not entered into a new contract with the IMF, has repaid the loan taken out by left-wing governments, and the Hungarian economy has not fallen in, but has produced the most successful period of the last hundred years. Compared to this, Congressman Mellar just wanted the country back on the ventilator, as his friends of principle, whom he now wants to help in power, did before. Hungary has thus become one of the fastest and most dynamic growth economies in the European Union in recent years. This is confirmed by the fact that while the average EU growth in 2019 was only 1.5 percent, the Hungarian economy was able to expand by 4.9 percent. Rapid progress has been made in a healthy and balanced structure, as well as in debt-free. Government debt declined from above 80% in 2010 to 65.4 per cent by the end of 2019, and the composition of outstanding debt is much more favourable as it has been able to significantly increase the share of private sovereign debt and reduce the ratio of foreign currency debt and foreign debt. In line with this, the foreign exchange ratio fell from 53 per cent at the end of 2011 to 21 per cent, while the foreigner ratio fell from 65 per cent to 34 per cent. This has made a significant contribution to reducing the country's foreign exchange exposure and external vulnerability. We can recall that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai pair, on the other hand, tried to finance the gigantic size of their sovereign debt by taking on a huge amount of IMF loans of thousands of billion HUF, perhaps one of the worst conditions in the world. This loan was then repaid by the national government in 2013, well before the deadline. The significant debt reduction over the last eight years has been one of the most significant achievements of the EU countries, while many Western and Southern European countries have only been able to generate economic growth by further increasing their public debt. The safe domestic financing of public debt and the reduction of the external vulnerability of the Hungarian economy will be particularly appreciated during the economic downturn that has developed as a result of the corona virus epidemic. So life has proved that economic policy leadership has made responsible and good decisions in recent years. The external vulnerability of the Hungarian economy has been further reduced thanks to the government's measure that the government has led out foreign currency loans that drive families into debt slavery. As a result of the forinting, in 2015 retail foreign exchange loans disappeared almost entirely from Hungary. While in 2009 they were above 70 per cent in total residential loans, it has now fallen below 1 per cent. The record growth of the Hungarian economy was also greatly supported by the record volume of investment last year. One of the highest investment rates among the EU Member States in Hungary was 28.6 percent in 2019. These are facts, figures that you left-wing Members usually try to deny, try to reduce its importance. Nevertheless, or perhaps for this reason, this was exactly the case, and thanks to foreign investors, thanks to Hungarian citizens, Hungarian employees, Hungarian businesses managed to achieve this very significant result in 2019. In 2019 Hungarian exports increased by 5.8 percent and imports increased by 7.5 percent. In addition to the Hungarian import content of exports, the increased consumption and investment played a role in the former growth, including the positive performance of industry and investments resulting in overcapacity. The external trade balance continued to show a surplus in 2019. As a result of the government's measures to stimulate labour market activity, the Hungarian labour market indicators have jumped to the forefront of the European Union. We remember that in 2008 Hungary had a 56.4 percent employment rate, which was the lowest in the European Union at that time. [[10.10]] In the last year, however, this figure was 71.1 percent, which exceeded the European Union average. There is work, everything has been quoted by the Member Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. It is also important to mention the unemployment rate, which was well above the EU average in 2008, with an unemployment rate of more than 10 per cent, which was 3.4 per cent in 2019, one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union. It is also gratifying that more people have lost their jobs thanks to the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic, but we can see from the data in August and September that employment levels have returned to the pre-popular period, and we hope that those who are still among those seeking work will be able to find jobs as soon as possible, whether by stimulating investment or by keeping jobs and creating jobs. In addition to the increase in employment, the very positive trend continued in 2019 that employment was able to grow in such a healthy way that, while the number of public and public employees decreased, the number of people employed in the competitive sector increased. The number of employees has risen to an unprecedented level since the change of regime, reaching around 4.5 million people. National, Christian Democrat, work-based economic policy is therefore successful, because in our view, as I said, if there is work, there is everything. In 2019 average earnings also increased significantly, exceeding inflation by 11.4 percent. This real wage increase was substantially contributed by the government's wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016, under which the minimum wage and the guaranteed wage minimum were both increased and the employer's burden was significantly reduced. Here, too, I would like to reject the popular rumour and false news on the left, which is trying to compare Hungarians with the Romanian minimum wage. After all, if you look at the amount received by employees, the net they receive and can spend on their families, Romania is much lower, as the minimum wage in Romania is much higher than in Hungary. The creation of a work-based economy, coupled with a dynamic rise in wages, has also greatly increased the incomes of families, resulting in a significantly more stable household financial situation, which has contributed to the roll-out of foreign exchange loans which are a significant burden for the sector. While households were able to increase their consumption due to their improved income situation, it was not combined with excessive debt, which is well demonstrated by the 12-percent saving rate, which is also outstanding in the EU comparison. Here it is regularly said as a left-wing charge that the upper-income groups have been helped by these measures aimed at the eradication of family and poverty. It is clear from both the Statistical Office and Eurostat that the number of people exposed to severe material deprivation has decreased significantly, many indicators in which different degrees of poverty are measured by Eurostat and the Hungarian Statistical Office. So I think that this accusation on the left is not true either, because that was our goal and our goal is to ensure that every Hungarian person, every Hungarian family, knows one, two, and then more. In particular, it is beneficial that, in parallel with the increase in employees' incomes, the profits of businesses have also increased, so the wage catch-up that has started as a result of record employment has not affected the competitiveness of domestic businesses and companies. In particular, it is worth pointing out that a number of elements of the unique family protection action plan across Europe were introduced last year. Accordingly, in 2019 we were able to get more support than ever for families and children who have had children. In 2019 the amount of support for families doubled compared to 2010, thus exceeding HUF 2000 billion. Remember, during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, raising children meant poverty. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's 2019!]] Raising a child, raising more children meant one with poverty. While we are now able to leave more and more money to protect families and support families with the Hungarian families, with increasing family support. By comparison, there were no family support tools in the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government that are now considered natural in Hungary. Young people were not given any help in starting their own lives, creating homes, getting married, starting a family and having children, but they wanted to introduce tuition fees, they took away the third year child, there was no child extra, and the family tax was only HUF 4,000 for the third child. Overall, in Hungarian economic policy, 2019 was characterised by economic growth, a record low unemployment rate, a record investment rate, significant real wage growth, declining public debt, the pension premium and the country's vulnerability and further decline in foreign exposure. Accordingly, this year's pandemic and subsequent global recession reached Hungary in a much healthier, stronger and more resilient situation compared to the 2008-2009 economic crisis. It is very important to look at the difference in crisis management, as we can remember that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-tandem could only imagine crisis management with austerity in 2008-2009. While we are now encouraging investments, keeping jobs, expanding family support, returning the 13th month pension, let's look at what Ferenc Gyurcsány did and what Gordon Bajnai did in 2008-2009! After all, when there was a global crisis, Ferenc Gyurcsány tried to deny it here in the Hungarian Parliament that Hungary would be affected in any way. What did Ferenc Gyurcsány do at that time? He eliminated family tax incentives and home-building benefits, and he eliminated favourable housing loans. Z. Kárpát Dániel asks us for a home creation program [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] while trying to help those who have eliminated all forms of home-building and preferential housing loans [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! It's not true at all!]] All options have been eliminated. [[Gergely Harvestó: None of this is true!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány decided to withdraw 600 billion forints. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Buy potatoes!]] As a result, sick care was on the verge of collapse, schools were closed, especially small settlements and villages were affected by these school closures, and there was a wave of hiring and dismissal among teachers. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true either! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Buy potatoes!]] The Secretary of State for Education was a big part of this, of course. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The potatoes are on sale!]] A month's retirement and a drastic reduction in the real value of pensions were caused by Ferenc Gyurcsány, the break-in reached a 10 percent decrease in real value. The gas prices were tripled, the food VAT was doubled, Hungarian families had to pay HUF 1060 billion more between 2004 and 2010 due to the 15 times increase in gas and electricity prices. The lower rate of personal income tax was raised from 18 percent to 19 percent, so not by tax cuts, not by tax reductions, as the current national government is doing in the crisis, but by tax increases in the middle of the economic crisis. We see that this is the proven left-wing recipe, as Gergely Christmas is preparing for exactly the same thing: she wants to raise taxes. A 5% increase in excise duty was made and the retirement age was raised to 65 years of age. The public sector's gross salary was frozen for two years, the number of employees stopped, the 13th month salary stopped and the local government's subsidies were significantly reduced. We were also accused here in the 2021 budget debate by the honourable left-wing representatives of the resources that the central government was withdrawing from the municipalities, while in 2008-2009 the municipalities had experienced unprecedented withdrawals, and that is how we got to the point where the Fidesz-KDNP government had to take over the government's strangling and record-sized debt at that time. So it was you, honourable left-wing Members, who took the money from the municipalities, who made it difficult, even impossible, for the municipalities to live. The 13th month's pension has been abolished, and the backlogs have not been paid. They cut the sick money 10 percent. While we are being asked for a job-seeking allowance, the various issues of sickness control were cut by 10 percent by Ferenc Gyurcsány. The age of the family allowance has been reduced from 23 to 20 years of age, and Gyes and Gyed have been together for only two years instead of three. The housing subsidies have been abolished, gas price and district heat compensation have been eliminated. The result of these decisions was that the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, paid the highest prices in Europe. This situation, this crisis management, was inherited in 2010, and we see a very, very sharp distinction between the crisis management of the current, otherwise Christian Democrat, conservative, national, local patriot government and the then crisis management of foreign interests that betrayed national sovereignty and which was otherwise completely flawed. [[10.20]] It is very clear from the decisions that there are differences between the fact that the left is raising taxes, the left is pressing, the left is taking money away from families, while the Fidesz-KDNP government is restoring the 13th month pension in the crisis, expanding family support, increasing investment and providing job protection support to businesses. Everyone can measure the difference between the crisis management of the two governments, and everyone can measure exactly what crisis management would be if the left, the rainbow coalition, took power again, and Professor Mellar would run to the IMF in the first place to reconnect the country to a respirator, as he planned in 2011. Thank God, they weren't in a decision position, so we were able to save the sovereignty of the country, we were able to deliver that loan, and we were able to get the Hungarian economy back on its feet. By comparison, the performance, stability and economic policy of the past years, based on dynamic growth, have enabled the government to introduce a uniquely large package of measures in the country's history to prevent the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic, which represents a transfer of more than HUF 9000 billion. In comparison, the Bajnai package included a HUF 1000 billion cutback in 2009, which was taken from families, young people, young people planning their future at home, public sector workers and pensioners, and now we have introduced a HUF 9000 billion economic protection package to protect families, young people, pensioners and jobs. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I understand, Mrs President, that it pains you that you have assisted all of these, and I understand that these measures are linked to your name. Yet so it was, unfortunately, these are facts, and we inherited this situation in 2010. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] The past performance of the Hungarian economy and its confidence give us the opportunity and hope that as the epidemic eases, the Hungarian economy can regenerate quickly and return to a dynamic growth path. Last year's dynamic economic growth, increasing employment, significant real wage growth, stable public finances, declining public debt and a record-scale investment wave, as well as ever-increasing family support, all show that the 2019 budget was successful. It should also be said that, in the budgetary debate, the extraordinary government reserves and the National Defence Fund are usually spent in advance by the representatives of the Left. So it is clear that if we had listened to them, the first wave of the plague would have meant that there would not have been a penny in the National Security Fund; there would not have been a penny in the reserve for extraordinary government measures; so we would have been completely empty-handed and completely unprepared for the first wave of the epidemic. Therefore, we have learned from this lesson that the left can only be taken, given, and not be listened to in budgetary matters. I think that the 2019 budget has been successful. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance, its managers, its staff, the State Audit Office and everyone who has contributed to the planning, implementation of the budget and now to the preparation of the accounts. The KDNP fraction supports the 2019 accounts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-21-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár.
u2020-10-21-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman and Lords! This debate is starting to take very exciting directions about who talks about numbers, who talks about politics. I'll try to stick to the original agenda. Let me tell you that politics has certain rules. The Fundamental Law is a framework of something, a set of rules. A budget is philosophy itself, it is a solution to how within those frameworks who imagines the future of our country. And I am the third person to say this here today, indeed, the moment of truth, when we are confronted with the fact that the question is not whether the numbers have actually been fulfilled, but whether the social policy goals that have been pulled behind have actually been met. After almost two hours of debate, one wonders why people don't like politics. Perhaps because, in some ways, we tend to talk side by side, and we are in a very serious competition to see, from the set of numbers, the amount of numbers and paper on the Secretary of State's desk, who, in his own interests, can choose the best possible one. And indeed, we have used the term ",, success propaganda" but let us now be allowed from this point of view: there is indeed a recurring formula that tax revenues are increasing in Hungary, indeed there is a serious economic growth in Hungary, which can also be interpreted in relation to the region. But the question that we are asking in this regard is right away and immediately, what is our main goal if there is such an increase? What is it that we invest in Hungarian taxpayers' money and economic performance? Why don't we try to establish a pension system for a peaceful, peaceful old age? Why can't we create a truly modern, innovative education system for everyone? Why don't we really build a preventive health care system for people? Compared to this, you will increase operating costs in an opaque and disproportionate way, while spending money on prestige investments, where you build your own clientele, finance local governments and friendly self-governments, I will say a few words about it, and, of course, we cannot ignore the government money spent on amazing amounts of propaganda and communication. It is worth analyzing the situation here in a wide variety of numbers. The original plans were designed with 2.7 percent inflation, which was 3.4 percent at the end. I do not want to analyse it in length, because I myself have prepared a type of analysis that my good fellow Member has done before me, which is that if we really look at 3.4 percent strictly, the impact on the various social groups is significantly different. I think he used the sentence that he was close to, say, a pensioner's consumer basket and pension growth, that maybe 2019 did not mean such a relief to them, but it did not mean that their consumption and their lives could actually improve. I have indeed prepared one of those, but I will only say in the headlines that the release of the euro exchange rate in this way is obviously good for some speculators. It is obviously good for certain economic interest groups, but I am sure that it is not good for a large part of the Hungarian people. And not only for cases where someone at home tries to obtain an import product, but also because if he goes abroad, although he cannot or may not do so this year, he may feel how little, how little his income is worth abroad. We would clearly like to state on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party that we continue to feel that the number of people living in uncertainty has increased. The stability and fear of workers have not diminished, has not changed over the past period and has increased significantly, inequality between different social groups may increase. We, the Socialist Party, do believe that there is an economic competitiveness programme that is also trying to build a solidarity society. So we can imagine a market economy where social inequalities can be straightened out and balanced with various government programmes; when prosperity is accessible not only to individual individuals, not only to certain privileged groups, but also to society as a whole. I would also like to draw up a very short line of thought on the tax system, the tax issue. Interestingly, you talk about the government of tax cuts regularly, and you point gracefully towards the theatre left; and I really feel sorry for Jobbik, who is poor in this regard. [[Intercoms.]] And they say that if we were in power, we would increase taxes or increase taxes. You have to be sad because that's not what we're thinking at all. You have introduced quite a number of taxes. There is no need to increase these taxes. However, the internal content of this is worth thinking about, and I clearly believe that there is a fairer tax system in Hungary. [[10.30]] A fairer tax system is also true for individuals and is true for economic enterprises. So I think it is impossible that today large companies are virtually barely paying a profit tax on the Hungarian budget, while, by the way, small businesses are being taxed in a rather strict way. And I think that those with millions of forints of income should take on the same tax burden as people who work around the minimum wage. So I do think that this tax system can be changed, we are not talking about increasing taxes, we are not talking about increasing taxes, we are talking about changing the internal content of tax revenues. With regard to revenue, it can indeed be said that 2019 was an outstanding year for tax revenues. We listened to this in Minister's exposé, he said that the efficiency of tax collection has improved, and then we praise the tax office, but I still think that the real question is how and how all the revenue that we Hungarian taxpayers are paying into the budget will be distributed. Because let's be just, in fact, what we're talking about is our money, our money being redistributed in some way. And then let's take a look at the inside of these things. I would like to deal with the structure of the expenditure, and I will try to satisfy the need of my fellow Member from KDNP to talk about the numbers of the accounts. Well, within the budget, within the accounts, we can see that the state's operational functions were spent at 19.9 percent in 2019, and this is an increase compared to,, 18, since it was 19.1 percent at the time. I think it's exciting because here it's really obvious that they're a little bit more comfortable with themselves. It is as if they are thinking that when they try to publish employment or income data, they very often confuse the fact that ministers, State Secretarys, the high-income public servants and the mass of those at the bottom of it develop in some way, and if it can be said that the expenditures of this kind of government function are increasing, then I would be pleased, or we would be much more pleased if this were to happen at the end. So we wouldn't listen every day to the fact that government agencies have labour problems if we didn't listen to the fact that government agencies are no longer able to hire good professionals, because it's practically becoming harder to find employment for income. And let's talk about welfare functions here. 56.2 percent of the budget was spent in 19th, before that, in 18th. So welfare expenditure has also decreased within the budget. And I would like to say again, many times in this House, we are confronted with these various answers, that they are trying to compare numbers before 2010 with numbers 19 and 19 and try to set up different proportions, obviously those that are more favorable. Here, I think, in absolute terms, that these figures are obviously increasing, as inflation is rising, because everything else is changing, but the internal ratio shows that you have spent again less money on welfare functions in the last year. In particular, the educational activity is 10.8 percent compared to the previous 11.6, so the area of education is also decreasing, and in the field of health, 9.1 percent compared to 10.8 percent in 2018. So in the key sectors we have talked about, and what you are trying to show here with the right resources available, budget support has fallen in recent years within the internal content of the overall budget. Last year's closing statement said it was an election budget, but it was an election budget, because, right, there were parliamentary elections in 2018. We also said later that we were seeing an election budget again. We could say this because in 2019 there were municipal elections and, moreover, rather important municipal elections. If we analyse this, it is a bit of a smiling former minister's block in his speech when he spoke about successes and different results. I do not say that he was able to list too strong items, but the 42 kilometers is the greatest success of the past decade, but this seems to be a baroque exaggeration, but I also see that his speechwriters have been very focused on Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. But it's okay, it's obviously an important thing. Interestingly, we have heard less about the HUF 10 billion budget of moving the Ministry of Finance to the Castle, the Hausmann plan, which is the renovation of the Castle in Buda, but it is related to the Prime Minister, the 28 billion of Liget Budapest, the already mentioned government propaganda, which is HUF 45 billion, and sometimes there are always such additional additions, and the pro-government public media, which itself manages from HUF 80 billion and nearly HUF 80 billion. And yes, of course they didn't have to change the budget. I understand that, for some reason, the communications teams have given you the opportunity to tell everyone. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I didn't say that.]] And I want everyone to confirm that, yes, but they haven't been in the habit of changing budgets by law for a long time, and they've put together systems so that the government can change it by decree. We're not gonna play this game this year. I think it's going to be a much more exciting story than next year's accounts, that we're going to collect it, or someone's going to be able to make a 15-20-minute speech just by telling us what kind of transfers were made in this epidemiological emergency, which, to put it mildly, didn't serve the social policy goals that you originally announced. It's very exciting and interesting, I don't want to go into this for a long time, but in Annex 4, your municipal support model is shown. The previous speaker here praised this, so that we should definitely acknowledge that and give him a slap on the wrist. If we analyse this table more thoroughly, we can see that the friendly authorities are, however, more friendly municipalities, and it can be seen that, after the election result on 13 October, some of them have certainly lost in the way that local citizens voted very wisely. So it seems that you have withdrawn central support from some of the free self-governments. We do not understand exactly how the poor man XII got involved in this. district. It may be that former Minister Pokorni, mayor, has spoken too much praise for the mayor of Christmas, so his 7.4 billion Normafa project dropped by 2.4 billion. But I'm sure Mayor Pokorni will figure this out. And to this day, we see clearly the kind of policy we see in the submission of tax laws that you continue to work on how, how, and how, municipalities can be bled out. This is a general bleeding out, and we can clearly see that this is being returned to the friendly authorities on another branch and on the development arm. Obviously you have a fear that if you can build a normal, livable Hungary locally in these places, then a third of Hungary can feel what it means to live in a more normal, clearer, clearer world. Ladies and Gentlemen, To conclude, leaving time for my fellow Member, the very, very old dilemma, which I have repeatedly said here in budgetary debates, can be seen again in action, I would like to confirm: you are in a relatively good economic world economy situation, with low energy prices, in a world where the European Union's money was available in large quantities, when Hungary's key economic partners prospered, what have you built? What has been added to Hungary? What will be in the yearbooks in 15 to 20 years? Have you built a modern European Hungary? You have built a future, or you have taken it backwards; you have put money in stones, not in innovation, an avítt, old Hungary. That's the real question. This can be answered here, it can be refuted, but in decades, when our offspring will look back on us, it will be decided whether or not they have laid the foundations of a modern Hungary. We're saying it's not. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-21-12	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. [[10.40]]
u2020-10-21-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say a few sentences to Congressman Nacsa. Well, let's just say you don't know what hurts me, and you don't know what's in our head. Well, you're not here yet. The other: you said in your speech that if there's work, there's everything. It is not enough work to become an employee, but we are also talking about a paid, well-paid worker. If we are talking about closing the budget, it is a recurring problem for the budget for years that the government will submit it in advance without knowledge of the economic data, so it acts as a virtual fiscal tip-off game, not as a real budget. This can also be seen in the case of the current 2019 accounts, where we can see detailed analyses of where, how the planned expenditures and revenues have fallen or have just been exceeded. However, there are several important areas that should be highlighted separately. And now allow me to say that precisely because at the beginning of the year we were faced with a global epidemic, we are now experiencing the second wave, and you must have read today's data that 48 of our countrymen have died, and now we have 201 countrymen on a ventilator, let me deal with one sector: this is the state of health in Hungary, the state of basic care. The closing report discusses the results of the GP's and dentist's residency and the GP's practice purchase proposal. However, the explanatory memorandum does not specify how many of the GPs who concluded the contract had received a residency application for themselves, how many permanently unfilled GP districts were uploaded through these applications. It is also very important because I will discuss in detail how we are now in the field of general practitioners in Hungary. The closure report describes the strengthening of the basic supply and the extension of its competence, yet the continuous growth of the permanently unfilled GP districts is visible. Because of this persistently unfilled area number, we are talking about nearly 900 thousand people in the dental district and, in the case of general practitioners, we are talking about 2019, about 600 thousand people who could not get access to basic care on a daily basis; now we are talking about more than 720 thousand people. So, in 2019, 600,000 people were affected, and although the competent rapporteur for the EMMI says on each occasion that these districts were also filled with replacements, it is not difficult to see that a few hours a week's order does not replace a general practitioner who is working in full-time with the residents of a particular area. Moreover, such a large shortage of general practitioners undermines the success of public health programmes in primary care, often in disadvantaged communities where they are most needed. The real development of basic care, the development of group practices and practice communities, the increase of the powers of the general practitioners, the settlement of the financing of the dental districts have all failed, and these have not been corrected by the government in 2019 after the adoption of the budget. Contrary to the nice lines in the accounts, the reality is that the primary care providers are increasingly burdened, and the Hungarian population needs to be cared for by fewer and fewer doctors. In these circumstances, it is difficult to ensure the role of gatekeeper in the basic supply. The number of unfilled practices has doubled since 2010: in 2010 we talked about 176 empty districts, while in 2018 we talked about 402 and, according to the data now known, the number of districts where there are no general practitioners on a daily basis is above 560. The proportion of permanently unfilled practitioners has also increased within the unfilled practices, which means that in more than six months no GPs have been found in the given area; this has increased from 53 per cent to 61 per cent. Based on this, basic care is an area of healthcare for which the Orbán government has not yet found a good solution. I have to say here that according to the survey of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the number of Hungarian doctors under 30-40 represents only 2 percent of the number of doctors, and one of the most shocking data is that more than 300 young doctors under 40 have left the profession in the last year. This means that he has given up his medical profession permanently, or perhaps not finished his medical work, but has gone abroad. We're talking 300 doctors under 40! However, it has been said several times in Parliament that more than 50 percent of doctors have already reached their retirement age. We are talking about a very, very serious problem, and that is because we are in the middle of a pandemic, and every day we see more people getting sick, more people dying, more people getting on a ventilator, all the rest of the care is going to be behind us. We've talked a lot about this problem, and basically what the government tells us here every day or even through the media, well, it's not really real. The Parliament has discussed the issue of hospital infections and infection control over the past few years, and has done so because many cases have been discovered that have highlighted the high number of people who have died from hospital infections. I would add that every effort was made to prevent it from becoming more difficult to find out how many people died of hospital infection in Hungary every year. The MSZP has stressed in several cases that the primary way to treat infections would be to provide additional funding. Although the closure report describes the new protocols that entered into force in 2018 in this area, the effectiveness of this or the amount that the government has spent specifically on infection control, it does not mention, it only mentions that hospitals that are already understaffed have a lot of obligations to prevent hospital infections. We're talking about such simple things that there's enough disinfectant in a hospital for manual disinfection, hand washing, but you know that. A similar problem is that, although the government mentions the uniform official quality control of healthcare providers, it repeatedly votes against the MSZP's initiatives aimed at protecting health protection and patient rights. We can agree, fellow Members, that in Hungary, if we are talking about health care, we are talking about the problem of the whole population, from birth to death, about the state of health in Hungary. And when we talk about how to put health care in order, we must not forget that the feet of health services are protected by patients' rights, that the right of the patient is represented in Hungary, that I have the right as a patient, that I have where to turn or what I have to do at all. And that's when you have to tell them how many GP districts are empty in Hungary, how many people die in Hungary just because they don't have the right basic care on a daily basis. It is not the severity of their disease that causes these people to die, and here we are now talking about 30,000 numbers on an annual basis, but only that the basic service that your Fundamental Law lays down cannot be obtained by the citizen, because healthcare is in such a state in Hungary today. Now think about it. If we are talking about the fact that 30,000 people on an annual basis or, as Miklós Kásler admitted in 2019, that 24,000 people died in the previous year just because they did not have access to basic care, they were not in such a condition, they did not have such a serious illness that it would happen, but because of these shortcomings 24 000 people died, please note, my fellow Members, how many hundreds of thousands of people lost their lives during their administration in Hungary because they did not have access to the basic services laid down in the Fundamental Law! I would add that you know that in most cases we are not talking about a free service: we are paying this service system to the state for health, and you are not getting the Hungarian citizen service by paying for it. [[10.50]] The biggest flaw in closing accounts may be in this area, and I will return with a thought to patient rights. He's still in there, and we're going to discuss on Monday my re-introduction at the People's Welfare Committee meeting, so that what you have terminated in 2011 should be restored, because right now, during the epidemic, in the spring, we have seen the problem of being freed from beds, hospital evacuations, the existence of missed interventions. Now, though, there is an even greater epidemic in Hungary; I think that a government should also pay attention to these rights, because of its own citizens. The biggest flaw in closing accounts may be in this area. It has long been known here that I am talking about financing the care system, that health funding is done through an outdated and bad funding protocol, which is neither good for the patients nor good for hospitals, but in fact for the state. This poor funding protocol also means underfunded hospitals. The result is a highly ineffective healthcare system. It must not be forgotten that 2019 was the year and I repeat myself here again, where, for the first time, Minister, the number of people who die because they do not receive the right care. Bad funding protocols make it more worthwhile to hold on to Hungary today! Amputating a leg as a rescue. I bring up this example because Hungary had the highest foot impression rate in the European Union. You understand, don't you? It's more worthwhile for a hospital to be funded today, according to protocols, if that man, say, had a vasoconstriction, had his leg cut off because of diabetes, as if, say, a blood vessel exchange with a more complicated procedure and saved those people's legs. Similar things can be said about cancer, as the highest mortality rate in Hungary is in the European Union per 100,000 inhabitants. But here we could say high blood pressure, diabetes, and a lot of statistics. As I have already mentioned, however, this poor funding system means that some of the paid contributions and taxes of Hungarian citizens are lost, as they are not used in an efficient way, and in many cases they do not receive the service for the contribution paid. Hospital debt continues to be a problem, which was not solved by the 2019 budget despite the fact that the debt problem was known. Now we can talk, we can bring back how many years of problems we are talking about when we talk about the settlement of medical wages or the wage arrangement of health workers, but I will try to do that in a later speech. I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that since I came into Parliament this morning, I have not heard from my fellow Members that they have dealt with this problem so much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Because it's about closing hours.]] If we look at the surveys today in Hungary, what the Hungarian people consider to be the biggest problem, and this has been the case for years, this is not the result of the epidemic, it is not the result of the epidemic, we are not talking about 19; but the surveys of long and long years, two thirds of people in Hungary are constantly saying that the biggest problem we can face is the health situation, and precisely because of what I said to you is that the health situation from birth to death is accompanied by us. What we are now experiencing in 2020 is precisely what highlighted how unprepared we are for such an epidemic, how unprepared the government is. If we are talking about a budget and a resource allocation, let me say that today, too, when I read that we are going to separate a billion forints for space exploration from, say, investment in vocational training, believe me, this is an opening for all citizens when they read such things that you are still in space. I hope it's because they're going there. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-21-14	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-10-21-15	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Indeed, we are discussing one of the most important topics of Parliament's life and annual activity, since the government has to account for the spending of a great deal of money over the past period, how it has done so and how it has been done. If this process is to be characterised, I can actually describe it in three words, based on today, as a comment by the Government and the President of the State Audit Office. The first thing about this whole thing, the report, the spending on the budget itself, was the year of lost opportunities in 2019. Everything that is being reported is precisely because this situation has come to pass, and the Minister has talked about a lot of things, but the interesting thing is that he doesn't. So the big bullshit goes on in the process. The President of the State Audit Office intends to partially validate this in his report and partly with what he has said. Thus, with the compromise with which the State Audit Office will otherwise contribute to public spending, and only one or two examples will certainly be mentioned and already mentioned, which it ignores, I think that these areas cannot be done in this way. In the state of law, the State Court of Auditors, I think, should take a lot of steps or draw attention to what it is not doing today. After all, I think that if we consider this as a starting point, and this is perhaps something that we all should or might agree on, and that is that according to all accounts, more than HUF 20 578 billion was spent. With such a large amount of money, I think that all those who believe that in this process, when it happened, they have done something good in this, I think that if they tell me, they must be right, if that is all that is important. But from what I can tell, that's the only thing that's happening. In the meantime, they will forget all that could have happened differently in the development of this situation, and they could practice a self-criticism, instead of which you point to governments and older governments going back ten years, what happened then, instead of doing what they have now. One part of doing properly, for example, is that proper planning is being done. Every coin has two sides. They're both happy and happy that instead of the planned 4.1 percent, they're 4.6 percent, which means that, by the way, the Ministry of Finance was only 10 percent wrong about the design, which, I'm guessing, at the Ministry of Finance, can't be expected. [[To Banai Péter Benő:]] I see you're looking at me with doubt, Mr. Secretary, but that's the thing. For everyone who has to work with such precision, I think that not only what is missing, but what is surplus, it is equally necessary to account for exactly what really happened. [[11.00]] If, of course, we look at what is behind this, then, in my opinion, it is the underestimation of the processes that took place in 2018, which leads to a part of this, and in this way the joy of this design failure, in which you are embracing, after all, there is nothing wrong with this, that should be done, but face this situation. In addition, when we are talking about this HUF 20 578 billion instead of the expected HUF 19 580 million revenue, it should be added that after all of this, the budget deficit, which was planned earlier, did not decrease, but even increased. Now, while more money was spent, they would have had the opportunity, and this other important difference in thinking or thinking is that if they had more revenue, then, my dear Minister or honourable Secretary of State, they should not have spent it, but rather thought in advance that if there was a crisis, they could use those resources in a crisis. As they did not do so, and otherwise the crisis has occurred, there is a crisis, and they could not really help families or businesses in 2020. And here I was very forgiving when I said that they couldn't, because otherwise in a sense and in different areas I could say that they didn't want to help. That's what I think is a huge difference in perspective, which is basically here, on this stage or on that pulpit. Therefore, I think it is important and that we also need to talk about the areas that, I might say, Minister has been silent about and that he does not want to talk about. Moreover, what they are so proud of, which concerns the size of the budget deficit, they have actually made this worse, because according to the European methodology, they have become 2 per cent instead of 1.8 per cent of GDP. So it is not enough that the money has become more money, which, by the way, you could decide on the side of executive power based on government logic, and you have done it in such a way that it has not improved for the Hungarian people, and they have also made a mistake in this regard from a management point of view. Therefore, if I looked at macroeconomic budgetary developments other than appropriations, I think that if I had the guts to show the whole picture, they would want to, then I think that we should have expressed greater or more self-criticism, or even needed it, because instead we heard something quite different. Now, if we get to that point and I would like to emphasise this once again that, while we are talking about the course of the 2019 process, that is the end of this process, and we are in that situation, and I admit that the government's activity has not caused the economy to be in a very difficult situation this year, and let's just say that there is a crisis, the real problem is that you have not done anything for this reason in the past period. If the Secretary of State is proud of the previous year, because the 2019 was worse than in 2018 in this respect, but if he is proud of it, he should also be pleased to answer that if, in fact, in terms of the situation of the Hungarian economy, they were seeking to meet the deficit target, even if they did not succeed precisely, if, in fact, the reduction of public debt was not, in fact, successful, but they had the intention, in a situation where it could have been possible to reduce public debt instead of spending at the end of the year, it could have brought us closer to the solution that could have taken Hungary, Hungary's ship, to a much calmer port: what goes along with the introduction of the euro. And here is the next part of the big difference in view that the government and possibly the parliamentary majority in support of the government have made a political decision that, in the foreseeable future, you will not do everything you can to make Hungary a state in the euro area according to our previous commitments. As a result, they expose the fluctuations resulting from the crisis, due to the circumstances arising from the change in international circumstances, which is why I think that is why the trend you have made is bad. If I add to one of its elements, just partly, that, in the meantime, this budget was actually financed by pensioners, then it is certainly surprising by the hurraoptimism that you have, because inflation is almost 1 percent higher than what you have planned, and in this way even the circumstances, or the circumstances that have created a more favourable circumstance for you from the financing side, have been added to this. To the general judgment in 2019, I think it may be added that there was one thing that was done with that budget. According to established practice, the signature of the various budgetary institutions is included and includes a statement of acceptance for their part. 2019 was a dramatic event that you have done with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. They didn't have their signature for this budget, so I think that there should be more practice than self-criticism here, because the political decisions I referred to in a greater respect to the euro, and even an institutional example, you cannot be proud of that. Therefore, I believe that their draft law alone will not be eligible in this form. What is in the second package, in the second round, if we also look at the functional expenditure of public finances? I think it's possible to say what you're doing with a summary sentence. Everything you want, you want to decide. They want to spend everything in state-centred centralization, they want to put their hands on everything, and otherwise, this coincides with the political intention of abolishing power, in essence, in relation to the rule of law, in relation to the branches of power, so to speak, by doing so. One of the most spectacular procedures they do, by the way, is in the local government. One of the most important values of the change of regime, which we thought was that, yes, the people loved and demanded it, is an important pillar of democracy, which the local government represents. [[11.10]] It may not be necessary to provide all services in 3200 settlements, but it is quite certain that 3,200 settlements need to be able to decide for themselves what is important in their own environment. Moreover, you, among other things, are blocking this opportunity by means of budgetary instruments and are not helping. They not only do this work through budgetary means, they narrow down the possibility of making decisions year after year, but they also do everything in a regulatory way, with other laws, just the law before Parliament, to prevent this. In addition to one of these outstanding elements, if I mentioned the world of local government, I would like to mention one more thing here before mentioning some of the issues. President László Domokos said that Parliament must decide whether it is crisis management or change management that we want to do - Parliament. And I do not want to be a community in this, either in terms of terms or in terms of my answer, it is apparent that the parties of government and the opposition are in a separate opinion. This means, Mr President, I see that the governing party essentially believes that a change management should be carried out so that, as a result of the world's change, Hungary can, in essence, manage its own logic in an isolated manner, and try to consider this change unilaterally, rather unilaterally, on the basis of national state logic. While, in contrast, I believe that the global economic crisis shows that a country alone, if we were referring only to the economic consequences of the epidemic, could not solve it alone, could not solve it, and Hungary could not stay out of the line, whatever convergence programme the Ministry had prepared in March, and would have liked to, but I could say that we would have liked to have had its more positive versions or scenarios in place, it could not work out, but the economy would have fallen to 8-9-10 percent in 2020. And in this situation, I think it is obvious that there is a crisis and that the government is unable to manage this crisis, not only because this year and during this period it has not made the right decisions with its stalling decisions and inertia or inaction, but also that it has not used the favourable international situation in 2018-2019, its rising, increasing budgetary resources, to prepare itself for the crisis that you have repeatedly mentioned, which, of course, has arrived in a completely different and different way than anyone would have expected. You are not prepared for a situation like this, which I think should have been prepared by the government according to the rules of the economy. Therefore, the areas in which you think you have achieved results, which you believe you have spent well from these more than HUF 20,000 billion, may be correct in your reading, but in my opinion, it is not right when, in essence, the end result of spending is that the minority of people has benefited from your management, and the vast majority of them have lost this period. Rising inflation is a loss; it has been a loss that, in fact, in months, the forint has reached an exchange rate that causes us all the most damage, and I must say that what they have done in this way in preparation is not acceptable in this form, and there are consequences for 2020 and for 21 too. It is safe to say that, as a result of the crisis that has arisen, the 2020 budget has collapsed, rather than you need to submit a new one, which, by the way, means that 2021 cannot have a different fate, no matter how much you argue for it, and it is always considered important for it to be adopted in the summer. This acceptance, I do not even want to tell you that this haste, in your system, is happening this way, I think it is wrong, but the consequences are here: they are trying to solve it in daily management, instead of coming forward with the budget presented to Parliament and its amendment, in a democratic manner. I am not talking about the fact that the Parliament's dedicated, appointed body, in front of the Committee on Budgets, does not want to discuss these professional materials, either by the National Bank of Hungary or by the Ministry of Finance. In essence, they narrow down the possibility and debate of the opposition, along with the possibility of making proposals at a time like this, which may be linked to the budget or the accounts. Your philosophy of thinking, which I have been very critical of over the last few minutes, includes the social insensitiveness to mention another specific example that is usually there for children. With you, it is the family allowance which, I might say, is untouchable, let us quote it; it is untouched by leaving the value of the solution that helps all children in all families unchanged. I understand you're thinking of a different philosophy. I understand that you want some of the families to be preferred, but that is very disturbing, and I object to the fact that the budget revenues that we all pay prefer the few, and, as a result of their insensitiveness, they leave the majority at a disadvantage, which we today see not only in the market in Újpest, but in the markets and everywhere, in the difficult situation, in which people are abandoned. But let us also give an example of how their sensitivity and insensitiveness appear when defence spending was increased by HUF 156 billion in 2019, and since then we have seen what kind of political purchases have been made, whether from Germany or the United States. Dear Secretary of State, How many families of 156 billion forints would have been easier to live if they were more concerned about the possibility of raising the family allowance? [[11.20]] I think that the processes that I now mention in this way, as some examples, draw attention not only to the general criticism that those things that have been taken have not only positive elements in it; because they can build a pink dream world here, but also to say that Hungary has continued to be in a significant process in the European Union since 2018, because you are not, by the way, farming the way you should. I also understand that since you do not want to be part of the euro area, and because of this, as an outsider, this does not have any sanctions for you, you will raise your hands and say that you do not have to deal with it. It's just, you know, it doesn't work that way, and I think it doesn't work between the Hungarian people and the European Union. This is not the way in which, once we hit the palm of the hand and concluded a contract, it follows that we want to solve something together, and instead you will spit in the palm of others rather than otherwise cooperate and help Hungary in this regard. I'm sure there's a substantial difference in value judgment, just as there's a lot of money at your disposal here, and we can include not only the total amount, but the surplus that you've collected as a real good tax collection government, and you want to decide, and we're saying it's wrong, we shouldn't have done that in this respect. In this way, it should be left with people and left with businesses that can use it better and smarter. I think, and I will continue to say, that your tax policy, a single-key tax policy, is unfair. Although here is the proposal of the President of the State Audit Office concerning the introduction of one-digit personal income tax... if I understand correctly, there will be no progress in this lately. Thus, when they talk so much about tax reductions, it is partly true, and in part always add that by introducing new tax types, the same source is collected and apparently not only collected, but also taken away from people as a real tax collection government. The only problem is that this system is favourable to them, and I'm going to give you another example here, those big companies, they're going to make it look like they're going to have to pay a 9 percent corporation tax, otherwise, if we look at it, it's not going to reach 5 percent on account of the various benefits, while small businesses are not able to use the discounts. Therefore, again, not only in the families, but also in the lives of companies, they favour the few, the greats, the powerfuls, the Fidesz companies that are able to take out dividends, they benefit very well, and otherwise, from the pension of 80,000 forints, everyone should immediately pay 27 percent back to the Hungarian State every month, because otherwise you are preparing to make another government decision tomorrow on what they are spending on, otherwise they have only a general mandate from Parliament, but this is how they deal with redeployments. Isn't it, Mr. Secretary, your conscience, too, that comes from gambling tax revenues? They are the ones who paid less, paid less in 2019, just because of the discounts you gave them. So, while the casino kings are doing very well in your operation, they are benefiting from this whole story in this respect, with special benefits, while, as I mentioned earlier, pensioners who have to pay their taxes to the state through the 27 percent VAT, are still suffering from inflation as a result of their farming now, if I remember correctly, except for two countries, are the largest in Hungary, and they have done nothing to reduce their consequences this year. I believe that this is unacceptable, as is their spending of money, their spending of twenty-thousand-billion forints is unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-10-21-16	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-21-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, If you look at the 2019 budget and its implementation, you can simply describe this as the story of the cricket: irresponsible spending on unnecessary things with serious consequences.2019 was a good year in financial terms, and the last, for a long time. However, the government did not reserve or spend on important things that could have strengthened the foundations of society and the economy: it did not get a decent wage increase in health care, education, the social sphere, it did not have access to farm management to spare their resources, it did not have access to the assistance of small businesses producing on the domestic market, and it did not have access to or even reduced funding for environmental protection, which is outrageous. However, the government could have accepted the 2018 budget amendments of the LMP; then the crisis would have seen us quite differently; the new year would have found a more stable, more crisis-resistant economy and society and the public sector. For example, there would be hundreds of doctors and nurses at home who emigrated in 2019. That means many, many lives that could have been saved, and that's just one thing. Now, in 2020, when economic and thus public revenues have fallen, deficits and debt are going out, inflation is going up, there is a great need for additional resources and for economic and social funds to be sound and crisis-resistant. However, this is not the case, as the government has simply abducted the additional revenues from 2019, as well as the resources from the EU and the high revenues from the favourable global economy, in the previous years, and has put it in the pocket of its own business, spending it on unnecessary and harmful investments, from the Liget project to the Paks II through the Chinese railway to the stadiums and to the very harsh, unacceptable support of so-called sport, to the growing movement of the World Hunting Exhibition as a small ball. But the churches didn't miss the rain. However, the social sector, the protection of resources in the local government sector, water management, soil-friendly farming, education workers, health workers, wage increases started did not even cover many years of inflation. But let's start at the beginning, the main numbers of the budget. Nothing other than the general government deficit has been achieved from the main figures and forecasts of the budget. That's what they say in sports, in case they understand it better, it's a total blur. The main figures and facts compared to the original adopted budget: revenue, central sub-scheme 21 542 billion instead of 19 580 billion, this plus 1962 billion; expenditure in the central sub-scheme is 22 670 billion instead of 20 578 billion, this plus HUF 2092 billion; budget deficit is HUF 1128 billion instead of 998 billion, this plus 130 billion; government deficit is 1204 billion, GDP growth is 4.6 percent, inflation is 3.4 percent instead of 2.7 percent. The increase in the number of employees is 1 per cent instead of 1.5 per cent. Gross average earnings increase of 11.4 percent. The average exchange rate of the euro in 2019 is HUF 325.4 and the annual average of the forint-dollar exchange rate is HUF 290.7 instead of HUF 264.8. [[11.30]] We can say that the 2018 budget has been cautious, underestimated revenue and therefore spending, but we can also say that nothing has been hit, which is also a problem because the budget is not a guessing game, but a sound financial basis for the country's governance. The differences are visible and there are some probable causes. The first obvious reason is totally wrong timing, the practice that we often criticize is that the next year's budget will be adopted in the spring; they do so both without full knowledge of the previous year's accounts, without full knowledge of the closing accounts, and without full knowledge of the next year's processes, since there are still 8 to 9 months left of the year when the submission takes place. It is difficult to predict with the necessary accuracy for that long, so the numbers are outdated before the entry into force, and this is a slap to stability on a completely different basis. Of course, it is also understandable that the government is not concerned about this, that ad hoc governance, which is increasingly lacking in professionalism, is based on the fact that no one else is allowed to interfere in the formulation of the budget, only the Prime Minister and a tight circle, from this point of view it is unnecessary for others to know anything that, I think, is not okay. It also shows that the government does not give a damn about what's in the budget, that despite gross differences, the main figures have not been amended, in principle the budget is still being met on the basis of the false figures described at the beginning of 2018. The gradual shift to regulation governance, the government being able to redistribute increasing amounts in an increasingly large area without parliamentary approval, also points to arbitrary governance that would put stability in the background. This seems to be the main reason for the so-called under-planning, so that the government can have the extra income, distribute, and not even suffer the weak control limit that the Members of Parliament who are not too independent have. There is another trick, which is also behind the initial low numbers, that in the end you can announce how much more resources each area has received. We know that communication and its operation are an extremely high priority area for the Hungarian government, and of course we understand that it is often enough to announce how much more money has been spent compared to the appropriations, but it is important to see that in these cases the original plan is often lower, so the appropriation was lower than the previous year, that is, even after the increase, the funding will be only around the same level as the previous year. Health care is a good example of this, where it shows that the expenditure has increased by 200 billion compared to the plan, but the plan was much lower than the previous year, and what the opposition parties proposed in their amendments, and what is really needed, has been lost by hundreds of billions of forints. So much for the lack of planning and its causes. Let us finally see what the implementation of the budget shows, what more money has been given, what has been given less, and what preferences lie behind it! The biggest and most prominent increase is seen in entertainment, cultural, religious activities and services: 27 percent increase, plus 272 billion HUF in consolidated financial functional expenditure of public finances. In particular, an extra HUF 106 billion went to sports at the original 300 billion and, although not counted in the budget above 150 billion of sports tao, because the amount of tax breaks is not part of the budget, it is only indicated there. Health funding has increased by HUF 200 billion compared to the plans, but only by 130 billion compared to the previous year, and if you think that this is a 1700-1900 billion item, where only 3.4 percent of inflation, or 65 billion, is lost, the funding has increased by only 3 percent in real terms, which is little due to the underfunding that has existed for many years. The fact that hospital activities were able to plan 128 billion less after HUF 1011 billion in 2018 means that hospital debts have been regenerating in just over six months. What took hundreds of billions of forints back in 2019 was an extra 120 billion of legislative and executive bodies, plus 260 billion of financial and budgetary activities and services, i.e. the government spent a good 20 percent of the extra resources on itself and on its apparatus. The government debt management took a significant additional resource, plus HUF 116 billion, which was already a warning signal last year that the euro/forint exchange rate had harsh side effects. And there is no need to explain to us what the burden on the budget is expected this year, when the debt is gone, to all of us, especially to the next generation. The withdrawal of public debt financing is also worth mentioning because it has broken the trend for many years when this burden has decreased slowly but gradually. The situation in education is the same as in health care: hundreds of tricks show that 300 billion more have been made available to the area, but this is only 40 billion more than the previous year, which does not even cover inflation. Education continues to be bled out by the government in a self-destructive way for the country. The funding of the social sector has also increased slightly, but there has been no response to decades of deficits. What is the most striking and saddest of the macro numbers: the only large area where expenditure has been reduced in the context of general resource expansion is environmental protection. It is a shame that when on average the budget was increased by 10 percent, the budget was reduced by HUF 50 billion, i.e. 13.4 percent. After the general picture, let me say a few words about areas. In 2019, the NFA balance improved significantly, with an increase in employment. The NFA edition was reduced by HUF 33.1 billion, while its revenue was HUF 12.8 billion, or 2.8 percent higher, so the NFA balance was HUF 46 billion more than planned. Within NFA revenues, the increase in the title of direct operating income of VET increased by HUF 9.3 billion, while savings in expenditure were generated by NFA. Only 21,3 billion were spent on employment and training grants instead of the 35 billion originally planned. These numbers are a good example of what the government is doing wrong. The numbers are improving as a result of improved employment, but instead of investing profits, i.e. using them to improve human capital, they applaud them; instead of wage increases, which are investment in human capital and instead of improving employment and training, which would have eased the suffering labour shortage, they simply spent it on something else. In November 2019 a staff stop was ordered throughout the public sector, and not in the public sector as a whole, because this could have led to a very rapid collapse in health care, even though there was and has been a shortage of staff in all areas of the public sector last year, as a result of which the supply problems already threatened to make it work. Government administration has collapsed, there are many vacant posts in the social sector, the government has reorganized the entire sector, which is still taking place to this day, without consulting the representatives, but we are getting used to this from the Hungarian government. The structural problems in the economy have not been addressed by the government. While employment in certain sectors and in certain regions was almost complete, elsewhere they had labour shortages, jobs could not be filled. There are also very large differences in wages within the country, which, I think, is causing extraordinary problems today, and in the future, they are likely to escalate. One solution to these problems could be training, vocational training, retraining and education. Employment and training assistance will be financed by labour market programmes aimed at helping from public employment to the competitive sector, helping to enter the primary labour market instead of public employment, and fulfilling the EU's recommendation on the integration of long-term unemployed into the labour market, unfortunately, this has not been fully achieved. Although the number of public workers has decreased, their number is still at the rate of 100,000. The normal employment of public workers has been reduced, and it has played a role in increasing the proportion of those who are disadvantaged from the point of view of employability in the public sector, and it is therefore highly contradictory that the cost of re-training and employment support was 14 billion less than planned, and if there had been any remaining resources, it should have been transferred to the appropriations for vocational training and adult training within the NFA for the above-mentioned problems. [[11.40]] In 2019, restrictions on education continued. In 2019, the share of expenditure on educational activities decreased by 1.6 percent compared to the previous year in public finances, but the current figure was 41 billion higher than last year, which was the amount provided for additional support for university investments, scholarship programmes and the replacement of the PPP scheme of the Corvinus University of Budapest. The combined expenditure of school preparation and primary education and secondary education increased by HUF 13.5 billion to HUF 301 billion because of increased support for ecclesiastical, ethnical and private-funded institutions. The reason for this is, among other things, that in the course of the institutional reorganisations of 2019, the 12 district centers transferred 17 public education institutions to church and minority self-government reservations. The reception of maintenance rights from three district centers from church and ethnic local government maintainers affected 403 employees and 3090 students. In the context of the maintenance change, HUF 434.8 million was transferred to the initial appropriations of the Klebelsberg Centre in 2019. Other expenditure on education has closed with HUF 1089.8 billion compared to HUF 804 billion planned support. The funding of kindergarten care has improved to the extent required by the increase in the number of children, but not by a penny more. The wage support appropriations for kindergarten educators and educators amounted to HUF 178.8 billion, which finally increased to HUF 180 billion, i.e. HUF 0.2 billion. This did not mean a real wage increase, nor did it necessarily cover inflation. It can therefore be seen that there is a great need for a systemic increase in resources in education, along with a reduction in labour costs. From educators to support workers, school psychologists, education counselors, everyone works for burdened, depressed wages, and they have the fate of our children, the future of our country in their hands. What does the government expect? That their kids will get good education in private schools? What about the other hundreds of thousands of children? Unfortunately, we have reached the most shameful part of the 2019 budget: what about climate protection and energy policy? Where's 50 billion forints of quota money gone? According to the 2019 accounts, the country is nowhere near the desirable climate and energy policy. Paks II and related dubious developments have been spent more than 100 billion forints, while energy efficiency and renewable energy are barely supported. A complex building energy programme of HUF 300 billion per year would be needed, which would create tens of thousands of jobs. While there are many articles on energy efficiency, they all contain very low amounts. In the green economy financing system operated by quota revenues, only 20 billion were spent, while the country's quota revenue was 74 billion. What happened to the rest of the money? In exchange for the mining concession fee, the University of Miskolc has received money to investigate the re-opening of coal mines. It's like we're discussing the closure of the 1979 budget, not the 2019 budget. Really! The assets of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund increased more than in previous years, but there will still not be enough money in it for the 2030s, when Paks I. should be covered for the demolition and treatment of waste. As far as health is concerned, the government's objectives are set out in the strategy of the Healthy Hungary 2014-2020, which includes improving the operational efficiency of health care, maintaining health, improving the human resources and the prevention capacity of the healthcare system, and strengthening basic care and optimising patient road management. Therefore, the activity of the health sector in 2019 was specifically aimed at improving the health status of the population, ensuring disease prevention, early detection, treatment and patient rehabilitation with equal access. On the other hand, it is visible and noticeable that healthcare, specialised care, orders are being interrupted or patients are being received with deadlines that threaten their recovery. The dysfunctional functioning of public-funded care leads patients towards private service providers, which puts the poorer at a disadvantage. While the private sector is growing, public supply is gradually falling apart, with an increasing burden on labour shortages. In areas where there is no GP, the risk of premature death is twice as high as in areas where there is no GP. There are 440 practices currently empty. With the 150 percent funding surplus, only the previous lack of the GP's register has been worked out and thus slightly corrects the poor situation of the primary care doctors at the time. In the case of health care, it is typically observed that institutions are trying to achieve the highest health gains with the smallest effort. In Hungary, patients prefer hospitalization and hospitalization, although their treatment could also be managed in the framework of general medical care. With the modern equipment of GPs, the basic care could be increased, a greater burden could be removed from hospitals and clinics, but the prestige of GPs needs to be restored. For example, interventions have taken place in the case of emergency care, and plans are being made to strengthen basic care, but health policy has not yet been brought forward by regulations relating to the Basic Supply Act adopted in 2015. There is no attention to the transfer of resources, to ensuring equality, and social mobility is not working. As a result, the health of the population continues to deteriorate. The effectiveness of prevention programmes does not reach the desired level. A strong example of this is the higher consumption of tobacco and drugs in disadvantaged regions, less healthy food and more cancer and respiratory disease. Social security funds closed the year 2019 with a deficit of HUF 234.9 billion, consisting of a deficit of HUF 107.2 billion from the Health Insurance Fund. This can only be managed effectively by means of systematic transformation, the renewal of all health care and the restructuring of the social security system, as confirmed by the above data. In the case of expenditure, the statutory appropriation was lower than the expenditure on disability rehabilitation benefits, while, inter alia, the amount of drug subsidies allocated to the financing of pensions was higher. Invalidity and other rehabilitation programmes are of increased economic importance, as in addition to improving mental health and physical health, rehabilitation requires less care, care and a higher proportion of patients can return to work. In addition, every Hungarian citizen has the right to live as fully as possible. A number of aid manufactures are in a close-up situation, so only a few people are trying to continue to care for patients, disabled people and people with disabilities. The medical aid system is on the verge of collapse, as the price of medical aid has remained unchanged for 15 years, while wage increases and the increase in the euro price have led several domestic producers to the limit of their inability to operate. They cannot develop, modernise for these reasons. There is a need to raise and standardise social security support, to take into account the large-scale access of people with disabilities to innovative aids and to improve the quality of care. In the area of health, the budget has spent 8.9 percent of public expenditure on the provision of benefits and the functioning of the institutions. This is 0.2 percent lower than in 2018. It is essential that adequate financial resources are provided for the operation of the institutions in the health care sector, starting with the amortisation of diagnostic instruments, through a growing shortage of professionals. In addition, hospital debts did not ease at all, by the end of 2019 the hospital debt was about HUF 80 billion and continues to increase unstoppably. Indebtedness includes additional expenditure due to a small-scale wage increase, for which the government also did not create the original cover, and a wage increase is necessary, but such an increase in wages and expenditure does not solve the shortcomings in health care. [[11.50]] If the financial losses of the entire circle of healers are not compensated in proportion to immediate and expected losses, the workers can be prepared for mass exodus and exit, but the biggest losers will be the patients to be cured. With regard to health, I must add one more half thought that you are very proud to announce the wage increase that has just been launched, which is subject to rather specific conditions. But let's face it: if you had read the amendments tabled by the opposition only in the last three years at the time of the budget negotiations, you would have seen, for example, that LMP has proposed that the government spend hundreds of billions more on general wage increases for healthcare workers in the last three years. Of course, you didn't listen to anyone because you didn't consider those sitting in opposition benches as partners in the Parliament. But I think the fact that the doctor's wage increase is only now is a disgrace to you. I think what we can basically say about the final accounts for the 2019 budget is that it perfectly shows the worldview, the ideology that you are following, and which, unfortunately, is not in the interests of our fellow countrymen here, but is typically in the service of their own narrow economic and political circles. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-21-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman Mellar.
u2020-10-21-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, With regard to the 2019 accounts, of course, we should talk about the previous year, but it is clear that we cannot pretend that nothing has happened since then. If we look at the events, we can see that the events of 2020, which are linked to the viral crisis, put 2019 in a completely different light, its assessment and assessment. If we didn't know much about what happened in 2020, then we could also think that 2019 was a very successful, very good year, because the economy grew by 4.6 percent, the wages of the workers grew dynamically, the budget deficit was as planned, it met the Maastricht criteria, it was below 3 percent, 2.4 percent precisely, the debt/GDP ratio fell from 69.1 percent in 2018 to 65.4 percent, so everything was nice and all good. However, if we raise the other similar set of figures that are likely to come up at the end of 2020 we will get a completely different picture: GDP is likely to fall by 6-8 percent in 2020; the budget deficit can reach 7-9 percent of GDP; the debt/GDP ratio will be 77-78 percent by the end of the year. I am not saying these things, the Minister of Finance said, and the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets has mentioned them on several occasions. So what happened? We can say that all this has happened to us, and this is a sharp turn of events because there is a global economic crisis. This is undoubtedly true, and this has a very important role to play. However, it is very important to see and perceive that such a significant difference, which will take place between the two years, has not been seen as an example of the 2008 global economic crisis, either in 2009. So here it is necessary to say a few words about the fact that there are two things here: on the one hand, that the Hungarian economy still has a significant vulnerability, and that the government has implemented a wrong fiscal policy and budgetary practice in the last year, which has contributed to this whole thing. Besides, my colleagues have already talked about this, just like Antal Csárdi and László Varju, who before me, so I am in a bit of a difficult position to repeat, but at the same time in an easy situation, because it may become more understandable what I wanted to do. Well, let's take a look at the closing account, the closing account number 19, what the closing account means. It means that the plan and fact data should be compared, compared. It has also been said that if we compare the plans and facts, then we can see that almost nothing has been achieved as described in the plans, or that only one thing has been achieved, and this is the size of the general government deficit, which has been achieved exactly as it was described. But this failure does not merely mean that it was due to some random effect, accidental factor or external shock, because this derogation is a systematic derogation, which is clearly indicative of what kind of economic policy the government is pursuing, and in particular what kind of fiscal policy the government is pursuing. Let us see how this HUF 1200 billion deficit was achieved, which was included in the plan! It has been achieved that the total revenue of public finances has increased by HUF 2300 billion, and accordingly the expenditure side has also increased compared to planned. If we look at the public finances and the budget narrowly, this difference in the budget is HUF 2000 billion, so the budget has increased by EUR 2000 billion, but the budget has also spent it in its own hands, spending it without asking for a parliamentary mandate or submitting an additional budget, just as it has not done in previous years. I will then read the report of the otherwise independent State Audit Office, where I will read in the summary the following, quote:. In the implementation of the 2019 central budget, legal and competent persons managed the public money properly within the financial framework set out in the 2019 budget. It's hard to imagine what would have happened if they hadn't managed these public funds properly. I would like to ask the President here what a percentage difference the SAO will eventually have to make, something in particular, because the 10% deviation from the budget plan does not seem to have been sufficient. [[12.00]] Fortunately, however, there are other organisations that are looking at the whole issue of what the budget looks like. Here I would like to quote the biennial report of Open Budget Survey, which covers 117 countries and has been monitored in 2019. Hungary received 45 points from the possible 100 points in which it was evaluated. The right level would have been 61 points, from which, I tell you, we were able to score 45 points. No country in the European Union has scored as low as we have, and in Europe only Northern Macedonia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have scored behind us. This Communication also states that this means that taxpayers are increasingly less and less able to receive adequate information on the use of our common money and that they should have any indirect say in their spending. These are pretty harsh words, and I think it would be very important for the Ministry of Finance to pay attention to these Open Budget Surveys as well, and try to shape your practice in such a way as to achieve at least the 61 points that are still not excellent, but can achieve at least the right level. Based on the experience of the past two or three years, the way in which the budget planning of the Orbán government, the implementation of the budget and the report on this work can be roughly put together. The whole exercise is very cleverly built, and its aim is to disincentive the fiscal law, while at the same time negling Parliament's decision-making and control role. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] How does this whole mechanism work? Once again, my fellow Members have already indicated this, but I also underline this, the first thing is the adoption of the spring. The reason why the Orbán government adopts the budget law in the spring and has its representatives adopt it in the spring is because there is not enough reliable information yet, statistical data on the fact that it is realistic to judge what the macro-track looks like, because there is no closure from the previous year, and the current year has just begun, and so the next year is very, very much in the air. But this is done consciously, precisely because it is not possible to account for later how unrealistic the planning of the budget was. The second important thing is that it systematically and intentionally underestimates inflation and the exchange rate of the forint; both can be viewed in recent years, so it does. Why are you doing this? Because if inflation is underestimated and inflation is significantly higher than that, then this is an inflation tax. The government always claims that they do not levy a new tax, no, just the inflation tax, for example, and that the inflation tax is a tax that hits the poor much more than the rich, and that there is no way to get out of it, everyone has to pay. Obviously, the inflation tax works in such a way that if inflation is higher than planned, revenues will increase, while expenditure will remain unchanged, which means that expenditure will decrease in real terms. And the forint's exchange rate is underestimated and then the spin-up of the exchange rate itself, which results in the MNB having an exchange rate gain, and the exchange rate gains can also be mined into the money that can be spent. But, of course, it should be added that on the other hand, the losers are the Hungarian citizens who lose the real value of their income on the one hand and their wealth in international or foreign relations on the other. Similarly, economic growth is regularly underestimated by the government, but here it can be said that there is a great deal of uncertainty in economic growth, so there is a sense of caution, although I think that may not be the case. As a result of the underestimation, so when revenues are underestimated by the government, it follows that there is a kind of surplus, and this surplus is not being used, for example, to reduce public debt, but to use it in its own power, as has already been said. If you had used 2000 billion in 2019 last year to reduce debt, this could have improved the debt-to-GDP ratio by 5 percentage points, i.e. we would have been able to start this year at around 60 percent, and we should not now say that 77-78 percent of debt/GDP is expected by the end of the year, but obviously less. This practice is accompanied by government economic policy and, of course, fiscal policy, which stimulates the economy in a pro-cyclical economic policy, i.e. in a relatively good economic period, will boost the economy, and, unfortunately, it will overturn this economy. As a result, the growth rate of the economy will be high, of course, but this is not a natural growth rate, but a forced growth rate, and it also follows that this economy will surpass its reserves of capacity, at the expense of all reserves, and therefore, if it does not have a reserve that can be mobilised later, it is obviously difficult to adapt to the external shocks that are emerging, including the crisis. So in peacetime, pro-cyclical economic policy is a sinful story, because it exposes the economy to the problem, the problem that this economy cannot react in a crisis. Obviously, if the government had conducted a countercyclical policy, it would have been in a much better position this year when this great crisis came in, and I therefore think that we should not say that today, and I would like to refer it back to the remarks made earlier by the pro-government representatives, in which the crisis in 2008-2009 was compared to today's crisis, so we should not be talking about the fact that today is actually the same situation, that the Hungarian economy is in the same situation in 2020 as it was in 2009. After a 6.9 percent reduction in GDP in 2009, a 6-8 percent reduction in GDP is expected, then 80% in debt/GDP ratio, now according to the Minister of Finance, a 77-78 percent debt/GDP ratio is expected. So the saying that the Hungarian economy has grown stronger and stronger and more crisis-resistant in recent years is strongly rebutted by the facts. Unfortunately, we cannot support this, and this is also painful, because in previous years the Orbán government has had the great historical opportunity to receive significant EU support, because from 2013 onwards, if we pool EU aid in proportion to GDP, this can be estimated at least 45%. In comparison to this, the result they have achieved is very thin and very few, because unfortunately the Hungarian economy remains highly vulnerable. Turning budgetary policy to parts of the budget, I would like to say a few sentences on the revenue side of the budget, a few thoughts, and then on the expenditure side. On the revenue side, the same is apparent as in previous years, that the most significant and the largest of the revenues are VAT revenue. 4500 billion of this has been made on this branch, with a much lower share of the income, which is about half of it, only HUF 2300 billion, and much less corporate contributions, since the companies only paid HUF 1500 billion in total. [[12.10]] If you look at corporate tax payments, that's even less than 303 billion. Here, the plan was not met, because the budget planned 399.5 billion, so it does not even amount to a tenth of VAT revenue anyway. What's the problem? What's wrong with the government taxing consumption and not income? Obviously, there is a practical reason for it, because it can better capture and register consumption, and less income than that. However, there are two fundamental problems that must be dealt with, because this is the result of this practice. One is that with this practice, low incomes are hit by low incomes, because low incomes pay more taxes than the rich. Why? Because they spend, consume, and save much less of their income. Since they tax not income but consumption, the poor people therefore pay much more taxes and thus do not comply with the principle of public burdens. The second is that artificially low entrepreneurial taxes encourage entrepreneurs and foreign entrepreneurs, of course, to produce and bring in products with low value added, non-competitive products, techniques and second-line techniques and technologies, as this low profit tax can actually bear this, so it does not encourage modernisation or modernization at all. The second thing that can also be seen on this page is that instead of direct subsidies and aid, the Orbán government is very fond of using tax systems and tax credits, tax waivers, tax incentives, and even trying to solve social problems. Known, more people have told me that the family allowance has not increased since 2008 and has not changed, but in 2019 the state gave up 291 billion forints in the form of family benefits. The question is again, what's wrong with it or what's wrong with it. In any case, the fundamental problem of this type of solution is that it does not ensure equal opportunities. For families and people who do not have high incomes do not have the opportunity to benefit from tax incentives, and therefore the children of unskilled, poor families will find themselves in a very, very difficult situation and cannot emerge from this destiny, from this existence, so you can preserve a particular social structure and social structure. Turning to the expenditure side of the budget, it's back again, and in recent years, it's been the same, that the government has always paid enough money for the state's operational functions. This was also the case in 19 and the operational function of the State increased in proportion, and the economic functions also increased. In return, of course, the losers were welfare functions, and welfare functions were able to reach a lower level by 1.6 percentage points compared to 2018, while participation in the other two functions was able to increase. Similarly, we must continue to consider education and health as losers. Although the documents show that more was spent on education and health in 2019 than planned, it also shows that this is nominally more than the 2018 expenditure, but not in real terms. If you look at the share of budget expenditure, you can see that even compared to 2018 there has been a decrease in both areas. Finally, as regards reserves, it is worth mentioning that, in fact, these reserves, such as the National Defence Fund or extraordinary government measures, are labels that are not worth taking seriously, because they will not be used at all for what it should be used for. For example, from the National Defence Fund, 28 billion is rightly the goal, only why the Hungarian village was used for this programme, and the Hungarian village programme also received a significant amount of the extraordinary government measures; but then it has all the hunting world exhibitions, Hungarian space exploration and other things like this. By the way, my favourite is the purchase of the image Renoir: Festive nude [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Extraordinary government measures. I've been trying to think about what makes this kind of action extraordinary. In other countries, such images are usually collected by rich private people, but it seems that this is also a public task, and it must be an extraordinary government measure that triggers or demands it. Well, in conclusion, with regard to the budget and closing accounts, I can tell you that there are three lessons to be learned about government practice. The first is that revenue is systematically planned and adjusted to do so. This, in turn, is an in-built austerity policy in itself, as it adjusts expenditure to the planned revenues. This is a continuous and silent austerity policy, while the government is always talking about not being squeezed by them. This in itself is a built-in austerity policy, because if revenues were to be measured in a realistic way, they would be able to set expenditure higher in the first place, and I have not yet talked about the fact that the revival of inflation reduces budgetary allocations in real terms. The second important lesson is that the surplus that comes out of this sub-planning is its destiny and its aim is to create room for manoeuvre for the government, a room for manoeuvre which, without control, allows these funds to be spent, since it does not require a separate budget committee and does not need parliamentary mandate, but the government can spend it and could see very well and can still see what kind of perverse targets the government is financing in this way and without any actual control options. The third important thing is to have a particularly harmful and faulty pro-cyclical economic policy in peacetime, because this will take the space away from economic recovery in times of crisis, from the introduction of a truly effective and truly effective crisis management programme. The great lesson of 2019 is precisely this, which, unfortunately, was confirmed in 2020 that the Orbán government was very weak and weak in crisis management today because in 2019 instead of having a countercyclical policy, it had a pro-cyclical economic policy, including a pro-cyclical fiscal policy. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-21-20	Thank you, Member, and welcome to my fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. [[12.20]] Dear House, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. So I give the floor to the Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Odbora za narodnosti u Maddarskoj i u svoje ime Vas s poštovanjem pozdravljam! Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and on behalf of myself, I would like to welcome you and inform the National Assembly, as the advocate of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, that our committee is responsible for implementing Act L. of 2018 on Hungary's Central Budget for 2019. and the T/13098/1. At its meeting held on 19 October 2020, the Court of Auditors discussed the State's report. Following the parliamentary elections in 2018, there was a change in the governance structure in the area of nationality. With the exception of Roma nationality, twelve nationalities in Hungary were transferred from the Ministry of Human Resources to the Prime Minister's Office and the Roma nationality to the Ministry of Interior. As a result of the changes, the support of local and national minority self-governments in the 2019 Central Budget Act remained in Annex 9, but the appropriations were broken down as a result of the membership of the two chapters. In 2019, two ministries and two ministers became responsible for the national minority policy in Hungary. Compared to the draft law on the 2019 central budget, thirteen Hungarian nationalities submitted a total of HUF 4 billion 620 million of justified amendments. Following the assessment of the legitimate and well-founded needs of thirteen nationalities in Hungary, we have focused our attention on five areas of focus aimed at focusing the 2019 budget support on the future of our nationalities, the maintenance and development of our institutional infrastructure, the education and education of national teachers, as well as on the appropriate education and education of our children. In the preparation of the budget for 2019 and in the political decision on the total amounts of appropriations, the Parliament took into account the opinion and the reasons of the minority committee. For the 2019 budget year, we requested an increase in support for five areas. These are: 44 percent of the funding needs have been requested to ensure the investment, renovation and tendering of the building and construction stock of the national authorities and the institutions they maintain. In the case of support for national minority self-governments and media, an increase of 20 per cent was required and of 10 per cent for institutions maintained by national authorities, given that there was no increase in support in 2018, either in national minority self-governments or in institutions maintained by them. The third important area is the implementation of the second step of the national minority educator programme, which started in 2018, according to which the nationality allowance for national minority educators increased from 15 to 30 per cent, and the increase and improvement of the quality of national education education was ensured in a separate framework. Nine percent of the increase in funding aimed at increasing the funding framework for national minority associations, organisations and schools. Finally, there was an increase of 10 percent in the operating support of local minority self-governments. Among other things, we have done so in favour of 27 thousand pre-school children who have received national minority education and nearly 85 thousand young people in primary and secondary education. The future of this 112 thousand children receiving national education and education has been a priority for ensuring their national rights. In addition, we continuously protect and manage our institutions and cultivate our traditions as a careful host. The reasons for the closing accounts before us show that in 2019 56.2 percent of public finances were spent on welfare functions. Within public finances, expenditure on educational activities and services amounted to 10.8 per cent of expenditure and functional expenditure on entertainment, cultural, religious activities and services represented 5.9 per cent of total expenditure. The proportion of expenditure on cultural activities and services increased by 0.2 percentage points, which can be explained primarily by the support of the sub-programmes of the Hungarian village, as well as by the organisations of performers and arts and other cultural developments and investments. I note here that in 2020 we made it possible for the Hungarian village to include minority small settlements as well. Within the function group of educational activities and services, the combined expenditure of school preparation and primary education and secondary education increased from HUF 287.5 billion to HUF 301 billion compared to the previous year, from HUF 2776.6 billion to HUF 291.7 billion. The increase in resources mainly occurred on appropriations to support the tasks of ecclesiastical, ethnical and private public education institutions. The support for the 2019 appropriations in the function group of faith activities amounted to HUF 67 billion and its expenditure was HUF 70.7 billion. Compared to the previous year, the significant decrease of HUF 58.9 billion was primarily due to the planned year 2019, but it was also due to the transfer of funds at the end of 2018 and the start of investments in previous years. The additional grants made available provided, inter alia, an opportunity for religious communities to cooperate for Community purposes. In addition, in 2019, special attention was paid to the development of the infrastructure of the ecclesiastical institutions and the continuation of the investment started. In this context, nationalities were also supported. It also had significant resources in 2019 for the protection of church-built heritage, community programmes and investments. For other Community and cultural activities, the 2019 expenditure was HUF 55.7 billion, while the support was HUF 37 billion. This function group includes the National Cooperation Fund supporting the functioning and professional activities of civil society organisations and, in addition to several individual grants, a number of civil society organisations. According to a summary of the State's report on the control of the implementation of the 2019 central budget, the budgetary revenue and expenditure data provided in the 2019 discharge law proposal are reliable. The structure and content of the draft closing act are in line with the legal requirements. In 2019, the legal rules on deficit and public debt were complied with. In the implementation of the 2019 central budget, the legal and competent persons within the financial framework set out in the 2019 budget have properly managed the public funds. I would like to highlight two aspects of the SAO report and their findings. [[12.30]] The first is the examination under point 2, which aims at ensuring that the draft discharge act provides a realistic presentation of the financial data, information on the implementation of the budget and whether the performance data of the revenue and expenditure appropriations contained therein are reliable. As stated in point 2.1, the performance figures for central management appropriations entered in the central budget are reliable. Expenditure related to local and national authorities' grants is reliable and the total value of the established reliability errors has not reached the materiality level. The examination under point 3 was aimed at complying with the legal requirements in the performance of the revenue and expenditure appropriations of the central subsystem, the adjustment of appropriations, the establishment of the budget balance and the compilation of the annual budget accounts. As stated in point 3.1, the central management revenue and expenditure appropriations forming part of the central budget have been carried out in accordance with the legal provisions. Expenditure on local and national authorities' grants has been incurred in accordance with the legal requirements. Overall, the SAO notes that the errors found during the audit, recorded in the letters of notice, did not reach the materiality level, so that the reliability of the data contained in the draft closing act was not affected by the regularity of the implementation of the central budget as a whole. It can be said that nationalities were provided with the resources necessary for their operation during the 2019 budget year, which helped to ensure the balanced functioning of national minority institutions. The provision of budget support has contributed to the survival of Hungarian nationalities in Hungary. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes to adopt the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-21-22	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Péter Benő Banai wishes to respond to what has been said so far. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable President of the Court of Auditors, Dear Parliament, I could say that I have a feeling of déjà vu, because every year, when the government reports on the implementation of the budget for the previous year, we get similar criticisms as we do now. It is a general finding that overall economic and public finances have evolved better than planned, that, well, these good figures can only be regarded as production reports, hurraoptimism is what closing accounts show, we are living in a pink dream world, and otherwise nothing is right. Overall, I have to say that, thank God, there are data that are different from preconceived data. Thank God economic growth is bigger than we thought. Thank God that the number of people employed increased more than we assumed when we adopted the 2019 budget. Thank God, and I also think that it is all due to our work that real incomes have increased more than we thought. In these cases, the closing accounts are indeed different from what we saw when the budget was credited. And sometimes there's permanence, there's factors. Thank God, year after year, we saw the sovereign debt ratio decline, and we can maintain the public finances position. I think, in joining Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, that a closing report, a presentation of an economic document, should, in principle, be about numbers. Therefore, allow me to repeat what the 2019 discharge law proposal shows. In terms of economic growth, we calculated 4.1 percent, but instead it increased by 4.6 percent. In particular, investments increased by 12.2 percent compared to the planned increase of 7.5 percent. Household consumption increased by 4.2 percent compared to the planned 3.9 percent. Employment: the number of employees in the competitive sector increased by 2 percent rather than by 1.9 percent. In the public sector, we expected a slight decrease of 0.3, but more people from the public works programmes, the Start work programme, were able to pass to the competition sector, so a 3.8 percent reduction was achieved in the public sector. As I said, actions have also increased to a greater extent than we assumed. Net average earnings increased by 11.4 percent instead of 8.8 percent. It is true that inflation has also become slightly higher than planned: 3.4 percent instead of 2.7 percent, but the increase in net average earnings is well above this. If I calculate correctly, real earnings increased by 2.6 percentage points compared to previously planned, so net average earnings increased much more than inflation increased. I believe that in this respect, that the numbers are different from the draft, from the opposition benches to the government and government factions rather, I think that they should have received recognition instead of scolding. I think that if the prognosis of the opposition had been achieved, we would not be talking about such numbers. As a critic, I heard that the government consciously underestimated revenue and then used additional revenue. I do not recall from the 2019 budget debate that anyone from the opposition benches spoke about the fact that they did not like to plan well, to raise the economic growth prognosis, and to raise the revenue expected on this basis. I heard the exact opposite. So if we had listened to the opposition representatives who are now critical and said that the design was not good, that it should have been more accurate and that we were taking over their prognosis, it would have been a completely different process. Excuse me, I would have liked to have said at the time that the Hungarian economy was so good in terms of economic growth, not 4.1 percent, but 4.6 percent, and accordingly more revenue and more expenditure. I do not remember such observations when the budget was adopted. Allow me to respond to some specific points. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that the economic policy, which was also drawn from the closing accounts of last year, serves only the right-wing, national capital in his words, in fact the multinational capital. Congressman mentioned the bank tax as an example. Let me say that if I say that this economic policy is right-wing, by which I mean that it is thinking in family and nation, then it is also reflected in the support of our Hungarian brothers across the border in terms of budget figures, family support or now in connection with the Trianon anniversary. This was no different in the 2019 budget. If you mean that this economic policy does not put national companies in position, let me argue with that statement. As far as the tax system is concerned, there have also been allegations that small businesses, known to be in domestic ownership, pay a great deal of tax, compared with multinationals, are extremely popular and are less tax on predominantly domestic-owned small and medium-sized enterprises than other taxes. As far as banks are concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in Europe, the government elected in 2010 and the factions supporting it were the first to accept the introduction of a bank tax. I also draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the one-off HUF 50 billion item mentioned by you, the bank tax is an integral part of the tax system, which should be paid this year and next year. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that I think that if we measure patriotism or national economic policy in terms of what the ownership structure of businesses looks like, then, for example, a number of banks in the banking sector have become national property, national ownership. I can mention the purchase of Budapest Bank, the partial acquisition of Erste shares by the State or changes to MKB Bank. [[12.40]] As regards Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's comment that employment figures, statistics distort, government distorts, I ask the Member to argue with Eurostat, not with the government, and not even with the KSH, because employment data must be taken into account according to uniform principles and common practice in all EU countries according to the European Union methodology. Based on this uniform statistics for all countries, I can tell you that in 2019 and in previous years, the Hungarian employment rate increased to a high degree at European level, in parallel with the decline in unemployment rates. In addition to employment, wages have repeatedly said that the tax system is distorted, since lower earners pay more taxes. I've got the statistics in my hand. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát was right to pay taxes on all earnings today, even after the minimum wage. On the one hand, I must point out that tax evasion was a well - known form of tax evasion before, that someone was earning a minimum wage on paper, and that they got their salary in pocket, and that they did not pay taxes on the minimum wage. In addition, my important point is that the facts show that the real income of employees at minimum wage after taxation and after inflation has increased radically since 2010. If I look at net income alone, a minimum wage with no children earns more than 70 percent more in terms of net earnings now than he earned in 2010. Depending on the number of children, this number increases as appropriate: a family with three children has a net average income increase of more than 100 per cent. As regards the exchange rate, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and Professor Tamás Mellár also referred to this, unfortunately he is not in the room, but I would like to add once again that the government does not have an exchange rate goal. There is a technical projection in the current budget laws, which means that the average price of the previous period is indicated. Why not? We don't want to influence the markets, the forint floats freely. Undoubtedly, the exchange rate of the forint has weakened in recent years compared to, for example, the euro. But why? Just because there is a global economic crisis that you have mentioned, a global economic downturn, the economy of all the Member States of the European Union is falling back. Unfortunately, Hungary is no exception to this, which is an open economy, and as part of this process, the exchange rate of the country in the region, which is still classified by many as middle income or is classified as middle income on the basis of statistics. Please take a look at the change in the exchange rate of the Polish złoty, the change in the Czech crown or the changes in the foreign exchange rate in other areas. With regard to pensions, the Member also referred to the fact that the decline in exchange rates is falling in prices, resulting in higher price increases, and that the real value of pensions cannot be preserved. On the one hand, let me say factually that pensioners received an additional pension increase in November 2019. If we look at a longer time horizon, the real value of pensions has increased by about 10 percent compared to 2010, thanks to the fact that, when inflation is over-planned, the State is living with a supplementary pension increase, and when the expected inflation is lower than planned, it will not take back this amount from pensions. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal for a discharge law before you shows that the state paid a pension premium in 2019, as well as about HUF 9,000 of pension certificates for some 2.6 million persons who received pensions and pension benefits. In the case of family support, the congressman, if I quote correctly, used the terms "dishonest tricks" and "statistical lies" in terms of what expenses are included in family allowances. These terms, allow me, Congressman, to refuse. Let me say, on behalf of the author, that all data are data reflecting the reality of our best knowledge. If the Member thought about what items of family support should be taken into account, a good professional debate could be held on this. My statement is that if we take out the people who retire with 40, which you should count for outside of family support, the amount of Hungarian family support is still high in Europe. And the question of philosophy is who we account for in the family circle: parents, children, or grandparents, who, in our belief, are an integral part of the family, and indeed, women's 40, has meant for many families that grandparents can help parents raise children. Let me note here that although the closing report is not about demographic debates, the Member mentioned the number of live births. We all know that this depends on two factors: on the one hand, the number of women of childbearing age and, on the other, on the fertility index. It is quite difficult to increase the number of women born in the 1980s. So what can the government do? It takes measures to help children bear a child financially with the aim of not having children as a result of poverty, on the contrary, and we see that the fertility rate, thankfully to God, is increasing. We are a long way from being above the two, but, Mr President, I ask you to acknowledge, on the basis of the facts, that the factor of living births that economic policy and social policy have had an impact on has been moved in a positive direction, I think, also thanks to the measures taken by the government since 2010. On two general remarks made by Congressman Gyula Molnár, allow me to react. One of the comments was that the positive economic figures were due to the global economic economy, the EU's money. In fact, we have been hearing this since 2013, but if that were the case, then why is it that Hungary's growth has, after all, exceeded the EU average, and in countries that could also, in principle, benefit from economic activity, I am thinking, let us say, of the countries in southern Europe, who have been net beneficiaries of the European Union budget for over three decades since their accession, we have not seen such an increase. If it were true that an increase was due only to what the global economy economy and the Member State received EU funds or not, then we would see that these southern countries, I do not want to classify them, soar, but we know that unfortunately that is not the case. The other general point was about social inequalities, which, in the opinion of the Member, is also reflected in the closing report. Allow me to argue with this. Our conviction is that the main channel for social mobility must be work. The figures show that in 2019 more people lived from work than in 2018, and that everyone who lives from work has an increase in income, as well as the income of those in the lower income categories of those who work has increased significantly in 2016 thanks to the wage agreement. Thus, since 2016, the income of employees at the minimum wage, guaranteed minimum wage, has increased more overall than the national average. I would like to thank Mr Gyula Molnár for pointing out the technical aspects of the discharge proposal when he recalled how public operating expenditures increased and how welfare expenditures developed. What I would add to what the Member has said is that the increase in the state's operating expenditure is largely due to the increase in wages for those employed in central administrations. So it is not simply that the state spends more on itself, but that there has been a wage increase in officials. I recall that when the 2019 budget was debated, this wage increase was not criticized from the opposition benches either, the 30 percent wage increase was made, and I would add, in this round, the last of the public sector employees, because the government first started raising the wages of healthcare workers in 2012, and then in 2013 the education and all areas followed. As far as welfare functions are concerned, the fact is that in 2019 the state spent HUF 1280 billion more on welfare expenditure than in 2018. Let's see what the internal structure of this thing is. Education expenditure has also increased nominally, health expenditure has also increased nominally, there has been a minimum nominal increase in unemployment-related expenditure, and thanks to God, the Hungarian economy has increased more than these expenditures. That is why, Mr President, you can see local comparisons where, let us say, there may be a reduction in expenditure in proportion to GDP. [[12.50]] But with regard to education and health, which has been mentioned many times, the average of several years in comparison will increase nominally and in real terms, both health and education expenditure. I would only respond to the comments of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély on two items. I would like to say, in fact, that funding for GPs and basic care increased in 2019. For example, the support of GPs increased by HUF 520,000 per month over several years. As regards the problems of the health funding system, I always agree with the findings that we still have a job to do in addition to increasing expenditure, beyond that in the area of health, but the congresswoman made a very serious statement, she said that instead of saving legs, more legs are amputated in Hungary than is necessary. I think that he said that the Hungarian doctors would rather cut off the leg than save it. This is, therefore, a serious finding regarding the compliance of doctors with their oath. I do not assume that doctors will deliberately cut off people's feet, but, unfortunately, I assume that the rate of diabetes in Hungary is high, and that it can really lead to vasoconstriction, and I assume that we need to change in this area. For example, this is the goal of the introduction of daily physical education, and the changes in lifestyle that lead to a reduction in the number of diabetics. Member László Varju, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, has also made very serious findings. I am not honoured to defend the State Audit Office, but he said that the SAO is also a partner of the government in the misrepresentation. Here, I would remind you that President Domokos in his expo said that there were some problems with 41 budgetary bodies. I thank you for that. I don't think everyone's perfect. I don't think there are mistakes in places. I think that this Court's President's statement shows that the Court of Auditors is doing its job, and I must also say that, together with all this, the President of the Court has said that the bill is well founded and that the data are reliable. This is a finding with which it is difficult to argue, and if a representative or anyone of the leading speakers is arguing that the figures are real, I must also say that they are also arguing with the international organisations evaluating Hungary or with actual financial investors, because these institutions and organisations see that the data of the Hungarian economic policy are reliable, which is why there is confidence in the Hungarian state, which is why we can now sell sovereign debt at a normal, even particularly favourable price level in the current crisis. The President said that self-criticism should be exercised, that proper planning should be carried out, because he believed that it was a 10% mistake in terms of growth. I hope that this also applies to the President of Self-criticism, because from opposition benches it was not said that growth could be higher, but that it could be smaller, so we may have been wrong. I think this is called conservative, cautious planning, but if self-criticism is to be exercised, I would ask the chairman of the Committee on Budgets to do the same. There was no saving, we couldn't help. I would like to draw attention to the fact that HUF 1400 billion is lower than planned this year's tax revenue, due to the fact that the negative budgetary impact of the economic downturn is not offset by the government and even decided on tax reductions. As for the expenditure side, I don't know what you mean, Mr. President, when you say the government isn't helping. Compared to the HUF 922 billion transfer within the budget to the National Defence Fund, we have already made a HUF 2000 billion payment for businesses. What if it is not to help businesses to dampen the negative effects of the economic downturn and to keep as many jobs as possible? We are in a worse situation than in 2018, we were in 2019, Mr President said. On the basis of the facts, I can see this as an increase of 5.4 per cent in 2018 when the EU average of 2.1 per cent in 2019 is only 4.6 per cent when the EU rose by 1.5 per cent. Especially now, I have to say, never worse years. Mr President said that the debt reduction was not successful. Instead, the fact is that, compared to the 69.6 percent debt ratio assumed at the time of adoption of the 2019 budget, I can now report to you that its debt rate has fallen to 65.4 percent. Congressman, Mr President has said that we are not prepared for the crisis. In the debate on the 2019 budget, we were just discussing that economic cycles will end sooner or later, which is why we need a country protection fund and a lower budget deficit. We have prepared, although not for such a health problem, but thank God, the Parliament did not accept the proposal of opposition representatives that the reserves should be zeroed out, which is why the sum of HUF 378 billion of the National Defence Fund was the first to be available in the defence against the crisis. With regard to the comments made by Congressman Antal Csárdi that we did not hit anything, I do not want to repeat myself to stability. Please see how Moody is thinking about, let's say, the Hungarian economic policy. Since the crisis, credit rating agencies have shown themselves 200 times from different countries, of which there has been more than 100 downgrades and, to my knowledge, there have been less than ten positive movements. One of these is to provide Hungary's debt classification with a positive view by Moody. I repeat: if you are debating what economic policy was like, then I ask you not only to argue with the government, but also with the State Audit Office, but rather not to argue with them, but to accept the opinion that is formulated by organisations independent of Hungary. Mr Tamás Mellár also made very serious findings, pointing out the Open Budget Survey statement regarding the transparency of the budget and its various comparative indicators. Let me tell you that we know the organization exactly. This is not a coincidence that the word "open" or "open" is used to describe the Open Social Network. I think you know who your funders are, but let's see what this organization does. It has also been said that we are producing one of the worst indicators of the Union in terms of structural transparency of the budget. This report is not an official document. This report does not take into account the Member States of the European Union. This report was drawn up on the basis of a subjective opinion of a Hungarian organization. The Hungarian partner, the organization that gives data about Hungary, should look at its website and look for it, for which orders were given by left-wing party foundations. So it is relatively simple to discover the political thread on this issue. I'm sorry if I've gone a long way, but there's one more thing I'd like to respond to. Congressman Mellar said that we had a pro-cyclical economic policy, and in terms of the real economy, this meant that everyone lived up to their reserves. I cannot understand this from the point of view of the real economy, of businesses. If there has been excessive demand for companies in the industry or service sector in some areas in recent years, this excessive demand has resulted in an increase in income and an increase in their reserves. Pro-cyclical countercyclicality can be interpreted from the point of view of public finances. Public finances are now just countercyclical, as due to the economic crisis, we are generating demand for businesses with this larger deficit and now increasing public debt. [[13.00]] As a matter of fact, we would be in the same situation as we were in 2009: this is not exactly true. If I only said public finances, I would remind you that ten years ago we were in an overdeficit procedure, Hungary was not loaned; in the financial situation at that time, it was just that the government could not help businesses at that time, but implemented austerity measures, it was procyclical; and our debtor rating was somewhat different from now. I think there is a difference between heaven and earth, which is why we can now pursue a completely different economic policy, because we have established the economic basis for this in recent years, including 2019. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-25	Mr President, Dear House, A compliment and a review. As a matter of recognition, Mr Secretary of State, because he is taking part in the debate, it is not typical of your government. But I continue to appreciate that if anyone dares to draw that particular sword. A criticism: if a person is concerned with your health policy, where appropriate, with unworthy or justified criticism, he does not necessarily express an opinion on doctors. This Bolshevik-type rhetoric, I ask you not to take over from your government as a highly prepared professional, because you cannot be criticized recently because , who scolds the dear leader, you are scolding the party and communism on grounds of throwing these balls back at the affected. This is a despicable thing if we are to engage in substantive political debates. The Minister of Finance, on the other hand, expressed his joy at the transaction fee that a transaction fee would no longer have to be paid under a certain limit. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to explain in the following words why they are not doing anything against the net transfer of the transaction fee of between 150 billion and 200 billion. The financial institutions concerned acknowledge that they pass this on, even after having collected the transaction fee on paper sent by letter to small businesses. We also see that in return, one of Europe's most expensive banking systems is being maintained in Hungary, especially for the low-income retail segment. And we also see that the profit rate of this banking system is roughly double the regional average. So there is a Canaan of banks in Hungary, so it is a valid question why a government claiming to be national and patriot does nothing to protect our own countrymen. I think that the 1.0 step that follows from any national sentiment would be to stop these unreasonable and otherwise insurmountable processes, to protect Hungarian customers, consumers and our countrymen from those who are already enjoying Paradise conditions in Hungary. Thank you.
u2020-10-21-26	Thank you. We now have further speeches from Members, ladies and gentlemen... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I just saw it. For two more minutes, I will give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-27	Thank you, Mr. President. I have tried to listen to today's debate and there have been some shameful, insufferable political manifestations to which we must at least react briefly. Thank you for being here, Mr. Secretary. He resented the government's lack of politics in the interests of the nation. Let me just give you one example, Mr Secretary of State, we have discussed this: this year, during a serious crisis, you are spending 85 billion on the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, on which you could not say anything about how this can be justified for Hungarian national interests. Instead of presenting these documents, they were encrypted. So on this basis, I think that the fact that the government is doing its job in accordance with national interests has failed. On the other hand, Minister Mihály Varga found that the crisis should not be dealt with with with austerity, so why use such severe restrictions? You can see that yesterday we had a long debate about this, that car tax revenues had been deducted from the municipalities, that they had taken 35 billion forints, and especially small settlements were put in a very difficult situation, even though there were enormous extra tasks for settlements that were already in difficulty at the time of the crisis. The government has withdrawn from the maintenance of Community transport and this can also be seen as a very serious restriction. Twenty billion forints were taken from universities without any justification. You can see that this has been a major blow to the university sphere. It can be said that rural universities, which have been affected by these occasional billions of years of austerity, will certainly not be able to maintain all training in this form. I did not, on purpose, mention any restrictions on political parties; I think that no one has raised their word, although we can clearly see that this was actually just a crumb, not a result. So it can be said that you have indeed experienced brutal austerity during this period of crisis, and on the other hand, gigantic projects whose return cannot be justified in any way have not been stopped. The already mentioned Budapest-Belgrád railway project will only be spent this year and next year as much money would be enough to create 175 thousand new jobs. I believe that this cannot in any way be regarded as a responsible government behaviour. Thank you.
u2020-10-21-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Then we will now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Zsolt Szabó, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Listening to the debate here, one thing was very positive about the closure of the 2019 budget: all opposition parties acknowledged the question that the 2019 design, drawn up on the basis of the principle of caution, was completely good and worked perfectly. Directly, indirectly, this was heard from their thoughts, heard from the thoughts of the professional. This means for me that if such planning is in 2020 or 2021, we can maintain the same stable and good budget. If you look at what is good and working anywhere for the region, for the country, for a given settlement, then for the first time people always say that job creation, then roads, roads, sidewalks, inland roads, then there are different institutions and tasks. I believe that this order is reflected in all discussions, ideas or surveys, in the 2019 budget these elements are everywhere and can be traced. Over the past period, watching the debate here, we have received some budgetary strategic advice. One of these councils, which was said, was a Council to reflect for a period of 2003, so that what we have in the budget could spend everything and even more. We know this didn't work out; we can promise to keep our word for a year, but it doesn't work in the long run. And I'll get back to you on that later. The other strategic budget council sounded to take out loans, take out funding, expand public debt, increase it, and keep the various elements from it, because we know that there is a need for development, that we need to settle wages, and that the economy needs to be speeded up and moved forward. This did not work either, which marked the period 2006-2008-2009. And there was a new element that I was surprised to hear today, and I have never heard anything like this, that if there is a surplus in the budget, we should not spend it on wage increases, not on development, not on innovation, but on stockpiling and saving. I believe that this basically violates the rules on budgeting. What do I mean? At one time there was a status-like planning period, which means that it was possible to predict in advance what would be, say, the euro exchange rate in three years' time, and a budget plan could be well put together. But we must forget this, there is a process now, and we must always respond to current tasks and economic movements. I remember a conversation in June 2002, two bank managers negotiated with each other; we remember that was when the forint was widened. Everyone expected that the forint would weaken, and then they would have to gain economic benefits, for example by strengthening exports for Hungarian companies, and increasing the number and proportion of investments coming from abroad. This was not the case, the forint did grow stronger, it did not weaken, and as a result, many Hungarian companies and companies were destroyed. Now to plan a budget that is fixed and status-like, permanent, can not be; obviously, every movement that is created must be responsive, be it a Covid crisis, be it an economic downturn in tourism for example, or be it an innovation task. I know one thing: when large, prestigious multinational companies continue to innovate in Hungary, investment, production unit comes to Miskolc, factory unit is built in Debrecen, the country's economy is stable and investors trust Hungary. [[13.10]] Some specific topics for the budget. One is investment, business, expansion and development for Hungarian companies. The tax and tax relief structures of the corporate tax law that have existed in recent years need to be looked at. I would refer here to development aid, which can be counted as a tax reduction factor. I would refer here to the fact that 65 per cent of the settlement potential exists in six years in regions that are deemed to be caught up or to be economically stimulated. I would point out that energy efficiency investments are also supported to this extent by the tax regulation up to 70 per cent of corporate tax, and I would point out that innovation developments and interest on investment loans have been highly supported and supported by small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe that such investment and investment support in tax matters will certainly help and promote job creation. The other topic of family policy is this eternal thought. What makes family policy good? Why is what we're doing good? I would only draw attention to one thing. It must be seen that in settlements where ageing, the migration of young people and the lack of jobs have always been a problem, there are no properties for sale at the moment, and this is true for a large part of Hungarian settlements, especially rural settlements. It is precisely family policy and family policy support that help young people to stay on the ground, to present a fresh workforce, which is very important and to think about their future there. I believe that, as long as family policy can help to this extent, all Hungarian families, I think we are heading in the right direction. The second issue is the question of municipalities. There is always a question of withdrawal, what we took away, how and what we did, what budget means, what it helps, what it doesn't help local governments. I would like to say on the basis of the opinion of the municipality, the local government leaders: the municipalities thank you very much, they are well, they work and work. Where there is a problem, there is always the government's help. The Ministry of Interior's State Secretary for Local Governments helps and works at any time. You have to look at just a comparative number to say, ten years earlier, how much municipal bankruptcy there was, and now how much there is. No municipality is able to plan its budget financially, economically, and not to maintain it in a stable manner. Obviously, we are striving for perfection, we have not yet achieved it, but I believe that there are stable farming authorities, and mayors or even representative bodies can justify this process. What's interesting is that there are issues where obviously there could be any amount of money or possibility, but we can deal with that again, and it's working again. It's a matter of pensioners, pension values. From the surplus of the 2019 budget, older people who are already retired and have created the basis for it, because they created this farming, they receive development, wage growth or pension growth. Real value increased by 10 percent, not only did we keep it, but we expanded it, so the pension premium was paid in 2019. I believe that such a budget, such a closing account, can be said yes. The last topic I would like to discuss is the issue of health care and, above all, the question of territorial care, regional doctors and theirs. I've had the pleasure of talking to a lot of regional doctors over the past few years because of the legislative changes. On the one hand, they are very pleased with the urban development, tool development provided by the Hungarian village, and with which the Hungarian government has created interior renovations or building renovations and health center constructions from various possibilities. What is very interesting is that financial items have not been raised in recent years. They believe that it is a very good thing that they can maintain their medical care independently and consider it to be functional. I think that as long as their thoughts are at such a standstill, there is only one thing that we really need to deal with, so that as many young people as possible go to the doctor, and that we can provide as much as possible supplies, medical care. Once again, and I said this thought: we are striving for perfection, but we cannot achieve it, we cannot achieve it, and therefore we are doing everything we can with regard to the budget. If I may, I would like to conclude by mentioning something that I think we should face and think about in all budgetary terms. Maybe the neighbor's budget is better. There may have been more wage increases in some areas. There may still be some delays, but one thing is certain: if the grass of the neighbor is green, then let us learn that our grass should also be green, and let us try to be optimistic about this idea that this budget is a good foundation. Over the last ten years, it has been a continuous, forward-looking budget, a good basis for 2020 that we need to take over. After dealing with the process economically, financially, we are always prepared to deal with any issues. I think one thing that is very important is that we can keep those wage arrangements, wage increases and here I can list any specialty in this area, whether it is protection, law enforcement, education, health, the social sector and, overall, all areas of public finances, we can maintain it. The Hungarian budget will provide sure protection that these wage increases, in which we agreed strategically with the different fields of expertise, can continue to be maintained. As long as this budget is in place, and as long as the budget can ensure it, I think that we can vote for such a closing account with a calm heart. I ask this House to accept the closing report, so that we can close the 2019 budget and turn to 2020-2021, helping the government to carry out this task. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-10-21-30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Louis Korózs, representative of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-21-31	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to touch on two things in my speech, partly in relation to pensions, the pension fund and family support, but allow me to say in return, Mr Secretary of State, that my colleague Ildikó Bangóné Borbély raised the question of amputations. I didn't ask for a demonstration, but I did look it up. [[He shows up his cell phone.]] There is no accusation that Origo is an opposition portal, he published an article entitled "The hospital is more worth cutting off its feet than saving it. Three times as many amputations are carried out in Hungary as in the other countries of the European Union. Hospitals do not usually receive as much support for so-called reconstruction medal surgery as the intervention costs. In addition, this was also dealt with in the pro-government press and refers to hbcs, which is the financing scheme for homogeneous patient groups. I don't read it, let me have one sentence:. The institutions are not economically interested in treating patients with vascular diseases. I also had this speech last year, I'm not sure it was related to the budget closing, but I mentioned how much more meaningful it would be to support treatments in mofetta than to cut off legs. Besides, I now see that there are no vascular surgeons in the country, or at least very few, because this service has been terminated in several places. Well, I'll get to my own thing about pension matters, and therefore allow me to take off the mask, because I can see that you're distorting a lot. [[13.20]] As last year's budget is accounted for, last year's closing accounts have been estimated at around 2.7 percent of pensions in the budget, and we now need to establish year by year that inflation is underscheduled every year. Speaking last year in the budget debate, I pointed out that this 2.7 percent set inflation rate was also incomprehensible, with which the budget planned to raise pensions, because the National Bank had already calculated much higher inflation, and I recall that the National Bank had planned an inflation rate of some 3.4 percent. Nevertheless, the fiscal law was not amended, and in the end, a miracle had to be seen by 3.4 percent in November. This 0.7 percent difference meant that nearly HUF 23 billion was held back by the government, with practically that amount of money the pensioners financed the government for 10-11 months, as this amount did not have to be paid to the government from month to month. There's another item that I can't pass without saying a word. You must also know, Mr Secretary of State, because you have been dealing with the budget for decades now, that there is a grant of different appreciation within the pension system. In the past, when he had social security and had a local government, every year when planning the budget, the social councils, listening to interest representatives, trade unions and elderly organisations, formed the framework for pension-setting out of equity, the possibility of raising pensions from equity, and there was also the possibility of a so-called one-off aid every year. These allocations, because that's what they're talking about, have been frozen for many years, a little bit of these amounts don't move. The equity pension is now planned for a total of HUF 200 million each year. In fact, when I looked at how much money was spent on this item, nearly HUF 200 million, HUF 197 million were spent on it. I stress that there is a budget here. However, when I looked at how many people asked for a pension increase in equity and how many had received, how much had been realised, there was a large difference of magnitude: 2423 people required, and all 1037 received. The explanatory statement did not reveal to me that they simply were not aware that they would not be entitled to establish even a fair pension, that is what I am talking about, and that they do not have, let us say, sufficient service time, or have earned much of their service elsewhere, and, let us say, on the basis of the pro-rata principle in the Member States of the European Union, we already know clearly that there is a method of calculation, on this basis they will be established, and thus refuse to establish a pension from equity. It's different with the equity increase. Here, too, the budget has been 800 million forints, and some 788 million forints have been realised. More than 53 thousand people have applied for fairness to the Treasury, because now there is no TB, they have to be submitted to the Treasury, and those who have turned with such a claim have received only 62,6 percent of the increase in equity compared to 53 thousand at 32 915. One-off aid also shows a rather strange picture. There for years, 600 million forints is the envelope that this construction has. Here a little more was translated, 615 million forints. However, the situation is the same here in proportion: some 46 165 people made a request and received a total of 32 756. Last year, we proposed that the budget should not even be amended, nor would it affect the pension fund that does not exist, but we looked at some foot to find out where it could be financed, whether the equity increase or the one-off aid. Perhaps one-off aid is even more needed than an increase in equity, for countless elderly people are in an unexpected situation, whether it is a disease, a persistent illness, or the loss of a companion, and the financing of funeral expenses, where one-off aid is needed. On the other hand, there were bills paid in the previous year. Several people referred to it as this 9,000 forint. We were shocked to see or hear it from the news... because we never received any relevant information from the government, we usually have to turn to the government with public data requests, but there were times when we had to bring the matter to trial in order to obtain data. For the record, the latest stock statistics for 2017, available on the Internet, I am talking about pension stock statistics. And wonder, from Alaska to Australia, from New Zealand to South America, when everyone knew that they wouldn't cash it, there's nowhere to cash it. Don't tell me that the Hungarian citizen living in the south of Australia, but of Hungarian origin, may receive a Hungarian pension or part pension, would be dependent on the three times three thousand HUF return. It turned out from the public data request that 28 thousand people could not actually be paid, could not be handed in, and the sum of this was more than 250 million forints, and, hold on, it cost more than 50 million forints. When we looked at the differences regarding the redemption and enforcement of the certificates, it turned out that some 48,000 people had not even cashed these certificates. There, too, remained 433 million HUF 433 million! Just for the record, this is almost two-thirds of the amount that can be paid for a one-off benefit. As a result, I also think that the HUF 12.2 billion that was spent on the voucher could indeed have gone to a much better place and could have been improved or corrected afterwards. In addition, this is also the year we took advantage of this opportunity, as it is now apparent and I have repeatedly said that in my view, we believe that the method of raising the pension following inflation has failed. Since 2017, it has been clear that pensions have been drastically cut off from wages. Unfortunately, the formula now appears to account for about 50-52 percent of the average net wage. This was well over 60 percent a few years ago, and I even risk it, perhaps in the area of 2009-2010, reaching the 70 percent rate. That was 52 percent last year. It is clear that this inflation-following pension raising technique preserves virtually all pensioners' situations. A person who lives on few pensions or who lived on few pensions last year virtually means that he will live on very few pensions next year too, because they will only increase his pension by as much as the rate of loss of money, by the rate of inflation. Moreover, it can be seen that the consumption of pensioners differs from that of society as a whole. In their consumption, for example, food represents a much greater weight, housing rates are higher than that of the population as a whole, and precisely the factor that increases inflation is the increase in food prices; 7.7-7,8 percent is now an inflation rate of over 40 per cent per month, but in certain products, I am talking about the perspective of one year, of course, not the previous month. But in general, meats are nearly 10 percent, milk, dairy products are close to 8 percent, and I am talking about product groups, of course, not one product, with such rates, 8 percent for dairy products, and the Hungarian Central Statistical Office measures an inflation rate of around 10 percent for meat. [[13.30]] As a result, this means that our low-retired, low-retired compatriots are in a very difficult situation, and even though we are submitting proposals, the pro-government representatives in the Commission section are rejecting it, and we do not see a chance of drawing up a pension correction programme to catch up with low pensions. They do not want to move towards mixed indexation, and I am not talking primarily about the Swiss index, where 50 percent of the planned inflation and 50 percent of the net wage increase are taken into account, but some mixed indexation, where wage increases would be taken into account at least. As a result, fellow Members, I think that there is something to be done here, too, in this area. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time, so I can only comment very briefly on one thing about family support. These days I read a newspaper article, an economic newspaper article, and he says that this newspaper article is not supposed to be related to a left-wing or liberal page, that the government spent 62 billion forints less from the central budget in 2019 under the title of family subsidies than in 2008 the closing accounts were presented. I'm telling you, I'm just gonna see if he's right or how the hell this is, I'm here every year, and I'm looking at the budget numbers. This analysis says that in 2008 he paid 461 billion out of this budget budget in the last full year of the second Gyurcsány government and in the year before the global economic crisis, while the fourth Orbán government had only 399 billion in its first full year and before the economic crisis; the numerical reduction of the amount was huge and 41 percent cumulative, this is the aggregate inflation, so taking into account the increase in prices the difference is much greater. If this is the case, then it means that, if inflation is taken into account, the 2019 level of family support paid, together with the children and the family, did not reach the 2008 level, but, together with the tax reduction, Fidesz increased the amount of family support in real terms, the public finances, as I see it, increased by two and a half times over the 12 years, of course, from 9000 billion to 22.7 billion. increased to HUF [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In the meantime, the amount of family support did not increase nearly by two and a half times. Thank you very much for your attention and for your patience, Mr President.
u2020-10-21-32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zsolt V. Németh, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! If we look back to 2019 after decades, then I believe that the pre-plain peace year will remain in our memory. I say it deliberately, that the year of peace, and not that it is the last year of peace, trusting that what we are going to do now is a lightning war, and we do not have to settle for the epidemic to last. If we are thinking about this year of peace, then I think that we are thinking of growth, because this is when the projects started, because the operational programmes started, and I would not be talking about these programmes, but about a small, but important programme, the programme of the Hungarian village, because it is innovative, it is also different from the previous and EU programmes, and there was no example of a government programme focusing specifically on smaller settlements. The government is committed to increasing the number of people living in small towns, improving their quality of life and, in this context, developing these municipalities. The program was developed after a wide-ranging dialogue, since the developers consulted the local governments, the representatives of interest groups and the relevant ministries. The Hungarian village programme has become a complex program covering social and economic objectives that provides a development program lasting for a decade, together with an opportunity to develop for settlements below 5 thousand people. The programme started in 2019, which affects more than 30 percent of the population, more than 91 percent of the settlements, and its main objective is to increase the population-preservation power of this local community, to strengthen the lifestyle of small settlements, and to help housing. The programme was introduced by a unique, targeted government intervention in this local circle. During the Hungarian village programme, it is possible to alleviate the disadvantages of small settlements, including providing access to services, public services to meet basic needs, and to develop improvements that make these settlements attractive to the people living there and those wishing to settle down. It also aims to provide immediate intervention for small settlements and to give people a chance to grow in the future. With the support system implemented through the applications, this is one of the large areas, the development of the side road network, the other and the third, the village CSOK, the introduction of which helps to continuously improve the living conditions of people living in small settlements. I'd like to talk to you about the tender system first. The success of the Hungarian village programme is confirmed by the data of 2019. 97.4 percent of 2873 small settlements with a permanent soul of less than 5 000 people applied for a sub-programme of the program, so we can say that almost all settlements with a population of 5 thousand and less have applied for at least one sub-programme. The calls for proposals were issued with a 100% aid intensity and non-refundable support, and the Hungarian Treasury did so, and I would like to point out here that the grant decision is fast, and the advance insurance will solve all the problems that will indeed arise in other tendering systems. In 2019 the application system of the Hungarian village programme provided a development opportunity covering 16 target areas, during which 5321 winners received funding from 2397 settlements. On this basis, one municipality won on average two sub-programmes. During the year of its launch in 2019 the Hungarian village programme provided nearly HUF 60 billion for the sub-programmes, and the payments were fully paid in 2019. Proposals are typically implemented this year on the basis of the approved supporting documents. It is no coincidence that I chose this area as the subject of my speech when the budget was closed, as 125 of the 127 settlements in my constituency were affected by this programme. Let me give you just a few examples here of the numbers in the constituency, as there have been a number of applications, by number 118 winners, supported applications in my constituency: for medical devices on 19 and 8 municipal roads, for pavement building on 10, for the development of local church community spaces 20 people have received support, but also for kindergarten yards on 9 people, for equipment for the maintenance of residential public spaces on 5 people, for farm and village care services on 8 people, for service apartments on 2 and for kindergarten development on 4 to raise only a few; and the figures show that this year there will be a much greater support circle. [[13.40]] The other area is the village road base, the importance of which cannot be emphasized enough, since we usually talk about motorway constructions, but it is always the four-digit, the fourth-order roads on which we arrive home that we spend the last few kilometers there. The quality of four-digit trips is therefore in the least indifferent. In 2019 and this year, the village road fund will be renovated with a value of 122 billion forints in some 900 kilometers of lower road section. The grant contracts were concluded with Magyar Kút Nonprofit Zrt. The goal to be achieved within the., as part of the Hungarian village programme and as part of the road renewal programme, is to improve road conditions as far as possible on the national side road network. To this end, in addition to renovations of full width and over several kilometres, large surface refurbishing technologies should be considered. I'd like to give you some examples here. In my constituency, eight sections are renewed for 16 kilometres, worth more than 1.6 billion forints, and there is also a series of so-called large surface repairs. In five places, road sections improve at a length of 13.5 km. Finally, there is the third area in the program of the Hungarian village, the so-called village CSOK, which was defined as an amendment to the regulation on family home creation benefits for the purchase and expansion of the used apartment, so it is governed by the rules of the general CSOK. This Regulation entered into force on 1 July 2019 and applications for aid may be submitted by 30 June 2022. The aid can be used for expansion, modernisation and extension and modernisation of existing dwellings combined with the purchase of apartments in the area of farmhouses, estate centres or preferred small settlements. The introduction of the village CSOK is a motivation that provides extra support for parents and couples thinking about settlement, if they want to start a family and raise a child in a rural environment, not a city. Up to HUF 10 million may be required in the case of upgrades combined with the purchase of used dwellings. And, of course, the various subsidies, such as interest subsidies, can also be classified, which together make rural settlements attractive. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't start my speech by breaking up the Covid epidemic for a reason. What's that got to do with it? We could list for a long time why village settlements and villages need to be strengthened, but I believe that the Covid epidemic itself has brought a new argument into this line. Let me mention here the idea of Péter Mihályi, an economist close to SZDSZ, who said about a decade and a half ago that the village was a medieval tradition, why it should be saved, and declared the settlements under 300 people unviable. Then a lot of people ran ideas about what settlement size is really the smallest burden for the Earth in terms of the ecological footprint. I believe that the Covid epidemic has made another argument, because it can be shown that, in particular, in the first wave of the epidemic, Hungary has done better not only because of the excellent government measures, not only because of the good health system and not only because of our discipline, but also because of the settlement structure. It can be shown that in this country, where there are no major megapolises, where a large part of the population lives in villages, small towns and small towns, there is a greater chance for people to live. Not only can you survive the plague there, but you can also live in it. So, when the Hungarian government provides resources for the program of the Hungarian village, it not only improves the quality of life, it not only promotes demographic change, but also strengthens the kind of settlement structure that does not advance in a possible world where we have to live with successive epidemics, it gives Hungarian people the greatest chance of life. With this line of thought, too, I propose that the draft discharge law before us be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]]
u2020-10-21-34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As we are now at the general stage of the closing debate, and I see that there has been an abundance of directives and speeches on the part of the Government and its fellow members of the Government, I would like to respond in particular to them. And, of course, I also look forward to a detailed debate in which we have the opportunity to include ourselves in the ex-post evaluation of the budget for each chapter and policy area. I would like to start by saying that Minister has highlighted some settlements that have started to develop significantly. I think this is fundamentally right, because the development of our cities and villages is essential for the development of our country. Among these settlements was Kaposvár. I do not dispute that the economic and infrastructural development of the city has been exemplary and has indeed made great progress, but the current economic strategy designers and social organisers have a greater role to play in the case of a city. At the county seat in Somogy, the NER was finished before the country, but talking to the citizens of the city as democrats, it soon turns out that the cunning fear has been in control for ten years now, and that the city's management is only concerned with the citizens who are members of the political and social group moving with them. This is also the case with our fellow citizens benefiting from social and economic benefits from the central budget. I think, Mr Secretary of State and fellow members of the Government, that the Orbán government has become a government of the few, and this has also been shown in the 2019 budget. In actions, you have become the government of those whose votes are held, if at all. In words, of course, they want to be the government of all Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, but at the same time, if you look at the central budget, this looks quite different. I would like to mention some of these examples in my speech. Among the first, there is the family home-building discount, which one third of society cannot use, even though they would be the ones who would primarily be very thirsty for home-building support from the central budget. They are members of the less fortunate social groups. But here, as an example, the government is proud of the work-based society, but the poverty of its workers is unparalleled in our country, not just those who are participants in the public work programme. There is no need to respond to the crisis with austerity, as said both Minister and Secretary of State, and that is all right, and as a liberal, I can very much agree with that. I must say that, although we would have macrodata and economic and social conditions that would allow non-keynesian economic adjustment packages to be implemented here at home, unfortunately this is not the case at the moment. I note that the international economic environment was favourable until the outbreak of the coronal virus epidemic, that there was no substantial economic barrier to growth programmes in this sense on the world market or on the international market, so I myself have been critical of the fact that, in the planning of the budget in the last few years, and in the discussions of the closing accounts, our countrymen who need it most do not benefit from this economic growth. President László Domokos stressed that the 2019 budget created a stable basis for crisis management. [[13.50]] I have been concerned about the process in which the combined increase in inflation and unemployment has begun to be covered by the domestic statistical register, and government communication has marked it as a non-existent or at least marginal phenomenon, although, as the President said, objective assessment of the situation is extremely important when we are in the middle of a crisis. We have to face the fact that our second quarter decline in GDP was 14.5 percent, which means that we lost roughly every seventh forint this summer, which the national economy could produce earlier. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that if we really had a stable foundation that could withstand a crisis management, we wouldn't have been able to fall that far in the last quarter. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, spoke about the fact that the municipalities were able to manage with more money, but in 2019, in the budget year that we have just discussed, the processes through which the financial bleeding of the settlements that voted for the opposition leadership last year began. In this sense, the general principle of functioning of the system is that the development of the settlements of the players who agreed with you, with you, is abundant in resources, while the fiscal retaliation of the victory of the Democrat mayors has already begun during the 2019 budget year, which was our last quarter. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, There are very few people here now, but I'm happy for you. You have talked about the fact that most employees have ever worked in the Hungarian national economy. At the same time, in terms of employment records, we cannot forget the public work programme, in which the number of participants reached 100,000 last summer. In a sociocultural sense, this is in the short term as if it would result in some kind of improvement. But I wanted to look here at Secretary of State Zoltán Maruzsa, who was in the room not so long ago, that families living in regions that are really desperate are in many cases eager to see their children enter the public work programme by reaching the age of 16 years and bring an unparalleled income to the family that will recreate the vicious circle of poverty. So in this sense, I would argue, Mr State Secretary, that in the labour market, improving such statistics, I would say once again, in the short term even in sociocultural terms, the public work programme will have dramatic consequences in the long term, so that our 16-17-year-olds will be transferred from the school board to the public work programme. In June 2019 100,000 public workers worked in our country for a wage that is only half the living minimum in a single household. There is no need to deal with economic policy or social policy in order to meet the misery of the domestic social groups. Education politicians are told by school directors from the northeast-Hungarian region that the rhythm with which they were able to organize school days earlier is lost today, with these children having breakfast before the first hour, because the last meal was in the afternoon of school, and since then these children, at least in a quality sense, were starving. I know, by the way, that Zsuzsa Hegedűs denies this phenomenon, but there is now a whole series of studies about this, that we have regions that are failing, which should be better helped by the central budget. I am talking primarily about them when I say that the poor social groups did not or only have very limited access to this economic growth, which our country was able to do back in 2019. The work-based society and the words that you want to do for those who want to make a living for their children, not their children, honourable fellow Members, is a false and racist statement in my reading. You didn't do this, Mr. Secretary of State, who are sitting in this room right now, but I think we should talk about it, because from your political community, these statements are coming from which the social tensions that we already have are further increased. The CSOK mentioned by the Minister is best used by the middle class and upper middle class already with real estate, which has been discussed recently by my opposition colleagues. I would ask you to correct me if I am wrong, but this week, our fellow Member Róbert Zsigó said that the CSOK was used for more than 70,000 children. Taking advantage of a child with a home-creation discount means that I assume that in the future my creditworthiness will allow me to continue to be able to buy most of this house, otherwise financed by credit, in the future. Based on the figures listed here, between 20 and 30 thousand families who are in a position to benefit from this home creation benefit after unborn children, and as I mentioned earlier, this often involves significant borrowing. At the time when we talked about this bill here in the House, I mentioned that the family support package, which was accepted by the two-thirds, includes the risk that, if these children, if these children are not born, then what happens to these families, how many millions of HUF will these families lose, or will not be forced to sell the property they wanted or wanted to buy on the market and then to repay the loan, and perhaps to fall back into a housing situation worse than before. Nor is it the idea of a Hungarian reality that we are a country of unborn children. So I am also arguing in favour, and in this the Secretary of State is right, it is very witty to think that we will not be able to change the number of girls born in the '80s, who today give the majority of women of childbearing age. I agree with you on that. However, we must speak in any way about the fact that, at the moment in our country, there are also a series of studies on the fact that childbearing is a factor that increases the risk of poverty, which affects a very large number of families very badly. I therefore argue that the central budget that you have planned each year now represents the benefits of a very narrow social group that undoubtedly carries great progress, but my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has already spoken about this. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Many families are struggling with problems due to the lack of shelter in nursery and kindergarten. In the budget year we discussed, according to Eurostat data, 88 thousand people did not work or work much less hours or hours than they wanted because they did not have a nursery space for their children. I submitted a proposal at the time that this problem could be significantly reduced by improving the normative financing of non-state-reserved, i.e. foundational and private crèches. It has also been apparent from the statistical changes in these institutions in recent years that we have basically contributed to a great deal of space for private institutions, beyond the fact that public crèches have also been created, and I do not deny them, but their number is far from insufficient. In this sense, helping young families is not resolved to the appropriate extent. Thus, the dynamic reintegration of young mothers into the labour market does not in any way characterize the domestic national economy, which has socio-economic effects in the short and long term, which will simply include us as breakers. We cannot climb other social steps which, by the way, the societies of the region, the countries around us, for example, are climbing, and here I am talking about gender equality and the principle of equal treatment in practice. [[14.00]] During the keynote speeches, it appeared that the opposition was not involved in the work, and therefore, even when planning the 2019 budget, it was only trying to prevent the government's work. I would like to say to you that this is not the case, and I would like to add, as a closing point, this speech with the idea that democracy differs from dictatorship in the very fact that the common good is also decided in debates, honourable Members. The emptiness of the professional content of the Commission's work was mainly due to the work of two-thirds of its representatives. The opposition has put in place constructive proposals, even in the planning of the 2019 budget, but also in the previous years, which could have been accepted or put into debate, so, where appropriate, let us say, a series of amendments. I am looking here at my fellow Member, István Happy, first of all, because he is now the only one present from the Committee on Budgets other than me. So, we disagree on a lot of things that have already been said by pro-government colleagues. I think that planning and implementing our budget will become a shared responsibility if you allow the proposals and the planning process to be shared. Please consider this. Thank you for listening.
u2020-10-21-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue the debate. From the Fidesz Group, Mr István Happy is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-37	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Before I begin to say what I was about to say, I'd like to respond to the sayings of Avenger Anett. I would like to suggest, first of all, that what you said about raising children or living of children, please agree, let us say, with Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat, betterman, because, before you came together, Jobbik took a completely different approach to this from what you just said between 2010-14. At the time, even they thought that families who work for children and not those who live for children should be helped. This debate may be held between you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian and Anett Bősz intervene.]] Besides, as far as the public works programme is concerned, I think that we should not look down on community service workers, we should appreciate their work, and I could also tell you on this point that we should not forget that years ago the number of people who worked in the public works programme has approached or exceeded 200 thousand, compared to what you said, the 100 thousand is a significant reduction, and it is clear from the employment data that these people who disappeared from the public works programme have been placed in the competitive sphere. I think it's a very good thing, I hope there'll be more and more of them. If I have to give an example from my own constituency, the fact is that in a settlement from 40-50 start workers, public workers, it is now good to be able to collect 8-10. I consider this to be a great achievement, and I think that this is the way to go, so that everyone who wants to can take a position in the sphere of competition. And as far as daycare is concerned, I can only say my own constituency. The fact is that the government has taken huge steps on this issue, both in 19 and 20, and will continue in the future, since 10 out of 23 settlements in my district have already completed nursery renovations or new constructions, or they are in progress, or they have already won the grant and are under public procurement. So I think that this is a huge thing, and not only in large settlements, but also in small settlements, the municipalities are thinking in crèches and crèches. Mr President, What are we arguing about today? We are debating the fact that in June 2018, the government, the governing parties, brought it to the House, what they think, where the country is going in 2019. I think it's perfectly normal that we don't agree today that we did well in 2019 or not, because we couldn't even agree on planning. We have told you our plans, we have told you what we want to achieve in this country, whether in terms of economic indicators, unemployment, family support, national policy, education or health in 2019. At that time, the opposition disagreed. There was no point in which we could agree on the budget. Apparently, they have tabled amendments that did not agree with our ideas or fit into the budget's planning at that time. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] So it is obvious that when we talk about the completion of this year 19 we can't agree, because we couldn't agree that we want family support, or we want to support family support, let's say, the car purchase discount of large families, we would like to see as many large families as possible, let's say, we couldn't agree with the benefit of the village CSOK, or at all with the Hungarian village programme, because you didn't support the budget at the time either in the debate or later in the vote. Similarly, they obviously disagreed with the pension increase, disagreed with the Erzsébet camps. And, you know, the most outrageous thing for me in all of this is that, while the left-wing opposition did not support these goals, for example, it turned down the Elizabeth camps in a loud voice when discussing next year's budget, while some Members did so. Take Gyurcsányi... I said Mr Tamás Csányi, almost his common name, as he is called in our constituency, because he is only called Tamás Gyurcsányi in the district, not by accident, because he is one of the best followers of Ferenc Gyurcsány from Jobbik. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And the fact is that he, for example, is the Member who speaks against the Elizabeth camps, does not vote for the Elizabeth camps, and then his own children, of course, go to the Elizabeth camps, because, of course, we do not agree with him here in Parliament, but we use family support in the same way. I find this outrageous. If something is good, you should stand by it and vote here in Parliament. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You are a communist!]] I would say to Congressman Z. Kárpat that I did not yell at you when you spoke, and you should respect that you do not yell, that you are not civilized. So we couldn't agree. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] We could not agree with national politics, we could not agree that we support our Hungarians across the border, that we were helping them build their kindergartens, that we could not agree to help the people who lived there, whether in economic or sports, and, of course, when we did this, you could not agree with it. But we couldn't agree with the program of the Hungarian village, which brought a great deal to the settlements. My fellow Member, V. Németh, spoke about the programme of the Hungarian village, and I would rather talk about what this has brought to a settlement, because other than the number of settlements that could apply for the 100 billion programme, there are visible, tangible results. To give an example: Mesterszállás in the village in several applications there have been very nice improvements in kindergarten, medical clinic and school renovation. A new playground could be built in the renovated kindergarten, and thanks to the program of the Hungarian village, the road to Masters' Accommodation was renovated, which has not been renovated for decades and has been in very bad condition. Thanks to the village CSOK and these developments, the population of the village of Mesterszállás increased by nearly 60 people this year. If there is any tangible result of the 2019 budget and it has clearly been good for the residents, then this is it. But I could give you another example. In the same respect, the same thing happened in Bagimajor, which belongs to the village of Kengyel, because of the increase in the number of inhabitants due to the village CSOK and the investments made there. Almost all of our small settlements have made investments that have improved the quality of life of those living there, and have resulted in people liking moving there, living there, and liking to move there. I think it is important that we have been able to renovate kindergartens, that there is only a sidewalk, but virtually all of our 18 small settlements have been renovated in the last year. I understand that you do not understand the importance of this budget, because once again, we have not agreed on the basis, and we have rejected it, and yet I consider it important that this budget has personally brought me a success, and this success is the delivery of Hungarian folk tales to kindergartens. After all, in my own constituency, I initiated to take the Hungarian folk tale to every Hungarian kindergarten, and I took it to every kindergarten or kindergarten member institution in my own district. I am pleased that the Prime Minister and the Government supported this, and in December last year Hungarian folklore was delivered to all Hungarian kindergartens. I think it's an important thing, and I'm also experiencing it as a serious personal success. Finally, I would like to tell you to calm down, this budget has fulfilled the numbers that we have committed. The country has had an outstanding year, and I think that not only the country, but also the people who live and work in this country. Every man who tries to do something for himself in this country can say that in 2019 he has made a step forward in his life, I think. The country has been able to deliver the big economic numbers that we are always talking about, what we are judging this country about abroad. [[14.10]] All of those expectations could be brought about, and I can say that thanks to this good economic performance, it is now that economic performance is deteriorating also in the crisis, although, of course, in our country, because it is deteriorating all over Europe and even in the world, but perhaps less than the EU average. I trust this, and I also hope that at the end of 2020 we can say that it was a year when it was a crisis, but we did better than Europe. I trust that every year every Hungarian citizen can take a step forward in his life thanks to his own work, and, of course, thanks to government measures, and then we can see that there is a future for Hungarians, that in a thousand years' time, just like today, the largest nation will be in the Carpathian Basin, and in a thousand years' time, the Carpathian Basin will be loud. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This is an interesting debate. I have tried to follow it, because it has already started relatively early, at 8 a.m., and we can see that from the political, professional debate we have gone all the way to pure party politics, to the party political debate, but I do not think I will push away from reality if I say that until now, Mr István Happy has been the bottom of the debates of today. Allow me to react briefly. You have said a lot of stupid things, and you have lied about many things that you obviously know about the opposition's intentions, which I think there is no place for, and in this way there is no place for such a debate, but I would definitely like to refer to one thing. We are in a symbolic year, in the year of national solidarity, a hundred years after the outrageous Trianon peace dictatorship, and this year, we can say that the most joyful moment was when we were able to commemorate this year together in February by presenting a resolution proposal to Parliament on cooperation in the European Citizens' Initiative launched by the Szekler National Council to support the national regions, supporting it and joining it in a unanimous vote. I said at the time in the debate that it is very, very important to start that endeavour at last in substance, not only to talk about how national policy, commitment for Hungarians across borders, should finally be a national issue, so that we can free the party policy from this. This is basically an opposition faction, DK, who is generally unable to identify with this question, they have remained silent at least this year, but I see that exactly the pro-government representatives and one or two of these outstanding examples, such as Congressman István Happy, who, even this year, cannot get to the point that this matter really should not be the subject of party political battles. I consider this to be an outrage, and I find it unworthy that this year, even in the debate of the 2019 accounts, István Happy is humiliating the opposition by saying that it is not important for us to support Hungarians living outside the border. I ask you, Mr President, instead of making such outrageous and vile statements, rather than trying to do something about it, we have talked about this important European citizens' initiative, in order to try to collect more signatures by the deadline of 7 November. This can also be done on the irdala.hu page or on the international equivalent. By the way, since I am going into this debate, I have written a letter to 120 mayors and asked them to help this matter through their EU twin cities, their partner cities and their contacts. If this question is even a little bit important to you, I ask you not to use it for party politics, but to do something for the cause. Returning to the discussion of the accounts after the small detour, reference should be made here to the statements made in this regard. Here today, some pro-government representatives resented the way the opposition parties and opposition factions in the budgetary debate in which the 2019 budget was adopted. We used to say that this was a budget for the future. We said this precisely because we saw from the budget figures that the government does not want to face fundamental systemic problems. There are various declared goals, political speeches, rhetorical elements, and then when we look at the budget, budget planning and then budget implementation, we see what the government has actually done, how it is doing. It is clear that the government has not faced the most important social and economic and environmental problems. The budget can be assessed ex post by comparing the different sequences of figures, and there the differences are shown on a mathematical basis, but I think it is more important to talk about the goals and the effects that they are declaring and which we should achieve in the interests of the Hungarian nation and to ensure the rise of the nation. By the way, here I note that Congressman István Happy even had a weird sentence that Hungarians will be the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin, where Hungarians are the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] It seems that Congressman will have to run this one more time so that he can live through this issue and not just throw government rhetoric at me. Well, let's look at these system problems. I think we can say that today the greatest challenge for the nation is the emigration that we can see. By the way, I will not say good things about the governments before 2010, do not expect me to, but what we can see after 2010, after Viktor Orbán's return to power, is that this forced emigration has taken a shocking rate, and this is basically a huge problem in rural areas. Even in many other areas, there was a huge shortage of professionals, basic systems on the verge of collapse. Similarly, substantial progress has not been made in the provision of public services. There has been talk of rural areas, the situation in the villages. Here, Mr V. Németh has made a different comment with a very different tone, and I will also refer to it, particularly with regard to the situation of small settlements. But it has been said, Anett Bősz talked about the regions of Hungary that are falling apart. It pains me particularly that not so long ago the EU's 15th poorest region was in South Transdanubia, now the 9th poorest region, and we can say that it is the last of the Hungarian regions in terms of economic performance. What hurts me is that virtually as at the time of accession to the EU, four regions in Hungary are among the 20 poorest regions in the Union, and in the last ten years they have not been able to take any meaningful steps to remedy this situation. If we look at the territorial differences within the regions, we also see terrible things and terrible differences, and we can say that peripheric rural areas in desperate condition, where the previous Balliberal government era has forgotten as well as the current government regime, which is lying to itself as national. Congressman Nacsa, he's not in the room, he's made a pretty amazing, extreme statement. It was able to refer back in the 2019 budget debate here in 2020 to the Bajnai-Gyurcsány period when an attack on railway lines was launched as one of the emblematic steps of shameful rural destruction policy. That's exactly what you're doing this year, 34 railway sidelines have been virtually condemned to death by the fact that you've eliminated passenger traffic with a completely extreme justification, which means that you can't support it on a professional basis. In ten cases, the stronger political pressure has brought them back, but in 24 cases these shameful and in no way justified timetables are still in place. Congressman Nacsa even dared to speak of the defence of sovereignty when he practically fell on his knees before the interests of multinational companies, they always slavishly serve multinational companies. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel:]] That's right. Similarly, I think that the push-over of the Paks project, by giving the Paks project to the Russians without a tender, on the basis of practically lies and errors, by referring to the approval of the European Union, and at other times the European Union is always being abused, is absolutely amazing, but it cannot be matched with the Hungarian national interests. Similarly, and we have discussed this, the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, together with everything, has become a nearly 1000 billion-dollar project, together with interest and additional projects, and you have also encrypted this project, and specifically because of the great powers of China, this project has been pushed over, and the huge amount of money is paid to Hungarian taxpayers to enforce the great powers of China against the Hungarian national interests. I ask very, very much for my fellow Members, István Happy, perhaps you will give it to Congressman Nacsa, if you will come in so that they do not use these words at least because it is an outrage, so this policy they are pursuing is contrary to many aspects of national interests. Nevertheless, there are, of course, goals in which we agree, no matter how much you deny it, Member István Happy. I could add that there has been no saving the countryside, no substantial transport reforms, no development of public transport, no environmental policy, but how successful the development policy of the past period has been, I think that everyone can measure it by examining their own narrower living environment and narrower home. They spent everything on development policy, and what basic tasks they did not perform, how they failed to prepare the country for the 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century in all respects, also from an economic and environmental point of view. [[14.20]] In short, I would like to refer to Mr Zsolt V. Németh's thoughts. I agree with him on a lot of things, I mean, about target definition. He mentioned one of the ideological apostles of the ignominious village-destroying, anti-rural policy of the socialist period, and, yes, in that period there was indeed the shameful government measure that sat in this ideology, that, yes, the villages were in some way communist ideologists and designers of that period outdated settlement category. It's obviously completely absurd, and it's almost insane. This was a very forward-looking debate in the '80s. I think anyone who cares about the fate of our villages and here I quote the title of a book may know the classic work of György Enyedi. And I turn to my country a little smaller: it was a shocking event at the time of the depopulation of the town of Ringfű, and it drew the attention of many to the fact that it was necessary to do so for the villages, and then the farm movement and the others were formulated, which, in effect, was now the image of a well-functioning and very exemplary village caretaker service. I can say, too, that Mr.István Happy said very stupid things here too, because we are very committed to ensuring the future of Hungarian villages. And in this regard, it is not possible to criticise the Balliberal governments before 2010 hard enough because they did indeed have anti-rural, village-destructive policies; they have the same anti-rural and rural-destructive policies as this current government is currently pursuing. Obviously, there is still no chance that I am still just at the introduction of my speech to discuss in detail the shameful measures that have appeared only this year. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] For example, in the case of small settlements, the withdrawal of vehicle tax revenues has been a major blow to small settlements. I have mentioned the lack of reforms in the area of public transport, but it is obvious that it is essential that the future of settlements is that jobs are available on the ground, so there is no need to move. Obviously, it is also very important within the country to ensure the conditions for remaining in the homeland. However, this requires a well-functioning and sustainable Community transport system in all respects. But likewise, there is a lot of talk about public utility tax here in Parliament. It's also a blow to small settlements, and you don't have to prove why. Obviously, in a periphery, scattered villages of a few hundred people, long and long lines have an unrealisticly high public utility tax overall. It is no coincidence that demographic indicators for small settlements are shocking. So the target systems of the Hungarian village are good. The goals set are good, but much more resources should be used in this direction, and indeed, they should be used correctly to ensure that roads for small settlements are in a really good state. The congressman mentioned some figures that in 2019 they were able to repair 900 kilometers of municipal and national roads, but I have to contrast again with a specific figure that there are 17,000 kilometers of lower roads in the wrong and the wrong categories. As much as my fellow Members insist that the government is trying to work off this difficult Balliberal heritage, that is not so. Because when compared year after year to year, compared to the previous year, we can see that more and more stretches of roads that are in bad condition, and the length of more and more roads that are already unrefurbished, need virtually reconstruction. So you are right to say, once again, the criticisms, but the problem is not being dealt with, but the problems are being increased, because according to the statistics provided by you, the lower roads are getting worse. What I said, amazing numbers, they're just state-owned roads. If you count municipal roads, it's much, much worse. However, we can also see that, for example, the planned reconstruction framework of 1.5 billion in the 2019 budget has increased by 3 billion in the water utilities, but compare it with the fact that again, according to professional estimates, 3000 billion are missing in a 15-year perspective, so that the most basic public service, drinking water supply and sanitation systems can be replaced and maintained. So I repeat: in addition to the current and planned resources, over the 15-year horizon, HUF 3000 billion is missing. On Monday, I asked the Prime Minister in the hour of immediate questioning, and it was shocking to me that he was working with such a material error, Prime Minister, and he accused me of the 1000 billion he accepted that the lack of resources was of the order of 1000 billion, but to exaggerate, we multiplied these figures here. Please, this is an estimate of the County City Alliance. There are also pro-government mayors who are missing 3000 billion forints. It will be very difficult to steer properly if the basic figures are not communicated to Prime Minister that there are such problems. So I repeat: In 2019 3 billion forints were available for maintenance in connection with water utilities, and if we want to work the problem in this way, say, a decade and a half, then hundreds of billions should be used for this purpose. I'm saying that we agree on a lot of things, but your policy is very, very far from real for now. What I basically wanted to talk about in my speech was only the reaction, the shameful neglect of environmental issues, and I will discuss this in more detail in another speech. I can give you amazing numbers. By the way, I see that, for example, HUF 400 million has been allocated to the implementation of the green investment system in 2019 and zero forints have been used. However, I could also tell you how little they spend on what is perhaps the most important and even clearly the most important thing to preserve a healthy environment, and we can also see that in this direction, Fidesz's policy of virtually non-recognizing XXI continues in this year and next year as well. The most serious challenge of the century, climate change and environmental destruction, but I see that I will only be able to talk about this in a next speech. Thank you.
u2020-10-21-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We now have two-minute speeches. From the Jobbik Group, Congressman Csaba Gyure, notary of Parliament, please.
u2020-10-21-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It was István who led me to speak, and I would like to reject his words, and I would like to call upon István Happy to apologize to my fellow Member Tamás Csányi.I have been here in Parliament since 2010, and I do not think that it has ever occurred to talk about a fellow Member who is absent, to give him names and to think that he is practically humorous to be mentioned here under a nickname. I've never heard anything like it here in this House. I think that this is deeply unworthy of the spirit of the Hungarian Parliament, and I also reject it on behalf of my fellow Member, and I call on you to apologize. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-21-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Mr. István Happy is next. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-43	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask Congressman Loránt Keres to read the minutes. What you said isn't true. First of all, I didn't tell you about Trianon and the 100th anniversary. I was talking about you not voting for the budget, by not voting for the 19th budget, not supporting the support of our fellow nations across the border. You can shoot this any way you want, if you don't accept the budget, then you won't accept the subsidies we've given you. By the way, just to talk about our fellow nations across the border, I would like to draw your attention, too, to your colleagues in DK, with whom you are now in a coalition or at least in cooperation, to discuss with Ferenc Gyurcsány that you support or do not support the people across the border; because Ferenc Gyurcsány does not support you, apparently even wants to take away their voting rights. I want you to talk to each other first in your cooperation, and then come along. I accept it for you, and I support the signing of the Szekler National Council myself. I collected signatures, campaigned for them, and signed them much earlier than you suggested in Parliament; otherwise, this can be traced back to my Facebook page. As a matter of fact, you said that Hungary is still the largest nation, which is why I ask you to read it back, because I said that even now and in a thousand years' time, Hungary will be the largest nation, and this is not government propaganda. The fact is that I said this much sooner than the Hungarian Government in my speeches. This can be traced back, of course, and even cross-border, to those I've been to. In fact, you're talking about the villages: I'm sorry, you consider yourself a liberal politician. My fellow Member, V. Németh, quoted a liberal politician, not the previous system, but a liberal politician, who did not regard the people of the villages as equal to the people of the cities, and considered the villages to be a failure. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Maybe decide what you want to do. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-21-44	Thank you very much. László Lóránt Keresztes Group Leader will have the floor for two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-45	Thank you. Mr President, I don't know if it's worth answering to Happy Stephen, but I'd like to refer to a few things. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] First of all, I'm not in any coalition with the Democratic Coalition. Yes, when I presented this proposal for a resolution in February, we adopted it with 158 unanimous votes in favour, which was a pleasure to me, and I think that this is the debate that we had then held on national policy, about the collection of signatures from the Szekler National Council, and the real Hungarian national cooperation that, in addition to this initiative, showed that by May more than a million people signed it, I believe that this was worthy of the year of national integration. [[14.30]] But I can tell you this, and I told you on March 10th, the day of Szekler freedom, in the field of Heroes, that yes, there is a faction who can't interpret the national idea and didn't stand beside this case, and this was the Democratic Coalition. We will never agree on this issue, but I think we can agree on a lot of things, and for example that your policy is basically against the interests of the Hungarian nation in many respects, regardless of rhetoric. I mentioned this, Mr President, and the reason I resented you, Mr President, is because you said and read back the minutes, too, that we did not agree with the intention of taking every opportunity to support Hungarians across borders. We fully agree with this intention, and let alone agree with it, we also act on this matter, in accordance with the possibilities, so that this is always the case. Even when I was a member of the Committee of the Regions, I acted as a municipal representative and now as a Member of Parliament. I do not wish to go into ideological debates now, but I think that I can say that we have never said this, and indeed at all, as a green party that is critical of globalisation, thinking on a national basis, if we can define an ideology as contrary to the political principles which we ourselves have declared, it is the kind of liberalism that you represent in the Hungarian Parliament. We can say that Fidesz-KDNP is not a conservative, not a national party, indeed a party operating on the Bolshevik principles of neoliberal economic policy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-21-46	I hope that this personalising part of the debate is over, and we will return to what the debate should be about, that is to say, the final report for 2019. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-21-47	Mr President, Dear House, If we are talking about a close-out debate on the way in which the budget for which it is being supported, I would like to reject the Vérbolshevik rhetoric, which says that if someone does not support the budget of the expensive P-written party, then he will reject all its elements from there, and if he may support any of its elements, then he should support the whole. We don't live in the Republic of the Council, you may be rhetorical sometimes, but the thing is that István Happy understands, I try to illuminate, when you say that you want to send Hungarian folk tales to kindergartens, I support and give you a hand. When I submit a budget amendment that you do not accept, and the subject of this is to provide the flask baby program with maximum financial support, without waiting lists, so that as many children as possible wanted Hungarian children are born, and you have not supported it, what is your opinion on the basis of your own thinking? That you're anti-nationals, fake nationals? I'm sure you will in this matter. However, please do not accuse me that I do not support certain chapters of your draft budget; the Erzsébet camps happen to be. Let's say that I will not be able to support the funds allocated to the mass and organised resettlement of migrant workers, and you are organizing the crowds of guest workers to Hungary from Tiszaújváros to countless cities. How does that work with their migration strategy? So it's worth talking about. These organised resettlements are not supported by Jobbik and otherwise sane opposition actors. You're still doing it. So there are many points in the draft budget that are the subject of the accounts that are welcome, and there are plenty of points that are not. And then let's talk about one more. Basically, I support the CSOK as a construction myself, and I support every sane idea of home creation. But he's a happy fellow Member. I cannot support the fact that you will enlighten those who are protected in Hungary in performances about the possibility of recording the CSOK. And that's what you do. The thing is, a draft budget is more complicated than your world view, that if we support it, we're good communists, if we don't support it, then we're not good communists. We're talking about a much more sophisticated system, and closing accounting is more complicated than that. Where further, among the 400-500 opposition amendments, we will certainly find something that you support as a good patriot, and I would have supported it if it had gone through. I understand that the flask baby program is like this, but your government didn't allow you to support it, and I didn't have a chance to bring it to the House. But I think that there should be consensus at least on such elements of the family support system, because there are no more important things in Hungary than demographic targets. That's why I'm hurt by the demographic deep flight you're trying to make as a victory. If you want to help in this area, then in this budget and in the closing accounts, in response to Mr Secretary of State and, by the way, thank you for your reaction, because it is a good man's attitude not to wait for the end of the debate, but to try to remove doubts and operate with facts and figures, and I also want to have a positive impact on demographic goals. I think that the ban on four children has been introduced, right? We're talking about mothers, we're talking about three children, and we should have opened them. I am only saying this because, in my memory, the Prime Minister's Declaration was the first to announce this construction, that is what it was about. If three children can benefit from the personal income tax exemption, a broad social group can use it, and it may also appear on the indicators. In the case of four children, in essence, let us be optimistic, we are talking about one or two ten thousand people in Hungary, where the majority of the children who have desired have already been born. So if we have demographic goals, we need to have a much wider impact on these instruments. It is incomprehensible to me why your own Prime Minister has been overruled on this issue. Obviously, the budget has been examined, they have seen that the Hungarian economy is not as wonderfully divided as you say here in Parliament, and they are also forcing Mr. State Secretary, as an excellent expert, to defend by all means what is otherwise indefensible in the draft budget and therefore in the accounts. Similarly, in the case of grandparents' children, we have suggested that we do not use such a reduction in the most important years before retirement that no pension can be taken in addition to the grandparents' lawn. These tools could be provided in full and in combination, precisely because my family concept includes the ability of grandparents to help their offspring as widely as possible and to have as many children as possible. Unfortunately, however, we have not been close to this in the last few years, although András Bencsik has lied about the Hungarian sky in the columns of the Democrat, that after fifty years we have entered among the growing nations. Unfortunately, we're still losing a small town. Fortunately, with a 5.5 percent improvement compared to last year's catastrophic year, we can reach roughly the number of live births in 2017; not by 2016, because it is higher than the expected data from this year. But it is certain that we must forget the 2010 level, and we will not reach it for a long time, precisely because of the correct state secretary's statement, which referred to the continuous decline in the number of women of childbearing age. And then let's stop at the fertility rate for a second. And I'm really glad you brought that up. Demography is a profession. This profession states that, let's say, the number of marriages is not a demographic indicator, but let's move on. The fact is that in all the former socialist countries and in the countries of the region, there was an amazing fall in fertility rates to a level of 1.2-1,3-s, but Hungary was also here somewhere around 2008-2009. And it has also been observed that the fertility rate has returned to a level of 1.5-1.6 in all countries in the region, except in Hungary. And I do not dispute that the pre-2010 governments, but even the Bokros package, have something to do with it, because they have had a shifty population impact. However, this replacement is because this is what the demographic profession calls this finally happened in Hungary, and fortunately by 2015-16 we reached a fertility rate of 1,44, then 1,49. I'm really rooting for this to go up to 1.6. The thing is, unfortunately, this indicator stopped a few years ago, after the small decline last year, this decline was replaced again, and it is again broadly balanced. But, Secretary of State, let us be honest with ourselves: what is the number of births in the vicinity of 90,000, in your opinion, of Hungary for decades, over decades? The number of live births is projected in Hungary at 6.3 million. If you succeed in these obstacles and the correctly invented baby shower construction and others can push this number a little bit, then we will not be 6.3 million, but 6.5 million, and this is also a result. But do not claim that Hungarians have grown, or that we have reached a trend turn, because today's data project a 6-7 million-dollar Hungarian nation here, even within the truncated country. This is a terrible vision. We should all change that, because if this is the case, then health care, pension systems, public support systems will first creak and crunch, and then they will fall in line after 2030. This disastrous vision of the future should be faced honestly. You know that it is true, but you don't talk about it, but if we have a responsibility, we will discuss this problem in the most honest way, and we will not allow András Bencsik to lie about growth, while we lose a small town a year. [[14.40]] I would also like to say that it has been said here that the decline in the Hungarian economy in the middle of the epidemiological emergency is substantially 1-2 percentage points lower than the European average, and a few of my fellow Members on the government side have brought out that the Hungarian economy is stronger than the European economy at this time. What we are talking about here is that the Hungarian economy or GDP is falling by thirteen whole tenths of a percent, while the average European fall is about 15 percent. However, in Europe, especially in the Western part, economic diseases are not typical, as we do, for example, because of the fact that 80 percent of the entire hospitality profession either lost its income or suffered a huge loss, but these people do not appear, my fellow Members, in the statistics, because a lot of people must be forced to be employed to receive minimum wages or around-the-counter payments in regular bank transfer form, paper, and all the rest in pockets. This, which you may have received in your pocket or as a tip, your fall will not appear in your statistics, and believe me, in France, this is not the case for hosts in Germany. So I believe that it can be very pleasant to point out GDP data, but that doesn't mean the fall can't be debated, and that doesn't mean that we should do something about the fall. I agree with the Secretary of State of Banai on the issue of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises versus multik. I think that we can all agree here in this room on the goal of turning the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises into a higher degree of the international production chain or value chain, so that their added value can increase, thus strengthening the Hungarian national economy through multiplier effects. That is why I do not understand, Mr Secretary of State, and I honestly do not understand why the multi-enterprises concerned are over-rewarded. So if you look at how many times Audi has received non-refundable support from this government since 2010, you will see that they have paid several times the total wage weight of all newly created jobs, and it is not certain that this has had economic rationality or justification. In the meantime, we can also see that Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can only obtain a fraction of the support compared to multinationals on average to create a job. I'm not asking you to push the multinationals down, and they get the less, I'm just asking that the Hungarian micro, small and medium can get the same amount as the market average at least, because this would be the basis of a patriot economic policy. Until that happens, it's very hard to believe all the very beautiful rhetorical slogans they're saying. So the Prime Minister may have pointed out earlier that they shouldn't be watching what he says, but what he's doing. We look at what you are doing, and we see that although there are positive movements, the Hungarian folk tales in kindergartens are such a campaign, I very much welcome it, but overall they could not move at national level, they could not move at demographic level. This budget and the closing account that comes out of it will cement the Hungarian future, and this is the most disastrous diagnosis of a budget. That is why this is also our opinion at the closing debate, and you can see it as an impression. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-21-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman István Happy volunteered for two minutes. With all due respect, I would ask that the person who made his speech should be left out of it.
u2020-10-21-49	Mr President, The fact is that I do not like the Bolshevik tempo, and the situation is as follows: Dániel Z. Karpát said that they supported the Erzsébet camp; that is not true, forgery of history is not a nice thing. The fact is that in the last vote on the Erzsébet camps, the left-wing opposition pressed a single no-button, and did not support the Erzsébet camps. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As I do not see more candidates speaking, the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go. Your time frame is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I promise you that I will not fill the 30 minutes, but there are some points that, if the honourable Parliament would allow me to do at the end of the debate on today's accounts. In the first point, I would like to state that, in my opinion, the implementation of a budget must be about whether or not the objectives set by Parliament have been met, whether or not the spending of public funds has been responsible, and this has been coupled with a change in living standards that can be seen in everyday life or not. I see that the implementation of the 2019 budget in this respect is in line with the implementation of the budgets of the previous years. I can now tell you that we were able to achieve the objectives set by the majority of the government and Parliament in the previous year. Economic growth was as high and even higher by half a percentage point than we planned, and this was outstanding in the European context: Hungary's growth of 4.6 percent was more than 2 percentage points higher than the EU average of less than 2 percent. The expansion of the economy, as in previous years, has been accompanied by an increase in employment and real wages, to a greater extent here as planned. Public finance indicators have also followed trends in previous years, a habit of a deficit of less than 3 per cent and a falling public debt can be said about budget implementation. I would like to draw attention to, if I may, the debt ratio that showed 65.4 percent at the end of last year. Remember, that was over 80 percent. I believe that in the process of recent years, the reduction of the debt ratio was significant in 2019. This year's crisis management and financing of the measures are of particular importance. With all this, I may have said the second thought. When we evaluate the implementation of the 2019 budget and evaluate the government's economic and social policy, I consider it appropriate to take into account the processes of the previous years and to see that we are not talking about the positive figures of a year, but about annual, decade-long positive trends for God. To mention this, I cannot agree with the general economic policy and social policy opinions formulated today that we are going in the wrong direction. Family policy. Many people have said that it is a crucial, if you like, national political issue: how many Hungarians are born in the Carpathian Basin in the coming years. I would like to note that, in implementing the 2019 budget, the government has provided all the funds for the pre-defined purposes, and the totals of family support have increased overall, and I think that this has an important role to play in the fact that the fertility rate has come from around 2010 levels to the next level of 1.1-1,2- today. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, if I may, I would argue in one respect. So: we have never said that this level, this fertility rate, is sufficient not to reduce the number of people over the decades, but it is worth seeing the trend on the one hand, and on the other hand it is worth seeing that the government wants to help families where they decide to take on children with all possible means. This help is also, I think, reflected in the fact that marriages are supported by the government, which is what it did in 2019. Indeed, where couples are married, they are statistically detectable, with increased childbearing. So, if you like, for example, the first married tax relief is a demographic measure and we should be glad that the number of marriages has reached an unprecedented level. On the subject of perhaps another comprehensive issue in social policy today, it is whether various social and economic policy measures focus on the entire segment of society, or whether, as has been said in opposition benches and left-wing benches, it is only a positive move for the upper layers. The facts, I have to say again, are stubborn things. Even in 2019, the fact that more people lived from work than from aid was an individual step forward, and that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage rose far above inflation in 2019 means that poorer income workers could also increase their real income. [[14.50]] I stress that this is not an individual case, it is not a 2019 case. If we look at it over a decade, I repeat that this is a serious step forward, that government economic policy has made progress for the poorest people in financial situations, on the one hand, in terms of living from work instead of aid, and, on the other hand, in terms of their incomes, in any category of income, they have increased. As regards the overall comments and criticisms, perhaps the proposal for a discharge law also confirms the honourable Members of Parliament that the funding of priority areas increased in 2019. This is true of education, health care, or welfare spending. Of course, we still have work to do. I always say it in every budgetary discharge debate, but I respectfully ask the Parliament to take into account, when it comes to financing certain areas, the factual data which the State Audit Office has validated, which it considered to be real and reliable, and which have also been evaluated by various international organisations for the general government as a whole. Finally, let me say that I also agree with the findings that, perhaps I can say, we can talk about the last year of a special period in 2019, because we have seen economic growth in Hungary since 2013 that is well above the EU average. This period has come to an end this year, as the coronal virus epidemic has been a health challenge for a hundred years and can lead to an economic downturn that has not been seen for ten years. The fact that we can tackle this crisis today by completely different means than we did ten years ago is due to the results we have achieved in recent years; it is also due to the processes of 2019. I deeply dispute Mr Mellar's statement that the situation is the same now as it was ten years ago, because it was an economic downturn, even now, the debt has increased, even now. I would remind everyone that 800,000 more people are working, and I would remind everyone that the financing capacity of the Hungarian State, the debt ratio, the level of deficit, the structure of the debt is completely different. Everyone should be reminded that ten years ago, we were the only European Union country who has been in an overdeficit procedure ever since its accession. Hungary was one of the first countries to be forced to use IMF and European Commission funding instead of market financing as a result of the economic crisis. Hungary was the country to which credit was not granted or loaned in a market way, and it was reflected in the category not recommended for investment, and I would also remind everyone that today Hungary is in a completely different position both from the point of view of the debtor rating and from the point of view of the financing situation. This is why, I repeat, 2019 is due to the fact that today, when we are facing this major economic crisis, the government and Parliament were now able to decide not on tax increases, but on tax reductions, not on subsidies, but on spending, and they were able to do so by temporarily increasing the level of deficit and the government debt ratio, so that confidence remained in the Hungarian economy. This is indicated by the fact that we are in difficult times, but I remind everyone that the credit rating agencies, with whom we had many disputes, continue to keep Hungary in a category recommended for investment, and in a unique way Moody, and even improved the assessment of the Hungarian state. I think that in many areas there is a great deal of work to be done, both in relation to the issues of individual large public expenditure areas and in addressing the problems of the current crisis, in order to protect as many jobs as possible and to create jobs that have ceased as a result of the epidemic, but the management of previous years is a good basis for this, and the implementation of the 2019 budget is also a good basis. In view of all this, I warmly recommend to the Honourable Parliament that the closing proposal be adopted at a later date. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/13257. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I give the floor to Mr. Barnabás Hajas, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will tell his exposé from here on the platform. We'll wait for Mr. Secretary to wake up. [[It's happening.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-53	Mr President, Dear Parliament, CXXX of 2016 on the Civil Procedure. Law, Pp. It entered into force on 1 January 2018 and replaced by Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act, which was in force for more than 60 years. Law, as we used to call it, Pp. 52. Pp. has introduced a number of innovations in order to eliminate Pp 52. the problems encountered in its application and the coherence of the rules of the laws of the law. To this end, the Pp. introduced a split set of lawsuits to ensure the concentration of lawsuits, in line with the legal solutions in Europe, and introduced new rules based on the responsible litigation of the parties and the active prosecution of the court. In the case of a code that has been renewed after more than sixty years, the legal interpretation and enforcement difficulties associated with the application of new legal institutions are natural. On the one hand, because law enforcement, that is to say, courts and legal representatives, must have the skills to apply the new rules and, on the other hand, because there is a need for a more effective way to operate a new litigation model. The vast majority of the initial enforcement problems related to Pp have now been resolved with proper interpretation of the law, reassuringly, but there are still persistently decreasing enforcement issues that justify fine-tuning of the rules on litigation. The bill before this House aims to carry out these necessary refinements, based on the law's experience of more than two years in force. The primary objective of the amendment is to simplify the opening of proceedings, rationalise and make procedural rules more flexible in both first and second instance procedures, reduce formal constraints, introduce additional rules to facilitate enforcement by lay parties acting without a legal representative. The proposal aims to achieve this in such a way as to ensure that Pp remains. the terms and conditions of the concentrated litigation introduced by the Commission, the benefits of the split-option structure should be maintained. Another important aspect of the proposal's amendments is the introduction of rules to protect the interests of minors in family law cases. This is ensured on the one hand by stronger jurisdictions granted to the court and on the other hand by extending the court's means of litigation and strengthening ex officio in the interests of the child. The third aspect of the proposal's amendments is the introduction of rules aimed at speeding up family lawsuits, including divorce proceedings and parental supervision. With regard to the proposal, it should be stressed that all of its elements are based on feedback and suggestions from the enforcement bodies. In order to make the Pp. collect your experience of taking effect in the most direct way possible, and in the autumn of 2019 Pp started its operation in the Ministry of Justice. a working group of 20 members analysing its implementation. [[15.00]] The working group involved delegated representatives of all legal professions, courts, lawyers, counsels, notaries, prosecutors and executives applying Pp. The task of the task force was to directly channel the experience of law enforcement to the Ministry of Preparation of the Law, and to determine the points of intervention where, on the basis of their experience, Pp is deemed necessary. amend its specific provisions. The members of the Committee have made concrete codification proposals, the vast majority of which are included in the proposal under discussion. The amendments made in the proposal were based on the new Pp of the Curia, in addition to the proposals made by representatives of professional orders. Opinions of its Consultation Panel on Questions, the recommendations of the national meeting of the heads of civilist colleges concerning Pp., and the findings and proposals of the Kúria in its summary opinion on the case-law analysis of the rejection of the application. In the framework of the professional consultation, the President of the National Court Office, the Attorney General, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Hungarian Bar Association, the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries and the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court of Justice gave an opinion. The proposal is strongly supported and agreed with the content of all professional rules involved in the consultation. Dear Parliament, Now allow me to go into more detail on what amendments are included in the proposal. Let us first look at the amendments made to the proposal to ease the trial. In view of the feedback from law enforcement bodies, law-seeking citizens and organisations, the proposal significantly simplifies the content of the application for action and, in parallel, the content of the defence submitted by the defendant. The two basic documents will eliminate the elements of the content of which the interpretation of the case-law has developed, as well as the elements which constitute an unnecessary administrative burden for the parties. The proposal simplifies the rules on your actions on the basis of the feedback from the case-law and narrows the scope of the annexes to be attached to the application. In view of the practical experience, the proposal also makes it compulsory for the parties to act with the legal representative to issue an invitation to remedy the deficiencies in the form or form of the application. For the record, by the way, it's the "52," the old Pp. hasn't given me a chance since 2000. The proposal aims to promote the successful opening of proceedings, the early acceptance of the application, the concentrated preparation of the dispute, and thus to reduce the number of refusals to the application. The findings made in the summary opinion of the previously mentioned case-law analysis group on the rejection of the Curia application also clearly support the need to call for a remedy. The proposal provides that, in order to ensure that the deficiencies are effectively met, the court must fully indicate all the deficiencies of the application in its order calling for a remedy. If the court finds another deficiency in the application, it must be replaced already during the course of the hearing, but no further deficiencies or refusals can be made. The proposal further simplifies the content of the application, the defence and the appeal in the case of the party acting without a legal representative. In addition, it is proposed that the parties acting without a legal representative are not obliged to submit their submissions on a regular form of proceedings. To this end, the provisions of the proposal simplifying the content of the application and the defence provide an appropriate basis. However, it should be pointed out that litigation forms remain at the disposal of the parties, so that their use is no longer mandatory for the parties. In determining the manner in which the party acting without a legal representative is seeking to remedy the incomplete application, the proposal assumes the party's lack of legal knowledge, and thus allows the court to order the party's personal hearing instead of an invitation to remedy the deficiency if it considers it more appropriate in order to remedy the deficiencies in the application. The proposal thus strengthens the party under Article XXVIII of the Fundamental Law. The right to a fair trial within the meaning of Article 2 (1) (1). Dear House, In the context of the amendments to the bill concerning the litigation and substantive negotiation, the proposal rationalises the change of the action and the defence in the light of the enforcement feedback by not considering the change in the party's facts to be a change in the action. This will also significantly reduce the burden on the parties and the judicial administration. The proposal extends the counterclaims, such as counterclaims and the time limit for the submission of set-off: the defendant may submit them beyond the time limit for submitting a written defence, for example in view of the applicant's change of action. The proposal facilitates the rules on the presentation of a change of action and of a change of defence: in the course of legal proceedings, the parties may do so in a preparatory document without a judicial request and may also make a related statement of action. The proposal encourages the preparation of lawsuits without trial, which can significantly speed up litigation. It allows for a number of different types of litigation documents, such as a defendant's defence and a counterclaim, to be presented in a pleading, because based on the experience of law enforcement, there is an unnecessary administrative burden on the parties to present them separately. Dear Parliament, Allow me to point out, below, the rules of the proposal to deal quickly and flexibly with family lawsuits, as well as the main changes in the rules on civil status lawsuits. In family law lawsuits, in particular matrimonial and parental custody, there is a significant difference compared to the general model that these parties may continue to change their life conditions during the course of the trial. In view of this, on the basis of the feedback from the case-law, Pp. It is necessary to further relax the constraints resulting from the split-option introduced by the Commission, such as further simplifying the rules on the change of earnings and defence. In the family lawsuits, the 2019 LXVI. A number of different rules have already been introduced by law, but their extension is justified as proposed. The proposal introduces in family lawsuits a new course of action, which can only be used in these proceedings, which allows the court to, at the same time as informing the defendant of the action, not to await the date on which the defence was brought, to set the deadline for the hearing. Based on practical experience, the defendants often do not submit their counterclaims in court proceedings concerning their personal status, and there is no place for a court order to be issued in these proceedings. Thus, the amendments made under the proposal serve to speed up litigation considerably. The proposal allows the party acting without a legal representative to submit his counterclaim orally at the hearing, which may provide substantial assistance to the lay party. The proposal excludes the possibility of proof by private experts in proceedings concerning personal status. In the case of matrimonial and parental custody lawsuits, this is necessary, above all, for the welfare of the minor child, so as to avoid repeated hearing of the child. In cases of origin, it is also appropriate to exclude private expert evidence because of the specific nature of the evidence and the possibility of ex officio proof available to the court in all status cases. The aim of the proposal, by amending the rules on janitorial actions, is to minimise the possibility of persons who are often mentally ill and disabled, who should be placed under care or who are already placed under guardianship, and thus limit to the most necessary cases the possibility of imposing pre-emptive measures to ensure that they appear at trial or expert examination. The proposal assumes that, if a temporary caretaker has already been appointed to the defendant or has a janitor, the caretaker is expected to be able to ensure that the person to be placed under the care is present at the hearing or at an expert examination, which makes it unnecessary to advance him. It is proposed that the pre-accession should be provided only exceptionally and only if the hearing or expert examination of the person to be placed under the care cannot be resolved otherwise, such as on-the-spot negotiations or investigations. The proposal also removes the possibility for the court to order the placement of the person to be placed under the care of an inpatient hospital for a maximum period of 30 days in the case of janitorial proceedings. The UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has repeatedly challenged this option in its reports because it constitutes a deprivation of liberty without the consent of the person concerned. [[15.10]] The proposed amendment thus ensures the application of the rules of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Dear House, In order to settle the family status of a minor child and to ensure that it is brought up in the family as soon as possible, the proposal harmonises the rules of lawsuits of origin and adoption procedures. The proposal complements the rules on lawsuits of origin with the provision that a court shall act out of order in a case for the establishment of paternity or maternity if the court becomes aware that, during the course of the proceedings, there is a procedure for the adoption or adoption of a child. The reason for this is that the issue of parenthood must be clarified before the child's fate is settled by adoption. Dear Parliament, Allow me finally to highlight the amendments made to the proposal to better protect the interests of underage children. Pp. The court also has a strong right, on the basis of its current rules, to order ex officio proof in the interests of minor children or to take interim measures of its own motion in the course of the proceedings. In practice, however, this is rarely done. In view of this, the proposal broadens the scope of ex officio proof and gives examples of situations in individual family lawsuits where it may be appropriate for the court to use the instrument of ex officio, in particular in the interest of the minor child. In the case of proceedings for the settlement of parental supervision, the proposal provides for the possibility that, in all cases where it is in the interest of the minor child, the court may oblige the parent acting as a party and the minor child to undergo a psychologist peer review. In order to strengthen the child protection warning system, the proposal also requires the court in the Pp., in accordance with the Child Protection Act, to have an obligation to indicate that the child is at risk, abused or neglected. The proposal mentions contact lawsuits on personal status at a legal level, which, due to close links, are set out in a joint chapter on parental supervision lawsuits. The proposal further expands the scope of cases where, in the absence of an application for an action in the judgment of the court, it may decide, in the interests of the minor child, for example, to contact the child, to place the child with a third party or to hold a minor child. Such authorisation has previously been granted only in matrimonial proceedings, and the proposal extends this to all family lawsuits. Dear Parliament, Allow me to conclude by quoting the words of István Széchenyi, who said: "It is not enough to write laws in modern times; but sympathy must also be aroused for them. I am sure that the proposal before you, which all the elements of which have been based on feedback from law enforcement, is suitable for achieving this goal, i.e. the stimulation of sympathy. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-21-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we begin the keynote speeches, I would like to present to you the order of the keynote speeches: Gyula Budai, Csaba Gyure, Imre Vejkey, Gyula Molnár, László Sebian-Petrovszki and Lóránt László Keresztes. It is now time for the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Gyula Budai, to whom I give the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-21-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 1 January 2018, our new Code of Civil Procedure came into force, which replaced the previous 1952 III. Law. It is important to note that our existing Code of Law has introduced a number of novums in order to eliminate the problems encountered during the application of the 1952 Code and to ensure coherence of the Law on Rules of Procedure. I would also like to congratulate László Trócsányi, former Minister of Justice and colleagues on the commendable legislative work they have done. For two years now, our Code in force has introduced a case-by-case first-rate procedure to ensure a trial concentration in line with the legal solutions of a number of European countries, as well as new rules based on the responsible litigation of the parties and the active prosecution of the court. Dear House, The experience of the two-year application of civil procedure, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the feedback of the enforcement bodies justify the revision, clarification of certain provisions of the law and the simplification and flexibility of the rules on the law. In addition to the proposals made by the working orders, the new Pp of the Curia is a major basis for the content of the amendment proposal before us. Opinions of its Consultation Panel on Questions, the recommendations of the National Council of Civilist High School Leaders concerning Pp., and the findings made in the summary opinion of the Curia's working group on the examination of the refusal of the application, as well as the judicial portfolio Pp. comments and proposals for amendments in its Working Party on Enforcement. Dear House, Mr State Secretary, in his exposé, he described very in detail the provisions of the draft law, and I would just like to present a few points that are worthy of emphasis. The main objective of the bill on the House's table is to facilitate the exercise of the right of access to court by citizens and organisations seeking rights. We can therefore place the main points of the proposal within this concept. It can be seen from the norm that we are dealing with a kind of fine-tuning of the jurisdictional regulation, which is trying to slightly increase the scope of the lawsuits that fall within the jurisdiction of the court, regardless of the value of the subject matter. In this way, the distribution of district court and court cases will be more optimal, i.e. the jurisdiction of the court will be the jurisdiction of the legal person and its representative to deal with the liability of the legal person on the basis of their membership and representation, as well as legal disputes arising from the securities, international freight and international transport lawsuits. We should also mention the intention of amendments to simplify the start of proceedings. I would like to stress that, according to the proposal, the number of contents of the application will be reduced and the requirements for each element will be simplified. The effective enforcement of citizens will be facilitated by simplifying the mandatory content of the application, rationalising the formalities and extending the possibilities for filling the gaps. The reduction in the number of contents and forms of the application was based on the opinion of the case-law analysis group set up by the Curia in the examination of the refusal of the application. According to the proposal submitted, it is sufficient to indicate in the application the name and place of residence or place of business other than the identity of the defendant, and the absence of other identification data should not result in the rejection of the application. The formal criteria of the application will also be significantly reduced as the addresses of each structural unit do not need to be indicated, and the presentation of the contents within each structural unit is not in order or subject to formality. It should also be noted that the bill also seeks to promote the success of the trial by making it compulsory to issue a request for replacement of the application in the event of a lack of substance or form, in which the court must indicate all the deficiencies in the application. Dear House, I would like to highlight the amendments to legal proceedings aimed at improving the protection of the interests of underage children. One of the tools for this is for judges to be given stronger jurisdictions in legal proceedings involving minors in the interests of children. [[15.20]] In view of the fact that the court has the possibility to provide ex officio evidence in the status suit, it is therefore appropriate to exclude private expert evidence in such cases. In this way, it will be avoided that the minor child involved in the trial will be examined by up to three experts, which is obviously burdensome for children. Dear House, There is still a lot to talk about in the draft law, for example, ideas making the rules of the litigation more flexible, reducing the administrative burden on the parties, or amendments facilitating the enforcement of the parties during the second-degree procedure. In essence, the aim of the bill can be summarised as follows: on the one hand, to facilitate the exercise of the right of access to court for law-seeking citizens and organisations; to simplify the opening of proceedings for parties not having legal representatives and legal representatives; to reduce the administrative burden on the parties; to promote the success of the court's action by strengthening its involvement; to make the rules of litigation for the preparation of the case more flexible; to reduce the formalisation of proceedings; to introduce special rules to assist lay parties; to facilitate enforcement of the parties in the second instance procedure; and to make the Pp more balanced. by amending its rules of competence, the division of labour between the district court and the court; by establishing new rules to ensure effective protection of the interests of the minor child in family law cases; by introducing additional specific rules taking into account the specificities of family law lawsuits, the new Pp. In view of all this, honourable Members, honourable House, the tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group and I ask all my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2020-10-21-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyure, notary of the Parliament, who will make his speech here on the platform. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2013, the Government adopted 1267/2013 on civil court codification. In its decision of the Government, the Court of Justice of the European Union ordered the Court of Justice of the European Union to adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with the provisions of Article III of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article III of the What was the new Pp? the purpose of its development? How did you put it? The aim is to create a new code, which is consistent with modern international practice, to ensure the effective enforcement of material rights. The new Pp. clearly and coherently regulates litigation, taking into account the achievements of technology, thus facilitating the situation of law-seeking citizens and the professional community. It's all very nice. The Parliament adopted the completed bill on 22 November 2016 and the CXXX of 2016 on the new civil order. Law 1/2018 entered into force on 1 January 2018. What's the new PP look like? Welcome? How did the professionals involved in the preparation comment on this? First of all, let's see what the Attorney General thought of the new law. Minister László Trócsányi, after the adoption, said: "The issue of competitiveness is also what a country's policy is like. I obviously agree with that, but I think that if we look back on the perspective of the last few years, then we can see that Hungary's competitiveness is bad, because I think that this law has passed the wrong test, and I will look at this. Minister Zsuzsa Wopera said: "We have the continuity between the old and the new civil order, as the new rules are 60 percent the same as the old ones. In conclusion: according to law enforcement, it would have been better not to add that 40 percent, because it only made Pp worse. But a codification committee, led by Professor János Németh, was also involved in the preparation of the law. János Németh is a renowned researcher of civil litigation, head of the ELTE department, vice-rector at the same time, former President of the National Election Commission, Judge of the Constitutional Court, President of the Constitutional Court. János Németh and the new Pp. the codification committee responsible for preparing it was separated from the adopted law. The members of the codification committee felt that the expert material they had prepared had not been taken over, but perhaps they had not yet read it. And speaking of which, there's a strong hearing through this Pp. and the method of establishing the Fundamental Law. Let's see how the Fundamental Law was adopted. Well, we have established that a new constitution is necessary, which was supported by the Jobbik Movement for Hungary at the time, and we were the only ones who included the need for a new constitution in our programme in 2010. Then the Parliament formed the ad hoc committee for the preparation of the Constitution, set up its members, started working, prepared a draft, put the draft into a social debate. Then what happened to this? The government put this in the trash, and put a whole new proposal on the table of the House, which had been adopted earlier, not even a reminder. The same thing happened to Pp. For three years there was a technical committee, and then it went into the trash, and they ignored it, and put something on the table, and the Parliament immediately accepted what Minister Trócsányi brought here. Well, it seems to be the Fidesz-KDNP method. But let's get back to the accepted Pp. critics! As I said, this codification committee worked for almost three years, with 120 experts involved in the preparation. How did you comment on the accepted Pp? János Németh said in his first infatuation that I respectfully deny the bill, that there was a useless, sometimes ridiculous, lawsuit, which, in absurd cases, will deprive thousands of people of their rights. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We can say that the government has forced Pp into Parliament without at all dealing with professional opinions and professional comments. In this regard, Minister Trócsányi said in the expose of the bill in Parliament: "The Ministry of Justice has taken responsibility for the development of a purely profiled legal department, civil order and the management of codification itself. Well, we shouldn't have said it in hindsight. Minister László Trócsányi referred to the year 1952 III. the conditions under which the law is adopted. As he said, the bill was submitted by the Dobi government on 29 May 1952, and the author was the former Minister of Justice, Erik Molnár. Yes, this is the Erik Molnár who, one year later, in 1953, promoted his position as a minister to the President of the Supreme Court, and he never held a judgmental position for a single day, as was András Zsolt Varga, appointed by the Fidesz-KDNP, the day before yesterday. This is unprecedented in the history of democratic Hungary. This happened only twice during the reign of Joseph Ferenc, and it was possible under the anti-democratic conditions of the era marked by Rákosi's name, and, of course, now, under the Orbán regime. Let's get back to the words of László Trocsányi. In 1952, the submitted Pp bill was adopted by the House without debate that day, said the Minister. In this area, too, it seems that the Rákosi system of the first half of the '50s was the pattern for the government, because this House accepted the proposed bill practically without debate, almost as it was in 1952. It was only possible to make speeches on the subject as a keynote speaker. The general debate, the real debate, would have been held on 26 September 2016, but this was not done, because perhaps it was not by accident that an important legislative committee meeting was convened, where all the lawyers were present, and by the time we got back from the short TAB meeting, the agenda was closed. The debate lasted 2 minutes 37 seconds, in which only Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary for Justice, spoke. So we discussed this draft 2 minutes 37 minutes longer than we did in 1952. That's the difference between 52 and 2016. But what other criticisms were made by law enforcement? The Hungarian Bar Association also spoke in the case: it stated that it can identify with the aim of accelerating, improving and improving procedures, but expressed its fear that speeding up procedures disproportionately reduces the possibility of effective legal protection. [[15.30]] The new law will make judicial interpretation less predictable, and since the enforcement framework is being tightened, this is of particular concern for legal certainty. One year after the entry into force, the subcommittee of the Judicial Committee heard Dr. János Bánáti, president of the Hungarian Bar Association, and the question was how the new civil order will work in practice over the course of a year, what are the practical experiences of the lawyer. János Bánáti shared the Chamber's opinion on behalf of 15,000 lawyers and 3 000 chamber counsels, according to him, in addition to the introduction of the new institutions, the pursuit of objective justice seems to be pushed into the background, he explained that there is a need for a wide variety of changes compared to this law, so that measures for speeding up and efficiency do not render civil justice impossible again: do not render justice impossible, he pointed out that he does not consider the expression of a strong term to render justice impossible at all. As you said, the substantive trial at the Central District Court of Pesti took place in just barely a year, because the number of rejected cases became such an incredible proportion that it was virtually barely in a meaningful phase. He pointed out that there are often cases of rejection of the action for one reason, and that the re-trial is rejected again because of another, and then again and again, and this is repeated. The judges refer to the misworded legislation, the Ministry refers to the wrong application of the law, and the point of reference has started. The other major problem, according to Bánáti, is the introduction of the application form, which presents citizens with an unsolvable task. As you said, it is not expected that a client with no legal qualifications will fill it out, but if everyone goes to the court's complaint office, it would make it impossible for the courts, and obviously they didn't. The President of the Chamber clearly spoke of the bitter taste of legal chamber membership in relation to the new civil order. He also objected to the fact that the new Pp., which is static, is not possible, and that this also prevents the discovery of the truth. All the evidence must be placed on the table at the beginning of the trial and the defendant is therefore placed in a more advantageous position. In addition, there are a lot of unnecessary demands for the new civil order, which is a great extra burden for the client, the lawyer and the court together. But now let's look at some stats. Mr. Banat said that rejection of the action often occurs. According to the National Court Office, in the first four months of 2018, 37.5 percent of the completions were rejected, with a total of 2892 rejections out of 6893. At the same time, however, the number of actions submitted decreased by 30 percent, as the court process in the new Pp. was too complicated, the number of cases decreased, many even turning to lawyers, many did not accept a new action. Now, let's get back to what was the purpose of the new civil order: a new rule that promotes the effective enforcement of substantive rights, a clear, coherent regulation that takes account of the technical acquis, which facilitates the situation of law-seeking citizens and the professional community. Well, I'll ask you this: based on practical experience, these goals have been achieved, have you fulfilled the hopes attached to them? We can clearly say no. In practice, it is worse for customers, lawyers and judges, in almost all areas, the opinion that the year 1952 was the year III. Law was better than the current legislation, and I do not mean to say that at Rákosi, its legislators were able to do better, since the law was constantly changed and its rules were replaced by almost a hundred percent by 2016. But what would be the real purpose of the law? It is clear that customers are able to use the system of justice as quickly and as efficiently as possible and to enforce their rights and demands as soon as possible. In my opinion, this did not work with this law at all. But let's see if today's bill will make any progress. I am also sure that there is a need for an amendment to this, too, Minister Judit Varga spoke at the Justice Committee meeting, where he said that he was bleeding from several wounds, and that a lot of changes are needed to put this Pp in place. So one thing is certain: there is a need for an amendment. Many judges, lawyers, think it would be a much better solution if the Justice Department admitted the mistake that they made with this legislation and brought back the old Pp in its scope. the rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So, are we moving forward with this amendment that's been added here? Maybe, yeah. I do not wish to describe the changes in detail, I would like to highlight one in view of my time being cut short, namely what hurt the lawyers, the clients most, and this was a huge number of rejections. Did the government touch it with this proposal? Yeah, he's touching it. 77th draft. Point 3 of Section 3 states, and the Secretary of State also referred to this in his expozee that the Pp. 176. Paragraph 1 (j) and (l) shall be repealed. What is this (j) and (l)? According to point (j), the court may reject the application if it is not included in the civil order of 170. The applicant did not attach the content set out in Article 171 of the EC Treaty, nor did it attach the content of Article 171 of the EC Treaty. The Annexes provided for in paragraph 1. What's 170-171. §? What must be attached to the application and what must be included in the application. So even if it doesn't apply, you don't have to apply the rejection to the court now under the new rules, if a lawyer is filing the action, and that's really the way the Secretary of State said it was still the old Pp. it was not included, since the action brought by the lawyer had to be dismissed if the civil procedure was set at 121-124. It did not comply with the conditions laid down in its articles. The question of who the legislation corresponds to at the moment is a question. The Secretary of State said that the employees of the law had taken into account feedback. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll say one more sentence, Mr. President. I think that the opinions of the lawyers have indeed been taken into account here, but not of the judges; it is not certain that the withdrawal is better. Thank you very much, and I'll continue in an extra comment. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-21-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-59	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 CXXX on the new Rules of Procedure. Law, that is, the new Pp. It entered into force on 1 January 2018. There was a great need for a new procedural law, since until two and a half years ago, the bar was modified several times, but still in the year 1952, the year III. There was a law in force, that is to say, a lawsuit created on a Stalinist basis, which was stained, although we have just heard the praise of this lawsuit created on a Stalinist basis by the rightful lead speaker, and we know from the Scriptures by the evangelist Mark, that no one will cut a stain from a new garment, because he would destroy the new one, and I wouldn't fit the new stain. We also know that we shouldn't pour new wine into an old hose, because the new wine would tear the hose apart, causing the wine to spill, and the hose would be ruined. Well, that's what happened to the civil order, the old Pp. It was created two generations ago as a reflection of communist ownership and Stalinist social relations. [[15.40]] Because of these facts, the old Pp. Despite its patchwork, it has not given us the opportunity to regulate the lawsuit of Hungary that is already free, in accordance with the interests of the Hungarian people, axion. Although, after the change of regime, the Parliament changed the Pp., the civil order almost a hundred times, but the consequences of all of this became what the Scriptures say: the new wine also broke, and the old hose also broke. Ladies and Gentlemen, This is why the CXXX of 2016 on the Civil Procedure was of great importance to Hungarians. Law, that is, the new Pp. its professional creation, debate and vote in Parliament and its entry into force on 1 January 2018. The new Pp. Based on the experience of nearly two and a half years since its entry into force, taking into account the feedback of the professional order and the Curia, T/13257 was born. The purpose of this proposal is, on the one hand, to make it easier for law-seeking citizens and organisations to go to court, thereby simplifying litigation and reducing the administrative burden on the parties. On the other hand, the purpose of the bill is to make the rules of litigation for the preparation of the lawsuit more flexible, thereby reducing the formality of the procedure and expressly helping the parties acting without a legal representative. The aim of the bill is, thirdly, to facilitate the enforcement of the parties in the second instance procedure and to make Pp more balanced. the division of labour between the district court and the court by amending its rules of competence. The aim of the bill is, on the one hand, to establish new procedural rules to ensure better protection of the interests of underage children in family lawsuits and to introduce additional specific procedural rules taking into account the specificities of family lawsuits. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said in the exposé of the Minister of State for Justice, Mr Barabás, and in the keynote speech of my fellow Member, Gyula Budai Fidesz, which I agree with, and which speeches have covered all the details of the amendment of the law, but I would like to draw your attention to just a few things. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill seeks to increase the scope of property lawsuits falling within the jurisdiction of the court, regardless of the value of the case, in order to achieve a more optimal division of cases between district courts and the court. It is also intended to ensure a more optimal division of cases between the district court and the court that, as from 1 January 2021, legal person and their representative's responsibilities, legal disputes arising from securities and international freight and international transport lawsuits fall within the competence of the Tribunal. The bill also seeks to reduce the administrative burden of litigation on the part of the parties. To this end, it intends to make the application of the statutory cost list form optional. It should also be pointed out that, in order to simplify the opening of proceedings, the bill seeks to reduce the number of content elements of the application. The bill also seeks to facilitate the success of the trial by making it compulsory for the judge in the case to issue a request for compensation to the applicant in the event of a failure of the application. The bill was also in the interest of the defendant. In the interests of the defendant, it would simplify the content of the claim and allow counterclaims and set-off proceedings to be completed. In order to clarify the legal consequences of the use of unlawful means of proof, the bill also states at a normative level that the inclusion of an infringement means of proof does not exempt the party from its liability in the context of unlawful conduct. Ladies and Gentlemen, As you can see, the amendment of the civil order is purely technical, and behind it lies the intention of improving the individual legal order by submitting the bill itself, by Minister for Justice Judit Varga. Despite all these facts, you can hear the ominous siren sounds again. You can hear these siren sounds again from the opposition benches, or left pews. You hear it again, because they basically cry back the old Pp, the Stalinian-based Pp. That's what we heard from Jobbik's congressman. Ladies and Gentlemen, These words can be heard from those behind the attacks on Hungary in Brussels. They apply open pressure and double standards. However, we, we, the Fidesz-KDNP, believe in the rule of law. We, the Fidesz-KDNP, believe that a more effective civil procedure has an important role to play in maintaining our basic values. Therefore, we, the Fidesz-KDNP, consider it extremely important that access to justice and the procedure itself be made easier so that lawsuits themselves do not go disproportionately. We, the Fidesz-KDNP, regard this freedom, security and justice Pp as important to them and Pp. - If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, we support the 2016 CXXX on civil procedure. T/13257 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-21-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I'd like to speak as an honest siren voice after you. Honestly, I'm a little surprised. I am a little surprised that, listening to this late hour, Mr Secretary of State, we have, by the way, made a very substantial and professional summary of the matter. I'm sure you've had a part in that. I would like to put this conversation or this kind of parliamentary general debate back in the lane that we really need to talk about, because we also think it is an extremely important issue. It is clear that in the last two years there has been something wrong with this thing, and if I understand correctly, you have accepted it with this amendment of the law, you have said it, you will undertake it. There's no shame in that. There's no shame in that. It's sometimes harder for a proud political party, but believe me, when they start, it'll be a lot easier to go on this path. It is clear that these procedures have decreased by 25 percent over the past period, and it can be seen that we have said this many times, and we have tried to indicate in recent times that this has not only been extremely difficult for laymen, but also very often for educated lawyers and courts. [[15.50]] We don't know how much the coronal virus epidemic has contributed to it, but we're sensing it, and I'm telling you again, if I understand this correctly, somewhere you'll accept that this kind of reduction obviously means that the procedures here need to be clarified and refined. For our part, I would like to say this once again, and I would also like to continue by saying that the professional preparation or presentation on behalf of Secretary General Hajas has been so thorough that I do not want to go into this right now. I would like to welcome the change in the rules on custody lawsuits. If you remember the earlier debate, the Hungarian Socialist Party has already indicated that they are trying to apply extremely permanent rules here. I would like to say that sometimes we would like to see the amendments read on time, and we would have won two years with this. But the message to the public is that even if it's slow, the good and the useful can get in. We would also like to welcome what reduces the burden of work, administrative time, and what has been thoroughly explored here can also make this law accessible, understandable and acceptable to the lay parties. I would also like to point out here that we had proposals on this matter, which were not accepted at the time. I just heard what a significant group is dealing with in Pp. with its reform. It is worth considering this then, and let us hope that this will be significantly more effective if we adopt it now. I think that there is a reason for increased government attention here, and I may not say that much, I will not cross a opposition and pro-government border if I say that if you think that it is worth coming back more quickly if we continue to see problems. There are a few, really just a few little things I'd like to draw attention to. 13 of the proposal. In paragraph 2 of this Article, the parts of the application which may be refused shall be reduced. In this connection, we have some dilemma as to how specific this kind of list is suitable for the courts to act here on this basis. We have a feeling it's the old Pp. They could've done that. With these kind of specific things, we do not know that we are actually crossing the line by which this refusal is reduced. We consider it very, very important, especially here, during this epidemic period, which is not likely to change, that the deadlines for the order for payment procedure have been reduced. While we understand the justification, the justification is, in fact, somewhere, I say that it could be acceptable or could be, but yet I think that this is a typical form of recovery, a very typical decision. I would like to ask or suggest that you consider that, if appropriate, this kind of time limit would not enter into force here, even in a transitional period. The other is the cost of litigation or more precisely: it is a question of cost reductions. I'm also referring to the epidemic here. Here, too, I would refer to the social situation in which a significant part of the country is present, which is obviously less likely to be met by you, but by Pp. among those subject to it, there are many who live in extremely difficult conditions. Perhaps it would be worth giving some other thought to the cost reductions. What is a very sensitive and difficult issue is about the use of unlawful means of proof in court. There are very delicate cases where there is almost no other way to prove it. Here, as I see it, they are trying to lay down rules on legal consequences in some way. In this regard, we could support a bolder and more decisive step. Overall, I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, that, despite all the critical sentences I have formulated here, we can support and support this kind of amendment. We would like to ask you very briefly to summarize what we would like the government to clarify. So what does the government intend to do to stop a significant reduction in civil litigation? Besides, what we're going to accept here, will you take any further steps? Are you planning to extend the cost reductions in view of the crisis? Is there a further proposal during the preparation of the application of the law that, where appropriate, does not apply to this matter in this framework, but in an additional framework? Have you examined the fact that you have assessed why different court practices differ so much? Is there a possibility, where appropriate, to coordinate these judicial practices? But overall, I would like to point out that the Socialist Party is very likely to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-21-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think we should start this evaluation conversation by recording for the record that you, the honourable party or government, have screwed this up very significantly. Let's not go further, because, yes, this is an important circumstance as to how this law was born four years ago, why we need to talk about the fact that there is a lot of bug fixes in such a thick material; which is right and good and can be supported, and we can highlight the positive benefits of these, because it will indeed positively affect thousands of citizens. Only this situation wouldn't have come up if four years ago the original law of that time, the new Pp, hadn't been born the way it was. Here, my fellow Member, Gyure, gave a long list of events around his birth. So let us record this because, of course, we can be glad that this package of laws is now correcting a number of errors, it is very good, it is very commendable, only these errors are caused by you, honourable MPs, and by the government itself, and for years it has made it difficult for thousands of people to sue, and thousands of people have been wronged by the law that you adopted in this House four years ago. That is the fact, my dear gentlemen, that is the case. We would like to hear, for example, who is responsible for the fact that this is the case, perhaps, that he has made a road map on his feet now, when it finally came to light, that you have finally come to your senses that this cannot go on, and that you have now put in this package of laws, an amendment package. So, let's record this: if the laws are born this way, and during the last ten years of Fidesz, laws have been passed on a regular basis, and in one day, serious laws have been adopted, if they are born this way, then this will be the result. I have also written this down for myself, which we have already heard in this House, that for three years in the preparatory process there have been over a hundred professionals working on a better law, which, as it is, has been thrown out and replaced by this other one. So this is how you govern, so let's record this as common knowledge, this will be the result. If you look at the opposition contributions and reactions at the time when this law was being passed, let us say so, then the opposition representatives also said that, gentlemen, this will not be good for this and, therefore, it will not be useful. Yet you have walked into this thing, and now we are here to correct what you have mistakenly brought here. The point is that what is included in the proposal, and boasting that there is a one-year professional and long social consultation behind it, I believe that freely, that is very good, only before the law that was adopted, there was a three-year long professional consultation, and then there was no effect. However, the end is that, of course, a significant part of the proposals are good for people, good for citizens, we have to say this, really corrects a lot of mistakes, thank God, we finally got here. There's a lot of positives, they've mentioned specifics before. Let me list one or two for the sake of fairness: the formal requirements of the application are reduced, let us say now, the form is settled by the law, or at the time of paper delivery, the problem of the return of the return ticket after the prescribed deadline, or the enforcement service fee should no longer be deposited by the court, but paid directly to the Hungarian Chamber of Executives. So there are forward-looking, good, useful, absolutely positive parts of this bill for citizens, and yet the point of every bill is that citizens' lives will be better with it. So that's what they do. However, I would like to say one or two of those, a negative or a question or a problem that we are still discovering and seeing in this proposal. [[16.00]] One of these is that you claim in one of the paragraphs of the bill that those demolition lawsuits will be simpler or easier, where otherwise there is no mutual agreement. We do not see this in this bill, what is the guarantee that these will really be easier. That's what the justification says, or we found it, but we don't see the legal guarantee of it, so to speak. If that is the case, then, of course, it will again subscribe to the positive points of the law, so to speak, but I tell you, we do not see that in the text itself. Or there is an amendment that, in the context of a change of action, a counterclaim or a change of defence, the related statements of action, so if the person makes a statement which he could only make to a judicial appeal, but he does so, the statement thus made will be null and void. For example, we do not see this as justified or fair, so to say, we believe that this is a completely unjustified restriction. I could say such things, but it is much more important in addition to, or beyond, professional positives and negatives that the general attitude of the government to justice and how this proposal appears in it. It still seems that the government does not understand that the effectiveness of justice does not simply depend on how many lawsuits or how many proceedings there are, or how quickly they end, but would be a much more important indicator that citizens who start them or who are involved in these proceedings feel that a good decision is made in their case, that the judicial decision is justified, that it is of good quality. One of the key aspects of the quality of these judicial decisions is predictability, the fact that the decision actually has predictable, clear rules, can be clearly applied, only takes into account the legally relevant facts, and the rest. But the practice shows that in the last ten years there has been deterioration in this area, which is because there are numerous surveys, so there is also factual research, and there are also subjective indications of justice, that the external-internal influence on the courts, the judgment, the decision of the judges, has become significant. I think it is an external influence that I can talk about political pressure outside the judicial system and internal pressure, or internal problems affecting their independence. We have talked a lot about this in connection with other laws and other matters, but we also need to record here that we want a good and effective justice system, but the independence of the judges is facing ongoing challenges. We know what's going on in this country. Two days ago, we chose or elected by this House, under the pressure of Fidesz, a new head of the city, the new judge, who has no experience of judgment, only one criterion was that for nearly ten years Péter Polt, the chief prosecutor, had the right-hand man, slavishly executed the instructions, did not act in matters relating to various companies linked to Fidesz or close to Fidesz, and all this concerns the functioning, efficiency, judgment and the work of the judges. Obviously, Secretary of State will say that this specific law has little to do with this before us, there is truth in that, but if we are talking about the state of justice, about how we can make it better and more effective, for example, with this law, let us also talk about it. Yes, the independence of judges and justice is at risk, yes, it is worsening, and these stories have been about this in recent times. A word like a hundred, so in this system, in this political mood, we have to interpret this bill, which is in front of this House, and I say, in addition to the numerous efforts to correct errors, there are very serious problems with the functioning of justice, and there are very serious problems with how the government deals with these errors and situations, and how it acts with its arrogance in these matters, and how it distorts the system for citizens to end up with a simple and effective justice system. DK is the main problem with this law and this situation, so in addition to a number of specific professional problems, with the political situation that this has caused, as you have accepted and dealt with in the past. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-21-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech, and I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-21-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer the question raised by my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey. He basically said he claimed that I praised Stalin's 1952 Pp. in my speech. That was not at all the point in my speech as a keynote speaker, and I ask Mr Vejkey, if you are referring to me, to what I have said, at least pay more attention to what I am saying. I didn't say that. I have said that the executives of the profession, who deal with this every day, have already been told by many, the majority has indicated, and unfortunately this is your criticism that the year 1952 III. Law was better for citizens and courts and lawyers than for the subsequent Law of 2006. That's not an opinion, that doesn't mean that I glorified the Stalin civil order, not to mention that you know very well that the year 1952 was the year III. The law is only in the name of 1952, since it has practically been completely replaced with the regime change and since then there is no trace of anything in it concerning the Stalin era. What else did you say? I will try to quote it literally:. We consider civil order based on freedom and security to be important. Mr. Vejkey, this is literally not true, what you said! Well, how is it that you didn't think it was important for 12 years, so how can you say you think it's important now? ! Or have they changed their minds that much? As far as I know, Viktor Orbán and his government, Fidesz and KDNP were in power from 1998 to 2002, and then from 2010 to 2020, so they did not touch it for 12 years. So it wasn't important for you to have a rule of law based on freedom and security for 12 years? Thank you very much.
u2020-10-21-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will also be held by Mr Gyula Budai of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-67	Thank you very much, Mr President. I gave myself another chance to get into Parliament for a professional debate. I can tell you this here, apart from my colleague Gyure, we may be the ones with a more serious legal history. I have spent 22 years on this course, and this is the manyth legislation here in the House's walls, when opposition parties are trying to look the government in the eye with political arguments, not professionally, at things that I think are as far away from Mako Jerusalem. So what I would like to ask you is that I really believe that this is either the second or the third draft law, the last debate on conditional imprisonment, where there are not legal arguments, but political arguments. Please get someone out of that faction, DK, MSZP, too. Gergely Bárándy's absence will never be replaced by MSZP from a professional point of view. Here, for the second time, I have heard arguments from DK that have nothing to do with the legislation. Let's try to have a professional debate with each other, and I'm very happy to be a partner. I know that you have completed two years of law, but that does not give you the right to rise to professional heights that you do not even know you are eating or drinking. Seriously, let's argue professionally. My fellow Member, Mr Gyüre, perhaps if he had not spoken for 13 and a half minutes about legal history, we might have come to the profession, but I have summarized at the end of my speech as general speaker what the goals of the law have been achieved so that we may be able to generate a professional debate in Parliament. So I'm a partner in this, but the fact that we come in with these flashbacks and these empty phrases, and I don't know, Pp 52. It was better to bring Professor János Németh here. Mr. Gyüre, I took his exam, and I don't think you did. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Me too.]] Congratulations, then. Then you know very well how high János Németh put the criteria set out in the then Pp. [[16.10]] So I think that we should continue our professional debate, because I have not heard a lot of professional arguments from you in the last 40 minutes. I'm sitting here, trying to take notes, but nothing I can say is going to be discussed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-68	Thank you very much, and I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the two-minute speech is very thought-out because it is quickly out of time. Imre Vejkey is next for a two-minute speech.
u2020-10-21-69	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I would just like to answer the points raised by my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre. In view of the fact that Fidesz-KDNP has indeed been in government before, as you said, between 98 and 2002, but if you remember correctly, Member, we did not have a two-thirds majority. Then, in 2010, the voters decided to want a real change of regime, then they gave Fidesz-KDNP a two-thirds majority, and with this two-thirds majority, obviously we did not have to start with Pp. at first, but with XX in 1949. The law, which was once again born in the shadow of Russian-Soviet bayonets, was once again a Stalinist fundamental law, and it was the basic law that overthrew our entire legal system. And after finally being able to create a Fundamental Law worthy of the Hungarian nation, the Easter Fundamental Law, as the people say, it was then possible to apply other substantive rights and then procedural law, including civil order. The unworthy attack you did here a day and a half ago was elected by Zs Varga. Against the President of András Curia, that is completely unworthy. This is completely unworthy, especially in view of the fact that the Judicial Committee itself has examined this issue and, not on a political basis, but on a professional basis, looked at whether the candidate was qualified or not. Unfortunately, this cannot be said about the National Judicial Board, he made a clear decision on a political basis and did not investigate the person. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Instead, the Constitutional Court has taken a constitutionally objectionable decision, which can be challenged by the laws in force. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-70	Thank you very much. Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-71	Thank you very much. Just to respond to Gyula Budai, because he practically spoke to me in person. Thank you very much, and I am honored that Congressman is reading my résumé somewhere. I, too, have the pleasure of knowing your work. He has so much professional knowledge, that maybe you're the one who brought thousands of lawsuits as some sort of government commissioner, as a prime minister, one of which, perhaps, if he ran out in the end, but not even there, so this professional knowledge, let's say, has come this far. But more important than that, did I say anything that wasn't true? It wouldn't have been true how Pp was born. four years ago, how many people worked on it, how everyone criticized it on the professional side even at the moment of its birth and ever since? I have said nothing but the facts, honourable Member, the facts; it may not be professional enough for you. And by the way, in Parliament, well, politics is a terrible thing. It's this way. We are in conflict politically on this matter, for example, in this case we are in terrible conflict, because what happened was what I just said in eleven minutes, exactly those facts, and I understand that this mirror is very ugly what you see in it, honourable Member, but that is what it is. That's the thing. Please accept it, we hope there will be other ways. Thank you. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-10-21-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[For signal:]] I have no opportunity to speak for another two minutes, because only one member of a faction has the opportunity to do so, Congressman. I would also like to address Congressman Csaba Gyüre, with all due respect, to ask everyone to put personal matters in the background. Congressman Csaba Gyüre is next. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise I won't be personal, but I'm forced to answer. Gyula Budai suggested that we referred only to political aspects, especially my speech, which was teeming with political considerations in the same way as the debate on conditional imprisonment. You must have spoiled the use of words here, my honourable fellow Member. No, but he wants to hear a professional debate, and then I ask him whether the opinion of János Németh was a professional argument or a political argument. Members of the expert committee, who prepared this bill, did they give a political opinion or an expert opinion? The vice-president of the National Bar Association, Mr Kázmér Kovács, whom I referred to, his suggestions, did he give a political opinion or a professional opinion? János Bánáti, president of the Hungarian Bar Association, whom I quoted, whom I referred to, did he express professional opinions or political opinions? Dear fellow Member, In my speech, I almost exclusively put forward professional arguments, and I put forward professional reasons for what it is that proves that, indeed, this legislation is not good. I think it hurts that, after a short period of time, a law needs to be amended, in fact admitting that it was a mistake when it was made, no, but it also comes to the best of the will, and it has to be taken into account. Imre Vejkey, my fellow Member, what can I say? My fellow Member... Okay, I'm sorry, I almost got personal. Who makes the political decision? The Hungarian National Assembly, the Judicial Committee or the National Judicial Council? I understand that political decisions are being made in Parliament, that politicians are sitting on the Justice Committee, that they will decide, and unfortunately, the biggest problem is that these decisions are usually made on a political basis, not on a professional basis. That's exactly where the problem comes from. And you are the one who says that a political decision will be made in the National Judicial Council, when all the members of the OBT in the court organisation unanimously form an opinion that they vote against the person of András Varga Zsolt? ! Obviously, it was a professional opinion, and obviously it wasn't just by chance voted by the pro-government majority on the Justice Committee by Vejkey András Zsolt's identity, but again this is not part of this current bill. Mr Barnabás Hajas, State Secretary, said that difficulties arise naturally with a new law. I agree perfectly with you, and it's natural that a law can't be perfect right away. If we were born to create perfect, then I think... well, it wouldn't be a good thing for this world, it wouldn't be better, but we might be able to come up with better things. He also said that judges should be trained in the application of the law. That is also true, but let us not assume that judges who have been sitting there for ten, twenty, thirty or forty years will not be able to apply a new law when they see it. And here again, I refer to the point of pointing at each other, which may have been that we did not think so, legislators, and the judges say that, yes, and that is what it says here, I am obliged to apply it. I can't agree with this, because what I said in the speaker's speech clearly shows that there is no need for fine-tuning here, and there is a fundamental need to make changes here. By the way, I repeat that Minister for Justice, Judit Varga, acknowledged this at the meeting of the Judicial Committee when we heard him on this point. And yes, he said that the reason why we're about to change the civil order is because there's a lot to change here. And I'd like to refer to the fact that we still don't know how much change we have to make. It is therefore necessary to see that there are several stages of the rules of procedure, and it is really the stage in which there is already experience. There is not so much experience at the later stage, there is no experience in the second-degree procedure, there is no experience in the appeal hearing. So there's gonna be a lot more going on here in the future, and there's gonna be a lot of changes, I think. This is just the first step, the first correction, but there will be some changes here. [[16.20]] And how are there any positives in this law? It's quite clear that you do. My fellow Members have also said so. Yes, for example, the possibility of a personal hearing, the change in the time when the application will be rejected by the court. Obviously, that was also necessary. It is another matter, and it is possible to argue that the position of the Bar Association has taken place here, or that it is the professional position of the court. The court is certain that it has not said that the application submitted by the lawyers should also focus on filling in the gap rather than rejecting it. So there's no way that the court said that, because for many years the courts have fought to have this opportunity not to lecture a lawyer who's been executed a hundred and twenty-three times what an application should contain. It is perfectly natural that a party acting without a legal representative should be required. Another question is that this is a bit to refer to my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, as he said, as a step backwards from Stalinist Pp. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Then there are facilitations in the area of change of action and in the area of change of defence. This is also to be approved, family-law facilitations are certainly welcome, as are the changes to the lawsuits of origin, changes to the janitorship. So basically, I see that this direction is indeed a good direction at the moment, that it is indeed a better direction, and I see that, despite all the criticisms that we have criticised the Fundamental Law, the law adopted in 2016, this is in any case a step forward, and we will therefore support it in any way. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-21-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I would ask you to write the name of the new President of the Curia as András Varga Zsolt. There was a little slip. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I apologize.]] No problem, it happens. I am now asking Congressman Gyula Budai to apply for a second speech or two minutes, because he is registered for both. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: I was doing normal.]] Then I'll give you the floor for a repeat speech. Here you go.
u2020-10-21-75	I see that the debate is getting back to normal, because Congressman Gyüre has already highlighted professional aspects. Let me tell you a few things, too, because I think that's why I stayed here today to argue about the profession, and not about the election of the President of the Curia, and about the National Council of Judges, and I don't know who made the decision, but I think we should talk about Pp. For some reason, I think that it is very important to refine the rules of competence, in this case the division of the district court and of cases falling within the jurisdiction of the court. And here I have also listed, so to speak, exceptions under which the jurisdiction of the court is to deal with legal persons and their representatives' liability on the grounds of membership or representation, legal proceedings on securities and international freight and international freight. I therefore think that there has indeed been a fine-tuning of the rules of competence here, which is certainly forward-looking in this case, but, as has already been said here, and this, I think, makes the procedure much easier to proceed, making the application of the statutory cost list form optional in relation to charging the party acting with the legal representative. I think that I may have spoken a little Chinese now, but whoever is in the profession understands the role of this in the procedure in essence, or it is very important that, in the case of a lack of content and form of the application, it makes it compulsory to issue a request for replacement. This is also a very important thing, I think, because we haven't really seen it before. In fact, as my fellow Member Gyüre said, he simplifies the content of the defendant's defence and, under the conditions laid down, allows counterclaims and offsets to be presented under the conditions laid down until the trial is closed. I think that anyone who has been involved in civil litigation as a lawyer knows that this is, in essence, a refinement of this matter. In addition, on the basis of the feedback from the enforcement bodies, the bill allows the court to postpone the hearing before the scheduled deadline, but not later than eight working days after receipt of the subpoena. This is also a very important change in the previous procedure. And then, by the way, I could go through the very important changes that define the purpose of the whole concept. So I think, Mr House, that the Ministry of Justice has done a very good job. Those bodies, courts, Curia and various codification bodies have really tried to combine all their knowledge, and I would like to say that this new Pp amendment, free of policy and without any tone, really seeks to serve the aims of simple litigation, facilitating the work of the courts, and the possibility of proceeding with parties acting without legal representation. So I would certainly like to see a real professional decision taken in this legislative amendment. I saw that my colleague in DK was offended because I dared tell him that he went to college for two years. I say this no offense, but there are such professional considerations here; for a man goes somewhere to argue when he has knowledge, and does not read an opinion from a written paper, and thinks that he has done the whole thing. I really expect Parliament to make a decision on a professional basis, and that is why I said in any case that the Fidesz Group supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2020-10-21-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-21-77	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I think there are some points that should be answered in substance. I am very sorry that opposition representatives who have so far participated in this debate have left the Chamber. [[For signal:]] With one exception, they left the meeting room, and I might be able to give you some information that is important to them as well. I was surprised to note that Members in their comments were not so much talking about this bill, but, let us say, about the unity of case law in the judiciary, and were concerned about judicial independence. I don't know if you noticed that when Zsolt Varga was personally attacked by President-elect András Varga, a judge of the Curia, is being attacked by a council chairman. Interestingly, this is difficult for me to reconcile with the concern that would protect the court from being influenced by judges or from some kind of external influence on judges. I think it is very important to say that it should be included in the National Assembly Diary that at the meeting of the National Judicial Council, the only present judge of the Curia voted in favour of the election of András Varga in the roll-call vote. So the only one with a mansion experience did it. And last but not least, let us be clear about what it means to have judicial-law enforcement practices. And now I'm going to surprise you, in a product called Instant, say, pro-government bias, you've written a longer essay by a legal philosopher called Techet Péter, who explains why it's judgmental, why it's judgmental. He concludes his comment or writing by saying, however, that it is certainly interesting that a debate on the theory of law suddenly takes place, and those who argue against the candidate with a fidesz in the citation even unknowingly draw Schmitt's arguments about the sharp difference between constitutional justice and judicial judgment. [[16.30]] However, if the Constitutional Judge really is not a judge, not only should Zsolt András Varga be appointed, but they should also speak out against the whole model of constitutional justice in Kelsen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So it's a professional question, believe me. Judgement, judicial action, not to mention that the President-elect of the Curia was rapporteur judge in the review of the judgment of 900 individual judges in the Constitutional Court. There are very few judges outside the judiciary today, but only one who has been suspended from legal relations, who has already reviewed the judgment of the court. And it is very important that we have come to the question that Mr Sebian-Petrovsk has raised that there should be some way to ensure the unity of the case-law. Good afternoon. It's in the Fundamental Law. It's the Curia's job. I would add that it's the mansion's first order of business, and that's what makes the mansion a mansion. And just because the legislator noticed that last year the institution of the complaint in the legal unit was included, let's say, in connection with the administration of the court or in certain procedural laws, so that the parties could initiate the enforcement of their rights in the complaint procedure in the legal unit because of the fragmentation of the case law. That is to say, with effect from a specific case, from a party to a party, the unity of law should take place at the request of the parties, and it should not be up to the court. It was very interesting to hear the T/11900. The proposal for a series of civil lawsuits, adopted by Pp, was adopted. Interestingly, in the context of his debate, the MSZP and Jobbik's lead speaker said that there was no debate. I respectfully say that I cannot see an amending proposal from these parties in Parliament's IT system for some reason, so I am not sure that this suggestion is so well founded. And then, in the order in which the comments were made, I would like to reply in detail. I would like to inform Mr Gyüre that in 2015 a significant part of the expert material produced by Professor János Németh was included in the submitted text of the civil order, the adopted text. If you wish, you can go through this nicely, one by one. I think that what Mr President said about the codification process is a rather specific and one-sided approach. And I'd like to point out that we've been listening to law enforcement. We need to know that we have talked about a new procedural law, and we have talked about Pp., as opposed to Be., as opposed to the official procedural law, Ákr. or Kp., the big difference is that its basic dogmatical system has not now changed in substance in the individual technical rules, its dogmatical system from 52 to Pp. acceptance in 2016. In other words, regarding legal institutions, there was a very strong habit and attachment. In fact, here's a very interesting thing, I understand, in Congressman's family there is also a judge, that civil litigation judges are still here, as well as the new Pp. Until it was adopted, they liked to use an old Pp commentary, which was last published in the '70s. Three-volume, black Pp. commentary, which, by the way, had little to do with the specific rules, but in procedural dogmatic matters, he gave the judges a very strong lead. Now, when this procedural dogmatical environment has changed radically, as opposed to criminal proceedings, which can be said to have been renewed with a relative frequency of two decades, the law on public procedure was renewed in the same order of magnitude and every one and a half to two decades, the rules on administrative litigation were not in force, let alone for sixty years, after the change of regime, the Pp. CHAPTER XX The new Law on Administrative Procedure was adopted several times, and it was clear that it was much more adaptive to the range of those who applied these procedural laws, to the application of judicial law, to be a prosecutor, to be a legal representative. And yes, so it takes time, it took time for the new Pp. the introduction of its institution. And here it is worth noting that nothing better shows that fear or concern of the new one led to a reduction in the submission of the application than the fact that the same lawsuit has already been filed in 19 than in 16-17. So in the first four months of the year 18 there was a severe or spectacular statistical decline, and it is interesting to note that the numbers that talk about 30 plus 40 plus several percent rejection rates do not cover reality either. According to our statistics from OBH, this was about 14 percent. I think that this is a very important element, even though the Curia's case-law analysis group in its summary opinion, which is a very extensive, hundreds of-page study, it is worth reading that in a significant part of the rejection exercise it was still possible to see that Pp. There have been grounds for refusal which are not explicitly attributable to the text of the standard. To say that they were clearly not in line with the legislative intention or the related norm. And I would not refer here to the clause of the Fundamental Law on the interpretation of laws. He says the case-law analysis group, by the way, was placed on a basis that didn't follow from the text of the law, and they saw requirements that didn't come from the law. In the codification process, in particular, I would like to point out that, in the process of creating Pp.-novella, yes, judges were involved, many judges delegated by the President of the National Court of Justice were involved, and they fully agreed with the proposal. The vast majority of the provision of the bill was explicitly a judicial proposal, they were fully consulted with the judiciary, and, as such, the President of the OBH responsible for the central administration of the courts himself supported it. For the sake of safety, I would also like to respond in detail to the other comments, because I would not dare to leave those wrong foundations. Once again, Mr Molnár has indicated that very few lawsuits have been brought. This is not supported by the statistics led by the OBH, the annual civil economic litigation is above 200,000, and the mandatory Fmh value limit has been increased by the legislator, so many cases are caught up in a fmh phase. There was a professional question from Congressman Molnár about the fmhs. In the previous proceedings of fmh, the deadline for the submission of the defence was reduced because, in principle, it had already submitted its contradiction in the order for payment procedure, and it was able to prepare for the defence. I would like to point out to you that the result of the infringement is not Pp. It states that the Civil Code and Criminal Code, the Pp., should only refer to this. Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk was talking about screw-ups. Here I would like to point out that I see a marked difference between fine-tuning, fine-tuning based on the experience of law enforcement and mischief. And that's because over the past two and a half years, it's been revealed that a very large number of law enforcement employees have started to live in Pp. and we considered the amendment necessary only in those points in which it would be necessary to amend unanimously all legal professions. And these corrections, let us recall, both Minister Trócsányi and later, after his ministerial appointment, Minister Varga said that the provision of the legislative law that the Ministry examines its effectiveness and makes the necessary proposals in relation to its efficiency assessment applies in the context of all procedural laws. I would like to point out to Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, in connection with the split case structure, that in the European countries which introduced a split-option structure for the preparatory and substantive negotiation phase, in the years following the entry into force of the law, there has been, without exception, a minor or greater correction in each of them, including in Finland, Slovenia or even Romania. [[16.40]] You should know that the Pp adopted in 2016. dogmatic, conceptual legal institutions are not affected by the amendment, there is no change in the split structure of the lawsuit, no change in the principle of per-concentration, no change in the material conduct, even if someone is trying to show it this way. How can certain personal status lawsuits accelerate? In addition to the justification, the norm text would contain sufficient crutches. Orality is given greater scope in these proceedings, they are among the common rules, and, moreover, I mentioned in my exposé that there is also a new course of action, so there is no need to wait for a counterclaim to set a trial. I would also like to point out that, before the amendment, Mr Gyure had this in the Pp., I would like to say in his second substantive statement that the possibility of a personal hearing is not new in this respect, but I would also like to point out that it was an explicit judicial initiative to have the opportunity to remedy the deficiency in the case of the party acting with the legal representative. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] What? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: The judges are upset about this! The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, then your judge will select it, but I would like to say that we didn't invent these ourselves, in this regard it came from a very judicial side. I trust I've answered all the questions. For example, I would have liked to have heard my response to the unity of case law, and it would be very important once again, perhaps not for the last time, to say that attacking a judge in person in connection with the fear of judicial independence is, at least, a false thing. Yeah, I forgot to mention that Mr Sebian-Petrovsk is obviously so aware of the identity of the President-elect in Curia that he does not know that he has never acted in criminal matters, given that he was a public-law deputy to the Attorney General. So as such, personal reasoning, let's say, could have been prepared a little more thoroughly. The same approach was, by the way, in relation to his work, this thoroughness, this objectivity and factuality can be observed in the opposition benches. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-21-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Obviously, I can only speak to the person present in the Chamber. Accordingly, Mr Csaba Gyüre, from the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-21-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue what I started two days ago when I was talking about why the appointment of András Varga Zsolt poses a threat to democracy and why it was not a democratic solution that he became President of the Curia. In the previous debate, Parliamentary Secretary Barnabás Hajas described why the Constitutional Judge is also a judge and why he is doing a job that gives him the right to act as President of the Curia. Well, in our opinion, that's not true at all. And what is the fundamental difference between the two? The fact that the Constitutional Court is elected by politics is appointed by politics. In the last ten years, Fidesz-KDNP has largely had two thirds, which means that it has been able to decide on the person of the Constitutional Court alone and has been able to appoint judges to the Constitutional Court alone. And, well, what should we not say about the fact that politicians were actually there, because a Member of Parliament, an ex-minister, was appointed, and, yes, politics has affected the process of appointing constitutional judges, and this has often been far above professionalism. So it is clear that the Constitutional Judge, who has other conditions to meet when he is appointed as a judge, comes from the world of politics and is appointed from there by politicians, the politicians give him the authority, and it is clear that those appointed by Fidesz-KDNP have been appointed only with their support, almost without exception. On the other hand, a judge working in the courts does not come from the world of politics, he is not appointed by politics, but does submit a tender as a professional to the self-government bodies of the court, who will listen to him, who will qualify him on the basis of the statutory point system, and on this basis he will be put forward, and President János Áder has only and only the right of appointment in respect of judges. So we can establish that they are not put into the position of politics, but of professionalism. This is the most fundamental difference, and that is why he is questioning whether the President of the Curia, who has now been appointed, will be independent of politics at the time when he was brought in by politics as a judge of the Constitution and thus appointed. But there are other problems when we look at this, because they say another argument is how the President of the Curia affects the court system in one person. Well, it does have a serious impact on the court system, because there are countless things that he will influence. For example, it defines the distribution of cases within the Mansion, and so much can be influenced. Then he has a role to play in the election of the judges of the Curia, and that's how he can influence personnel policy. Then he has an important role to play in the National Judicial Council, as the President of the Curia is also an ex officio member of the National Judicial Council. But there is one more important aspect, and that is that the President of the Legal Unit Council is either him or his deputy, but it's up to him to decide that, and he also appoints the members to the Legal Unit Council. Why is the legal unit council important? Well, it's very important because he's going to determine what judgments are going to be issued in the country, because Fidesz-KDNP has moved the application of the law towards the precedent system over the past ten years. And that is why, precedents, decisions on legal unity will have a very important role to play in the judgments that will be handed down throughout the court system. In short, we can say that trust in the Curia is strongly questioned when a non-party person is appointed to the Curia, and we can say that constitutional judges are elected by politics, so that, even indirectly, they are appointed by politics, and such to come from outside, they have never occurred in the democratic system. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-21-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform the House that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on Monday 26 October 2020. Thank you for your week's work. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a good, good night and a happy home.
