u2020-11-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, to all of you. The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, László Földi and Csaba Gyure will help me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In 2009, the National Assembly recognised the Hungarian sign language as an independent natural language, then two years later, in 2011, with the adoption of the new Fundamental Law, its protection and recognition rose to the highest level. In 2017, the National Assembly unanimously declared 9 November to be the day of Hungarian sign language, recognising that Hungarian sign language is as valuable as any spoken language in the world. Our sign language is not only a living, changing and developing language, but also has the same national character as our mother tongue. Hungarian sign language is therefore an integral part of our culture, creating a bridge between deaf and hearing people. At least tens of thousands of hearing - impaired communities are familiar with and use it, while, happily, hearing people learn this language more and more year after year. In addition to helping each other understand and accept, sign language also promotes the exercise of the fundamental freedoms of our deaf and deaf compatriots. The social integration of this community and the understanding of its problems and difficulties, and, if necessary, its support, is not only our moral duty, but also our common interest. It is extremely important that the third largest linguistic minority in Hungary further enrich Hungarian society with its specific traditions and cultural values. Today we salute the members of this community, its value-making work and Hungarian sign language. Today we are all told to be together, to feel compassion, to listen to each other, and this is of particular importance in the shadow of the coronal virus epidemic. Let us, then, set an example of a united community of deaf and hard - hearers, take care of one another, and help one another. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause. Some of the congressmen are clapping in sign language.]] Thank you very much. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Bence Tordai and everyone who has chosen this type of greeting, that he has done so in a manner appropriate to the deaf and hearing. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We will start our work today with speeches before the agenda, after which we will have a two-hour session of immediate questions and answers, and we will end today's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Bence Tordai, from the Group on Dialogue, spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I am pleased that the Orbán government has finally taken up its proposals for disease management of the Dialogue two weeks ago. I would say that it was time, but we are actually already late, and it would have been good if they had done what had to be done weeks ago, but in any case, we have finally caught up with the rest of Europe's responsible defence countries. For this reason, it must have been hard for the government to face up to their dogmas. But maybe it's worth a little looking back that two weeks ago, when we put out a very similar epidemic package to the public, what we got from the Fidesz State Secretarys, the Fidesz Media, the Fidesz Reality Explainers; we were nothing but decent people. Well, it has now been proven that what Szabó Timea and Dialogue have represented in the last few weeks is the only responsible attitude towards disease management. However, I regret that we still haven't been able to fully face reality. In his announcement this morning, Viktor Orbán said that we are two weeks behind Austria, as regards the spread of the epidemic. Well, the bad news is, we're way ahead of Austria in terms of the number of diseases and deaths. If we look at the data for the last 14 days, we look at the current epidemic situation, then according to the official ECDC numbers, the third worst situation is in Hungary. In the Czech Republic there were 24.5 deaths in 14 days for 100,000 inhabitants, 18,5 deaths in Belgium and 10.4 deaths in Hungary; there is no other country in Europe than these three, where there are two figures of deaths per 100,000 in the last 14 days. The Austria that is supposed to be two weeks ahead of us, according to Orbán, causes 3.8 deaths for hundreds of thousands of people, i.e. 3.8 in Austria, 10.4 in Hungary. These restrictions were made much earlier in Austria, and they are much more responsible in Austria. It would be good if Austria had actually been seen as a laboratory, whether in terms of restrictions or in terms of the preparation of the health care system, but the point is that the Prime Minister has finally announced measures that we responsible opposition politicians, who have been in favour of tightening up, can agree with. But the package that Viktor Orbán announced today is very semi-lateral. Because there are restrictions, but only the epidemic is being dealt with by this series of measures, the economic and social crisis that destroys the fabric of our society and our economy after the epidemic, has not been resolved in almost no way. The demands that we, dialogueists and opposition politicians have also made over the last few weeks, here in Kossuth Square an hour ago, the vast majority of them have not yet been built in. So I'm asking you to keep your good habits in the government and to accept common, legitimate, well-founded, responsible opposition demands and proposals. I'll tell you what you need to do to deal with this economic crisis after the epidemic. [[István Szilárd Németh: Modestly!]] First of all, we need an extension of pay, and 50 percent is not enough, we need at least 80 percent. Family allowances should also be raised, as families with families, families with young children, are now in the most difficult situation. The period and amount of entitlement to unemployment benefit should be increased, as the entire opposition has been demanding since spring. There is also a need to increase the amount in the case of sick leave to 100 per cent net, i.e. to about 75 per cent gross, and to extend it to anyone unable to enter their work because of the epidemic situation. [[11.10]] And finally, what the Dialogue proposes alone is the most important of all, since it affects everyone, it helps everyone who is in trouble, the introduction of basic income for crisis management. Basic income, basic pension, no matter how old you are, you cannot be a person in Hungary during a crisis period whose income is less than HUF 100,000 per month; you must not be a child after whom the value of state aid is less than HUF 50,000. So far, income needs to be recovered. And if you're not spending money on recapitalisation of your friends again, but on making people's incomes safe in these very difficult times, then there's money for it, so I'm asking you to accept our economic crisis management proposals as well. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, the epidemic continues to rage in the world, and it will not spare Europe or Hungary. The number of people infected exceeded 50 million and died 1 million and 250 thousand people, so the situation is serious. The Hungarian health care has taken serious steps to prepare for the previous months: we are among the first in terms of the proportion of the ventilators, and this is also true for hospital beds. We also have excellent experts, and together they provide a good basis for protection, but as epidemiological experts warn of further increase in infection numbers, it is an essential goal, and it is essential that we reduce the number of diseases and reduce the burden on doctors and nurses. That is why new decisions had to be taken, and Austria is a truly important reference point for us in this regard, also because it is a week or two ahead of us in the course of the epidemic. The Prime Minister also agreed with Chancellor Kurz on the experience there; the government also made the decisions announced today on this basis, the most important of which are the following. There will be a curfew between 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. All gatherings are forbidden. Restaurants close, only delivery is possible. The shops, hairdressers and other small-scale service providers close at 7:00 p.m. There's a general non-event ban coming into effect. Sports matches can be held behind closed gates. Recreational facilities - fitness room, swimming pool, museums, theatres, zoos must be closed. Higher education can only operate online and colleges, colleges of higher education, must also be closed. In secondary schools, digital education takes place above the 8th grade. For all this, the Parliament must give its approval. The government announced the extraordinary legal order, which the Parliament must confirm tomorrow; this also means strengthening the measures announced today. This extraordinary legal order allows for swift and immediate action. With regard to economic measures, I do not know that you have heard it, because it has happened in the last hour, but the Prime Minister has agreed with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and in the case of hotels, 80 percent of the reservations made until 8 November in the first 30 days after closing will be reimbursed by the State. The condition of this is that no workers are dismissed. Restaurants and leisure facilities will be valid for 30 days after their employees because this measure, which has just been notified, does not have to pay contributions and the State will reimburse half of the workers' wages. This is also subject to the condition that the worker is not dismissed. As far as your policy is concerned, we have talked several times about basic income and other aspects, and I would just like to say briefly to you that the tax increase that your mayor is flirting with or thinking about is not a solution. Extending the relief system is not the solution, because we would go back to the time when it is more worth living on aid. Now, that's a 12-percent unemployment. We regretted in the last few months that the left-wing parties and your mayor were in the lead in this regard. If you had to choose between action and discrimination, you always chose to take responsibility, and there was a lot more mourning, sometimes on Facebook, sometimes in the studio of ATV, than meaningful action. There are so many changes, we have to add that they want to launch a testing program. This, in itself, is a good sign, but if you can suggest something, especially when it comes to tests, you should always consult with the epidemiological experts. I'm saying this because yesterday, the mayor was heavily involved in the Public Health Center. So if we can make a suggestion, as politicians, they don't want to know better what to do about dealing with the epidemic. We do not want to override, in any case, the position of the CDC experts. Moreover, there is also work to be done in the field of transport: flights must be compressed and, as a temporary measure, crowds on flights had to be reduced, free parking had to be re-introduced. We ask you not to hinder these measures, but to help them implement them. If there's anything we can ask in this situation [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] put aside party politics and do their part in the fight against the virus in at least the most difficult days. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Péter Ungár, from the LMP Group, with the title Social Work Day, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to begin by saying hello to Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, and I am very pleased that he has succeeded in overcoming the epidemic and I wish him good health. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank you very much. Applause.]] The fact is, once again, the people who have been doing one of the most difficult work in the institutions at risk of epidemics since the beginning of the epidemic have been left out of this announcement. They are the social workers. In addition, you introduced the day of social work on 12 November, so there is no counter-argument, there is no sane reason why you should not give the one-off HUF 500,000 salary supplement to social workers who are heroically, the worst paid Hungarian state employees every day. The fact is that healthcare workers, who deserved the one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement, received this pay supplement on Semmelweis Day, so clearly on the day of social work, you can do nothing but transfer the one-off HUF 500,000 to people who work in institutions from which you believe you are still under more than a hundred infections. The fact is that we have had a lot of debates on how the wage level of social workers has changed, and on my previous immediate question, Secretary Philip said that the wage level of social workers has increased significantly and that the average wage is above HUF 300 thousand. Social workers were outraged at this statement because it does not reflect the material reality, the reality that their salary paper means every month. In recent years, I have received several payroll papers, which show that, behind all sorts of statistics, someone who works in a state institution in West Hungary with a degree of 11 years of work is looking for 153 515 HUF. This means that someone who works in social services with a 12-year working relationship and a higher education degree will receive 173 473 HUF with a family tax reduction after two children. This means that a person currently receives 163 844 forints in Hungary with 25 years of work. [[11.20]] Or someone with 20 years of work, working as a family assistant, managing director, gets 220 thousand forints net. So this is the top of the payroll. These are the people who are leaders in social work. But if you start fresh now, you have four years of employment and work in social care, you get 172 590 forints. So these are the real wages behind the EMMI statistics. The fact is that the one-off wage supplement of HUF 500,000 will not settle their wage situation forever. Although if you've seen what social workers have written on the side of MKSZ, what I'd spend a one-time pay supplement on, you'd see that I'd spend it on new dentures, glasses, gifts for the child, or maybe a few days on vacation, things that a social worker should allow in a normal country. The fact is that you still cannot explain to this day why the social sector has been left out of all measures, why, apart from the various production reporting announcements of EMMI, people who do one of the most beautiful jobs in nursing homes, disability care, home assistance or homeless care have received nothing. For you, the social sector is important if it can be politicalised, if it can be used to identify different political responsibilities, but when these people should be valued, it is not important. Minister Kásler said that because of the economic performance, social workers will not receive the one-off wage supplement. It would be HUF 45 billion, even according to the EMMI figures, this is a one-time pay supplement. You spent more than 45 billion on everything, spent more on the MotoGP course in Hajdú County, spend more on public media, and spend a thousand more on things that deserve a lot less money. Overall, I would therefore ask Mr State Secretary, when he stands up now, not to hide behind statistics, not to say panels, but to tell me once and for all why social workers will not receive the one-off HUF 500 000 salary supplement and what argument they have, which leaves this sector out of all measures, and which has left the social sector unaccounted for in the last ten years. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your good wishes, Mr President, which you did not only publicly but personally when you learned about my illness. Thank you very much, very much, and this is a good example of Parliament's human cooperation. On the subject of your speech, honourable Member: 12 November is the day of social work. That's the occasion you spoke. But he forgot to add that when Parliament decided that this day should be a day of respect and respect for workers in the social sphere, the left did not support it here in Parliament. Your faction, the LMP fraction, and none of the opposition groups supported the fact that, on 12 November, we should pay particular attention to it, and we should especially thank you for what the workers in the social sphere are doing. I believe that we can and must do this twice during the epidemic, and every time, because they really try to provide for those entrusted to them with even more attention and even more secure environments. It was not always such a respect for those working in the social sphere, as we can remember that it was precisely the left that, let alone you said, the government would have slightly increased the wages of those working in the social sphere, but rather reduced the wages of those working in the social sphere. You forgot to mention that the left has committed a very big crime against the social sphere when you took a monthly wage from each social worker in 2008-2009. And your left-wing fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, who has since been famous for his Kamuvideo, told me that not all people need to go to the home of the elderly after he has grown old, automatically, I think people can stay in much better shape with their neighbors and friends. But he also said that I have much to say about the state normative that tax dollars add to this fee and a one-time entry fee. The left did not speak and act in the language of compassion and helpfulness when he was in a position to decide on social workers. In fact, even when he was in a position to decide from opposition, he did not support the introduction of a social work day. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is an important obligation that what we can produce in Hungary through the work of the Hungarian people, some of it improve the financial situation and working conditions of those working in the social sphere. Therefore, on 1 January 2014 we introduced the sectoral wage bonus. We planned a surplus of HUF 12 billion that year, and since then, this HUF 12 billion has been included in the budget every year. This meant a general wage increase for all 90,000 professional and technical workers, all of which benefited. In the following year, July 1, 2015, we introduced an additional supplement of 7.6 billion. This is different from that introduced in the previous year, in so far as those who have worked in a professional position or have worked for many years have been provided with this. For 66 418 people, on average, this fee supplement was HUF 16,000; some were higher or lower than others. The following year, 2016, which has been a full year, was already HUF 16 billion, and this HUF 16 billion is still included in the budget of social wages every year. Thus, this has been a surplus for workers with a higher education or a higher education. So there was the first wage increase that was common to all, and there was a second, precisely because of what you referred to, so as not to migrate to another sector. Therefore, the next increase was for those with a higher education or a higher education. In 2017-18 we added HUF 9 billion. At that time, 14,000 people were affected by the increase in the combined bonus, and this meant an average gross increase of HUF 35,000. Then came this year when we made a 14-percent increase, and if I look at the overall wage mass in the social sphere, we will spend 33 billion forints more this year, and next year this amount will be 36 billion forints, since another month will be added to this year, honourable Member. So we can say that almost every year there was a wage increase in the social sphere, as opposed to the period, the socialist, left-wing period, when we could talk about wage cuts. You have also given concrete examples, let me give you two specific examples at the end. At the end of the left-wing government, a social worker with a professional qualification earned 108 thousand forints, and now he earns 224 thousand forints, so his wages rose by 116 thousand forints. A college-educated worker made 122 thousand forints at the end of the left-wing government, now earns 240 thousand forints, so the salary rose by 118 thousand forints. It also shows that right-wing governments have indeed taken the road to wage increases, and we want to continue to do so in the future. All social workers should be respected and respected on this day as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, He has brought half a million unemployed people from the DK Group with the title of incompetence of the government, Mr László Varju has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, And we do not know what the end of half a million will be today, because unfortunately, no conclusions can be drawn from the announcements that have been made. I am afraid, by the way, that from the point of view of Hungary, from the health situation side, the braking that has been started or just announced is coming too late. I therefore ask you and Mr State Secretary to put aside your party state reflexes, listen to the opposition's proposals, and please take them into account. We have tabled our proposals in 11 points, and I would ask you to help common defence accordingly. I am very sorry that, as a result of the measures you have taken, you have left out the complete and general testing, which leads me to conclude that you have given up on real prevention, the possibility of real prevention. At the same time, I will make a few suggestions on what we are proposing to you, and I would ask you to consider it. Even if by the method they said ours wasn't in any way this, they're trying to master the technique of overshooting in the bend. We do not want to contribute to this, but instead we want substantive protection. And if European solutions are to be followed instead of overtaking the curve, then it is very welcome. [[11.30]] One of the elements of this is that I can say that you are otherwise fortunate, because you did not have to experience the need to line up after losing your job and, after reducing your pay, you have to deal with how your families will make a living. If you split your salary due to the crisis, what would happen to you, you're early enough to arrive at the government window before closing, and you can claim job-seeking support, which you'll either get or not? That's very little in the limited circle you're willing to do. You are not extending the 12-week job search allowance, which is, by the way, the shortest job in the world. But this is not only evil because they wouldn't find a job for themselves in that time, but also because you deliberately deliver workers to harsh competition in the market. The state research institute, the National Employment Service, is now enjoying the fact that the number of unemployed people has fallen below 300,000. They just don't add that it's because more than 150,000 people are out of 3 months, and they're out of the official, listed unemployed, and then I haven't told you about the 100,000 retired workers who have been laid off, the redundant student workers. What does that mean? That now there are at least half a million people who need a significant share of their income. Which is why I think that when people are given free parking in front of one of the homeless shelters, there will be little treatment. Allow me to quote Mr Mihály Varga, who said at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, that I am pleased to say that I signed a contract just before today's committee meeting. In this he announced that a programme already paid with EUR 504 million of credit would be financed, i.e. those already spent. Dear members of the Government, Gentlemen, I think that's 180,000 billion forints Support from the European Union to save jobs is not for you to spend on money or expenditure spent earlier as you please, but for you to save more and more workers, and therefore to extend this entitlement to 12 weeks. This is what we expect of you, because it is obvious that you caused this crisis. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties. Dr. Pál Völner: The virus, too! Tamás Menczer, turning toward Csaba Dömötör: Much patience, Csaba! István Szilárd Németh: I need a doctor!]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-09-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To suggest who is responsible for this, you will also give a small piece of responsibility to the virus, honourable Member. And as for your ideas about party state reflexes, I can't even interpret that. [[László Varju: Try it!]] I'm not the one who's in politics with the two of us. If we are discussing economic issues, the figures, statistics, after a while, will talk and count, and they will tell us all about how you and this government have been able to protect jobs. In 2010, the number of registered job seekers was 583 thousand per year on average, but at the beginning of the year, there was also an example of over 700,000. This number has now fallen below 300,000 by November, taking into account the effects of the epidemic. This is a decline of 80,000 compared to June, so it is already a decline of 80,000 compared to the epidemiology period. As many people work in Hungary as in January, so in the period before the outbreak. This would not be the case if the government had not taken appropriate, quick decisions in time: wage subsidies, investment grants, moratorium, now extending the home creation programme in recent weeks, and we could list it. We also stand our ground in a European comparison, because the Hungarian unemployment rate is half the EU average, 4 is 8 percent, and the Spanish and Greek figures are a quarter, and that is a significant difference. Regardless of this, further steps are needed, so the Prime Minister agreed with the President of the Chamber, and that is why it was decided that the reservations at the hotels until 8 November in the first 30 days after closing will be reimbursed by 80 percent by the State, and that is why it was decided that restaurants will not have to pay contributions for these 30 days, and that half of the employees' wages will be reimbursed by the State. In both cases, keeping jobs is a prerequisite. We know what you want, we see your suggestions. For example, they would issue to Brussels wage-setting rights, and they would also want a massive tax increase, which is typical of the capital city. It is common in these proposals that there will be no new jobs, there will be no new jobs, but there would be once again 12 percent unemployment. I wouldn't recommend going back to this period. We also see that your policy can be summarised in general in the fact that the worse the country or the government is, the better for you. We've gotten used to it in a time of peace, but we don't want to get used to it in such a severe epidemic. It's not surprising that they're constantly attacking the government, but we're asking you not to attack health professionals at least. I should have brought it up in the response to the Dialogue, but it is not right, as the Chief of Staff is being attacked here in Parliament in the provocative style that we were accustomed to in this Chamber. They're not attacking health professionals. At least not in these difficult days. Based on the current contamination data, it is clear that further action is needed, which is why the government has reviewed the Austrian experience and that is why the Prime Minister announced the measures already mentioned today. As far as moral issues are concerned, I do not think left-wing parties have the moral pedestal to talk about such a high horse. Fake news continues to be produced. We're just looking at the last few days. One of your guys at the end of the week was worried that there weren't enough ventilators in one of the hospitals. All of this a few days after they counted the government for getting too many ventilators, after they asked me in the spring months why they didn't get the ventilator, and now they're alarming me, so the hospital had to put it all in order. Their moral pedestals are also not very high in public money, because there is no need to go back to the period before 2010, the Gyurcsány Party fell a few days ago by stealing electricity. He's stealing electricity, not at home, not at the end of the street, but at the municipal building. They've got a weird sense of reduction in the rent, that's for sure. For this reason, we stand that the left has been able to add so much to the defense against the epidemic that it is spreading rumors, planning restrictions, and stealing electricity. It's a terrible certificate. It's not too late to change their policies. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the MSZP Group, Member Tamás Harangozó applied for a speech before the agenda:. On current issues. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's an actual issue, because there's an emergency. There is an emergency not only in the legal sense, but there is also an emergency. The situation, the numbers are dramatic. Let's see how we got here. Moreover, during the spring period, the government took serious restrictive measures on multiple proposals and with the agreement of the opposition. By summer, the first wave in Europe affected our country relatively less. In the summer the shops, restaurants, people started, but it was already known that a second wave was coming; it wasn't the second wave that the members of the government suspected, and they were looking for it on the Adriatic, but the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, which you apparently weren't prepared for. Otherwise, it would be difficult to explain that to date there is not enough flu vaccine, that thermometers and thermometers in schools were able to obtain at the end of September, that the epidemic, as it is, has been upside down in the month of September, and is now virtually unable to fulfil its task, that the capacity of the tests exceeded the number of testers to be tested, and that they are now trying to improve it afterwards. [[11.40]] The jobs started, the schools were opened, the stadiums were full, and there was no word of defense. Based on a consultation, where about 10-15 percent of your supporters, the Hungarian population, came to the conclusion that there is no need to defend themselves in Hungary, the economy is more important. I'll tell you the numbers today: 86 thousand identified infected, over 110 thousand infected in total, died 2500 people, hospitalized for over 6 thousand today, on a ventilator of 415 people, and what is most horrifying in terms of the near future is that 32 percent of all tests carried out were positive last day. Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to this, last week an emergency was announced, and free parking and curfew between midnight and five tried to buy time. Last week, for example, a billion forints were earmarked for advertising Zsolt Semjén's hunting exhibition. You guys are out of your minds! That was last week. Last week, when it would have been possible to take half a million tests when the Győr-Moson-Sopron County Medical Association, in their information to the population, literally wrote, "The coronal virus epidemic in this situation is unfortunately no longer able to provide quality health care. In other words, the supply system has already reached its limits in many places. In fact, more and more places have been exceeded and the rules for disaster situations need to be introduced. On this day, you were giving extra money to advertise the hunting exhibition. Viktor Zsiday goes on as an economic analyst, he says [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh, the great analyst!]] For political reasons, the government wants to get away with the disease control in order to reduce its economic impact. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to stop. [[István Szilárd Németh spoke with several better representatives. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] You've been seeing the numbers for weeks, you know exactly what's coming out of it. Really, how dare they play with other people's lives? ! [[Turning to the talking representatives, the president again jogs the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Gambling, doing nothing, has to stop. The Prime Minister's announcement today finally contains substantive steps, but it is certain that he is late and we still do not see any support and positive further action for the population. For this reason, today the opposition parties have tabled a joint proposal for a resolution, with the emphasis on precisely this latter, because if closure comes, it will be even more necessary for families, pensioners and workers to receive assistance from the state. I would like to highlight one of these in particular, which is also a solution to the disease control and the financial situation of people. Here for the 90th day, give a hundred percent pension to everyone who gets sick or gets quarantined by the authorities. Otherwise, people will be put at risk, they will have to decide between their financial security and their own health or the health of others. It's inhuman, unacceptable, it can't happen. Please take these proposals into account. And we ask you to do everything you can to control the epidemic, to ensure the safety and financial security of the Hungarian people, but most of all to pray that their late decisions do not fall into the lives of the masses of Hungarians. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-09-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary was perhaps one of the first countries in the world to set up the operational tribe at the beginning of the year, which began to take special measures for the epidemic. Although the government has acted in time, and with this we have been able to defend ourselves successfully against the first wave of the epidemic and together, together in the second wave, it can succeed, there has been no particular support from the government on your political side. Benedek Jávor, your former colleague, his left-wing colleague, now a representative of Budapest in Brussels, wrote that this is a relatively inexpensive and harmless epidemic. Then Ágnes Vadai, your fellow Member, ridiculed the fact that the operational tribe is holding press conferences every day, and I quote, excuse me. Péter Niedermüller, your former left-wing colleague, now mayor, whose mayor's office is stealing electricity while the left is stealing electricity, was joking about the corona virus being the dessert, and he had to cancel it later. Their Vice Mayor Kerpel-Fronius also says of the left that this is a very serious misunderstanding, that it must be joined together in times of crisis and therefore should not be politicalised; it is precisely at this time that politics should be the most important, so he was not talking about cooperation, but about politics. The leader of the party foundation of the Gergely Christmas party, Ferenc Büttl said [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] that dealing with the crisis is not a national matter. This is a national matter. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Read Gergő Gulyás!]] We should all work together. Richard Barabás, also spokesperson for the Christmas party in August, said that the government could support with data on what it bases it on that there will be a second wave in September, which they keep talking about. The left-wing politician doubted the possibility of talking about a second wave at all, and this would have a professional basis. Here in Parliament, Szabó Timea referred to Athina Németh, and repeatedly told the false news that most people die in Hungary as a result of a coronal virus epidemic, and criticized the need to provide hospital beds to a large extent for patients with coronal viruses. We have seen how much campaign you have started then, honourable Member. So you seem to be changing your position every day, or you have different positions per politician, not consistent at all. We have seen one of the left-wing parties submit a resolution proposal and then withdraw it for a few days in relation to the control of the coronal virus epidemic. They will submit a request for a referendum on the basis of a coronal virus epidemic and withdraw the request for a referendum on the grounds of a coronal virus epidemic, honourable Member. For your part, the opposite of everything is said, rushed, and they are only trying to find political catch on the government, not to help the fight against the epidemic in substance. It shows the effectiveness of Hungarian defence, honourable Member, that if you look at the number of people who have died per million inhabitants, unfortunately this number in Europe is very high, 431. Fortunately, in Hungary it is much lower than that, 249. We are obviously sorry for this number, and we would be happy if we did not have to talk about such a situation in all the countries of Europe, but that is the case. If you look at Ireland, Romania, you will find one and a half times the number, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands is also higher, Sweden, France is two and a half times the number, Italy is also higher, the United States or the United Kingdom is three times the number in Hungary, and Spain, Belgium is even bigger, Belgium is four and a half times the number in Hungary, five times the number in Belgium. But if you look at the number of infected people per 100,000 inhabitants, there is also the EU number 1760, whereas in Hungary it is 1122, so in the EU this number is one and a half times the number of Hungarians, honourable Member. You can also see that in Europe in all countries... [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Do I get an answer to sick money?]] Records are set daily in every country in Europe, honourable Member. In France 90,000 new infected in one day, which is an absolute record, the hospitals in two regions filled up. We have rarely seen, honourable Member, that hospitals are so full and that their capacity is so limited by a country's healthcare system, such as Belgium and France, that they are transferring patients to Germany. Compared to this, every Hungarian hospital worker, anyone involved in the management of hospitals, that in Hungary there is a hospital bed for all patients, there is a necessary means, and there are a sufficient number of medical personnel, there are some where there is a transfer, some where there is no hospital bed. We have also exceeded 1.2 million in the number of tests in order to avoid these cases, since in France there is already a selection of cancer patients, who can receive immediate care and who is later. And in Italy and other countries, they can be even more terrifying examples. I think it's time for us to join forces, not political slashes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why is the family-friendly government destroying families? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-17	Mr President, Dear House, There is indeed a need for cooperation, and we have heard more quotes in recent production reports. Let me tell you one. Gergely Gulyás:. We can also see and say that in fact we, who are present in this room, can safely infect each other, at most one of which is unpleasant [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] flu symptoms are followed [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Continue with the quote.]] if you're not sick, by the way. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Continue reading, continue reading.]] How is that, Mr. Secretary? ! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Continue reading the sentence.]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Continue reading the sentence.]] Get down on the ground (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Continue reading the sentence!) Take off your big vests, get on your feet, and pray that by some divine miracle, this country can unravel the consequences of the fucked-up defense. [[11.50]] The pact government that can lie down for banks, multinationals, international interests is quite amazing. [[Dr. Pál Völner to Gyurcsány!]] He's been serving the German car companies, and then he's coming home and he's performing that low-key, combative rhetoric that we've been hearing in the last few weeks. Hungary has made perfect preparation, hasn't it? Oh, they're not yelling at me right now. Why is that? There's almost unlimited medical capacity, isn't there? Were you able to develop testing capacity in the summer, or are we at its borders by accident? He says further quotes from last week: there will probably be no need for further measures. You guys are struggling in a pretty amazing way, and you're trying to go after reality, and, by the way, it's really a moment of grace when we need to show solidarity. But the rhetorical warning system that you have come up with here cannot be created in Hungary, but you still do not come to your senses when your entire argument system, your argument set has been destroyed, you have gone into the soup, and it turns out that none of it is true. The warlike rhetoric should be put in the background a little bit, and now we need to create a real national collaboration. The fact is that in the summer, rather than decent preparation, the symptoms of yachting and luxurious government were more important in Hungary. Meanwhile, while both the world and Hungary are closing, the alarm arrived for another eviction on Wednesday morning in the middle of a social and social disaster, and we can say that a NAV debt, a HUF and a half million undoubtedly due to a NAV debt, is being taken to the family house after ten years of litigation. On Thursday, an eviction alert came to Érd, where, although there was no debt, everything was paid; there was a court dispute about whether the executor's cheese paper owed him or not, but this does not have suspensive effect. The executor, even though he's being prosecuted, puts the family in favor of your assistance. He says it's the IV. We also received an alarm from the district. Interestingly, they're trying to evict someone with a positive Covid test. Last week, this was not done because another activist called the Public Health Department, which led to the unfolding scandal that led the executive to retreat, but because of the very late date of your eviction moratorium this week, while you are closing down Hungary, this confirmed Covid plus man is trying to put on the street this week. Now, I'd like to hear the loud yelling. Now, I'd like to hear from any of you that by tomorrow morning, you're going to announce the eviction moratorium and put an end to this madness. Because a family-friendly government wouldn't name it. During the period since your registration since 2010, more than ten thousand families have been placed on the street unattended. It's a pseudo-national, pseudo-Christian government, if that's what you can tolerate. I would add, since obviously these families would have had demographic goals, their goals of staying at home, compared to which you left them not only on the side of the road, but also scattered the area with napalm. I would like to say that I would expect the Secretary of State immediately to announce the announcement of the eviction moratorium, to continue assisting the executive mob, not to serve the system that destroys Hungarian families, and, in the case of these people and other compatriots, the concept of the Hungarian Labour Protection Fund on the replacement of lost wages must be discussed here today. After all, they cannot expect the country to be closed, and Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit system is being thrown at the back of those who are now in trouble, while in some sectors they sporadically make up for some of the wages. It would also be expected to replace 80% of all outstanding wages for those who have already lost their jobs and to facilitate the lives of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen by a very important step, with 33 percent and 50 percent bans on the lowest salaries, the income needed to raise children and the smallest pensions. A real, socially committed and welfare-oriented government would immediately take these measures. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Where are the specific measures? Here you go. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-09-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have two brief remarks, and then a longer one for your speech before the agenda. One is that we would expect you or you immediately to help us defend ourselves instead of anger and instead of constantly attacking health workers. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] And instead of yelling at me. I mean, remember me. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] that in the spring you did not support any action that would have helped the government and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, to protect them. In any case, I note it quietly: only the Hungarian people can count on us, the government and the pro-government representatives. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That may be the problem.]] On the other hand, while constantly yelling at you at the parliamentary session on Thursday, when we were talking about setting up a home, we would like you to look around and see that there are settlements in the country where the municipalities, your local government representatives, committee presidents and sub-Mayors are evicting people from municipal housing, so during wintertime. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops! Dr. Pál Völner: Shame! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Spit in your own house! Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell. Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including: Calm down!]] If you look at this and you can answer that, then we can debate this issue. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've been ruling for ten years!]] Honourable Congressman, All I ask of you is that you don't take over the behavior of your president, so calm down, I'll listen to you, I didn't say a word, you listen to me. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] My second point, honourable Member, is what you are saying about foreign exchange creditors, that you have the wrong recipient. We don't have to blame anything in this case, but your current friends, allies, by the way, the Gyurcsány protagonists and the MSZPs. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] So let us not forget, honourable Member, after 2002, your current friends, your current allies, were the ones who abolished the home creation programme. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right!]] who terminated the family tax relief scheme after 2002 and drove Hungarian families into foreign exchange debt. Then, when they were driven into foreign exchange debt, they were abandoned in 2008, and 2010 meant that Hungarian families were completely exposed. Your question is not to destroy the families: your current allies, who are not sitting here by the way, have destroyed the Hungarian families, honourable Member, and not us! [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, including: You've been steering for ten years! Ten years! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Answer the question!]] After 2002 there was a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary. We are working with all our tools to support Hungarian families or young people in childbearing, raising children and creating homes, honourable Member. We're not losing family support, we're constantly expanding the family support system. We have brought back the tax relief for children, and by the way, you always say that only the wealthy can take advantage of it, 95 percent of those receiving family allowances can take advantage of the family tax relief. We introduced the ged extra, the baby shower support, the four-year-old mother's absence, the car purchase of large family members, and also introduced a credit moratorium, which we recently extended, in order to support Hungarian families in the crisis. And furthermore, honourable Member, you were here on Thursday at the debate in Parliament when we discussed the introduction of the biggest home creation programme in recent decades, where we introduce the 5% VAT; for families, families with children who use the CSOK, they will have a zero-percent VAT from the beginning of next year; we will introduce a home renovation programme, we will also support multigenerational home creation and we will also introduce tax exemption. So, honourable Member, I would like to ask you to honor the Parliament and those who are watching the parliamentary sitting, to stick to the facts and try to confront the facts in this crisis, not constantly, but to help the Hungarian people and Hungarian families to get through this crisis together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Eviction! Dániel Z. Carpathian: I raised three problems! I asked you three questions. Three questions. I asked you three questions. Such a cowardly answer! Nacsa Lőrinc: Coward is the one who...]]
u2020-11-09-20	I would ask my fellow Members to back off a little bit, because believe me, I can follow very closely, even beyond the mask, who are the ones who yell at me. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches, the masked...]] Mr István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.00]]
u2020-11-09-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, it is clear that the coronal virus epidemic is constantly increasing throughout Europe. In recent days, the number of new infections in Germany, France, Romania has reached a record. In France, there was a day last week when 850 people died. In Belgium, the size of us, there was a day when 268 people died, and France and Belgium were rich countries. And even though the loss of all human lives is a tragedy, it can be said that Hungary continues to belong to well-protected countries. If we look at the numbers, they'll back that up. The number of people who died in a coronal virus epidemic is 22 per 100,000, 41 in the European Union as a whole, and the Hungarian is therefore lower than the EU value. Hungary is in a better position than most European countries, even in terms of the number of people who have died so far in the coronal virus. Let us add that all this is done with Hungary acting fairly on this issue, because doctors here always indicate the coronal virus as cause of death if it could play a role in the patient's death. At the same time, there are countries where this does not work at all, and in most cases only the underlying disease is named. The situation is therefore, to sum up, increasingly serious across Europe, but Hungary stands. Therefore, we should thank the epidemiological experts and health professionals for their superhuman, extraordinary and heroic work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] The government is doing what needs to be done to ensure a successful defence, once again announced the emergency, and the Prime Minister has just announced new measures that will take place for 30 days in order to ensure that the health care system does not become overloaded. Now, however, we must talk again about the responsibility of Parliament, honourable Members, because it was also the key moment of the first wave defense when the Parliament adopted the Crown Virus Act. In doing so, the government was given the licenses with which it had sufficient determination and, most importantly, it was able to act in proportion to the danger. Thanks to this capacity of action, the sacrifices of professionals and the discipline of citizens, we were finally able to complete the first phase of the fight against the epidemic together, even if the left did not take part in this, and in most cases attacked the defense. Let us recall that they did not vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act, they wasted winters in Brussels and in the Western press that Parliament did not meet. Then they came to the Parliament meeting and told me day after day that health care would collapse, violating and ignoring thousands of field experts and their work. They spread lies, for example, Congresswoman Timea Szabó said that most people around the world, in Hungary, die, which proved to be a simple lie. Then they caused panic, but not only: the biggest kamuvideo of recent years was shot in the directorship of our socialist colleague Lajos Korózs. And, of course, in the usual manner, they cried out the dictatorship in Canon. So when it came to joining forces, the left did not heed our request that, if they did not want to help, at least they should not hinder the protection against the coronal virus. However, hope dies last, so we hope that the left has learned from its error, and at least now it will not prevent protection. This is important because tomorrow we must decide again on the extension of the emergency. The representatives of Fidesz and KDNP will certainly vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues on the left! I'm asking you to put party politics aside for once, and let's work together. The next few weeks will be very difficult for all of us, but you can see the light at the end of the tunnel, because the vaccine is within a reasonable distance. That is why we should all tighten our teeth, abide by the rules, and in this Parliament together give the government the authority to act quickly and effectively, as it has done so far. If we do, we will defeat the virus again, and we will surely succeed together. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner responds to his speech before the agenda of Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we all remember the events in the spring, when we faced a brand-new, unknown threat, the coronal virus epidemic, and the government declared an emergency and then turned to Parliament to receive the powers that allowed immediate operational measures by extending the emergency. We remember what happened at the time, that even the opposition did not support a derogation from house rules, so that it would have given the parties of government a way to announce this in practically the shortest possible time. Then, in itself, it was reprehensible, indeed, in the West, they began a slanderous campaign. While health workers, social workers, shop workers, so I could tell you more, everyone did their job and fought the epidemic, tried to keep the country running despite restrictions and restrictions, they peddle out that Parliament didn't work, that dictatorship was introduced here; here, in connection with the state of the rumor, which threatens to punish the press more severely in times of emergency, they silence the press. And we also remember that there were all kinds of tests on Věra Jourová's part, on the part of the Belgian Commissioner and on the part of the Belgian Commissioner, but there was no infringement proceedings against us, contrary to the CEU case, with our various measures to reduce the costs. Legally, no catch was found on the events, and everyone realized that the rules that we applied did not exceed the levels applied in Western Europe. So, as Prime Minister said, practically the French President has greater powers in peacetime than the Hungarian Prime Minister in times of emergency. I think that this lie needs to be taken care of for a while outside, before the Commission, or even the European Parliament, can, to say the least, be put in a battle line in this situation by its representatives, which are not affected by momentary interests. But we hope that in this case, tomorrow, sobriety will prevail. So those who have been so blindly involved in this conflict, trying to discredit the government, realize that the health of Hungarian people, the viability of the economy, the creation of conditions for health protection are all more important than to follow the same amok run, driven by a moment of interest or idea, that was seen during the spring. You can also see that, as you have listed, Hungarian defence is indeed in difficulty, because we are in a more serious situation than the spring figures, so we can now say that the same restrictions or even more restrictions will be introduced than in the spring, but we are not out of the European average. This means that if Switzerland has 12,000 sick people per day for 8.5 million inhabitants and we have 5 thousand, then it proves that, unfortunately, it is not on the level of preparedness, not on the health standard, but on the strength of the epidemic that often depends on what disadvantages and dangers we have to suffer. The other thing I would like to point out, which is also an interesting mechanism for both the opposition and the bureaucrats in Brussels: now, at the time of the epidemic, it is considered the most important thing to put Hungary in a corner with blackmail, political and ideological blackmail. Without any infringement procedure, without excessive deficit procedure, they want to withdraw funds from us on the basis of purely Commission decisions, wrapped in this rule of law robe, which is to say that the framework provided by the Union, such as the Union's basic treaty, which gives veto rights to both national governments and national parliaments on certain issues, they want to force Hungary, Poland or the student, or other states, into a situation where they are practically blackmailed by the adoption of the seven-year budget and Next Generation, risking the economic stability and jobs of those Member States which are in a much more difficult situation than well-protected states or who have held financial discipline in recent years. We are about here today, so I hope that tomorrow sobriety will win, and we hope that the plague will pass away as soon as possible, and then the space will finally open up to the political debates that the opposition loves so much, even without the facts. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.10]]
u2020-11-09-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! From the Fidesz Group, Mr Csaba Hende, Vice-President of the Parliament, spoke before the agenda with the title of our current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The epidemic situation continues to deteriorate throughout the world, particularly in Europe. Unfortunately, the infection is becoming more and more, more and more people are getting sick, and the number of people who need hospital care is increasing. We also have an emerging epidemic, and protection requires rapid action. It is therefore justified that the Government has once again declared a special legal order and an emergency. This gives us the opportunity to make quick decisions. There is no time now for a 2-3 weeks of normal parliamentary decision, because in an emergency it simply does not fit. Health, economic or other measures must be taken as a matter of urgency, even within hours. Dear House, Today, unfortunately, almost everyone has some direct experience of the epidemic, because the virus has reached the family, the employees. The situation is difficult, but our chances are not bad. We have world-class doctors and nurses who fight heroically. We provided them with all the necessary equipment to the limit of opportunity, and we also provided for their financial appreciation. We managed the first wave successfully this spring because we joined forces. We're much more prepared now, and if everyone keeps to the rules, we'll be able to do it again together. The measures announced by the Prime Minister shortly ago are another step towards protecting people's lives, health and the functioning of hospitals. Dear House, Tomorrow the Parliament will negotiate a 90-day extension of the emergency. In the spring we could not count on this left, then they did not support it, they did not even vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act, they attacked Hungary unjustly abroad, and they even created a chauvideo for the expiry of Hungarian health care. Then we couldn't predict when the plague would end, so we didn't set a deadline. Finally, after 98 days, the government initiated the removal of the emergency. Now the situation is different. There's encouraging news about the vaccine. It's in sight. [[Dr. László György Lukács: The question is which direction is the visibility!]] Hungary participates in all of the EU's vaccine programmes and negotiates with Russia, China and Israel so that the Hungarian government can buy among the first ones and start the vaccination. That is why we hope that 90 days will be enough to maintain the extraordinary legal order. I ask all Members of Parliament, regardless of party positions, to help defend themselves, because this is not the time for political debates. The time for words is over, the time for action has come. I also express my condolences to the families of the victims of the epidemic, and I wish all patients well. Together, we pray that the renowned and anonymous heroes of health care will be given the strength, courage and perseverance of their heroic struggle against the invisible enemy, the Crown Virus. Dear Parliament, Perhaps the truth of Széchenyi István's sentence has never been so clear: . All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. The government is responsible, we also have to make responsible decisions. But everyone has a responsibility, not only for their own health, but also for the health of others. Now the most that everyone can and must do is proper masking, distance keeping, frequent hand washing, and full compliance with all new restrictive regulations, even if they involve discomfort or difficulties. God help us all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Menczer, State Secretary, responds to Mr Vice-President's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start where you have finished, because the vaccine will indeed be the comforting solution, but, as is known, there is no vaccine at the moment, so, as you have mentioned, it is particularly important to comply with the existing rules, of which there is not enough emphasis on masking, distance and regular hand washing and disinfection. We also know that no one currently knows exactly where they're gonna find the antidote to the coronal virus, and we don't even know exactly when that's gonna happen. However, we can have reasonable confidence that there will be a vaccine within a few months and that it will be available in large quantities in the foreseeable future. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What do we have to do? Our job is to be there for all vaccine projects that are successful, and we are doing so, in every process at the end of which they can produce an effective vaccine. Of course, Hungary is part of the European project. Here the schedule seems to be roughly that, hopefully, at the end of December, at the beginning of January, the first doses can arrive according to the current plan and may be available in larger quantities in April. But it is possible that they are better in the East, that they will first find the antidote, and therefore, as the Member referred to it, we will monitor what is happening in China, Russia and Israel. We are related to three producers in China. In such cases, the process starts by signing a confidentiality declaration and concluding a cooperation agreement. Of course, we are speeding up this process as much as we can, and we are making good progress under the circumstances. At one manufacturer, we are looking forward to getting a vaccine sample within a reasonable period of time, and at another manufacturer we are also trying to steer discussions to get a vaccine sample as soon as possible. This means that hopefully this year and hopefully we will have one or two vaccine samples from China as soon as possible, which, I assume, I do not need to describe, would be of enormous importance. We are also doing well with the third producer, and we are also trying to make progress there. The first country would be Hungary in Europe or, in any case, we would be among the first to analyse a Chinese vaccine sample. With regard to Russia, Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó also negotiates with his partners in relation to Russia. There we were informed that the vaccine should be tested for six months, but that after three months they could produce a so-called intermediate report. This is going to happen this week, and it's going to be hopeful again. Hopefully, in December, we can get smaller amounts of the Russian vaccine and more next year. Authorization and authorisation are another very important issue, honourable Member, honourable House. First of all, it is important to point out that the authorisation of the vaccine in a medical emergency is a Member State's competence, and we will not be deterred by any lobby in Brussels or any lobby from bringing it to Hungary if it is found somewhere. In the course of the authorisation process, it is extremely important that Hungarian professionals will, of course, decide which vaccine is good and which is not, what is their opinion on the different vaccines. We get samples, we get professional descriptions, and on this basis Hungarian experts make the decision and give their opinion. At this place or at this point, it is important to ask the left and the left-wing press not to do what has been seen in the last few days, not to cause alarms, not to panic, not to say that we want to inoculate Hungarians with unknown, uncertain substances, because this is not true, this is irresponsible behaviour, panicking, and there is no need to do that now. I trust that the health and safety of the Hungarian people is also the most important thing for left-wing Members, and I therefore ask them to stop doing so. Because what we're seeing right now is that the government is dealing with people and fighting the virus with people, and the left is dealing with the government, not the people, and the government's attack is the most important thing for the left. I hope that this attitude will change and that the left will support the purchase of vaccine and support the government in other areas. [[12.20]] For example, there is an opportunity to do so immediately tomorrow in the vote on the extraordinary legal order. Don't be rooting for the break-in of Hungarian health care and job losses, because it's irresponsible, and then they're not doing anything against the government, they're doing it against the Hungarian people! Support the government and vote responsibly tomorrow. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group; Tünde Szabó, from the Fidesz Group; Mr Gergely Tapolczai, from the Fidesz Group; Mr Róbert Dudás from the Jobbik Group; Mr Csaba Gyüre from the Jobbik Group; Mr László Lóránt Keresztes from the LMP; Gergely Farkas is an independent Member; Mr László Hajdu from DK; Mr László Varju from the DK Group. Dear Parliament, Now it's 12:20, and we're gonna start discussing immediate questions. Dear House, Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. [[The president doesn't see György Szilágyi standing up from the platform. György Szilágyi: I'm standing right here, Mr. President.]]
u2020-11-09-29	Here you go.
u2020-11-09-30	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-11-09-31	Thank you very much. So it was Congressman György Szilágyi who spoke for the immediate questioners. Dear House, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács will ask the question. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-32	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Fellow Members! Péter Szijjártó is currently, at present, not, but otherwise, he's on the prowl for vaccinations, especially in the East, where we got cans of scraps and protective equipment in the spring. You can hear about vaccinations against Russian and Chinese coronal viruses, Minister. Let us, by the way, put aside our own experience with the quality of both countries' products, whether from before the change of regime or after the change of regime, but, Minister, we can say that vaccination is not a toaster or a Junosty television or a counterfeit Gucci bag. Here, people's health, their lives are at stake, special rules apply to them for a reason, how to bring them into a country, apply them, and what they have to comply with. With regard to the Russian and Chinese substances, it has come to light that their clinical testing phase, their production and their research are almost unrecognizable. In view of all of this, it is time to clarify some interesting issues, such as changes in the rules for receiving vaccinations, i.e. shortening the deadline and thus the requirements that are applied to prevent vaccinations from being dangerous to humans. But perhaps the most important question, as you are a doctor, is that you, as a doctor, when you are ready for the Russian or Chinese vaccination, and you will be recommended to the public in a controlled manner, you will be given the vaccine in public. Is the Eastern vaccination a threat to the Hungarian people? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-09-33	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Miklós Kásler. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-34	Mr. President. Dear House, Hungary is a world power in vaccinations. There is not a single country with thirteen vaccines, so it can be said that our experience is appropriate. Developments related to Covid are quite diverse in various parts of the world, preparing a variety of vaccines, killed viruses, vector vaccines, built-up vaccinations and others. One thing I can tell you is that every drug development, every vaccine development, has to be followed. This is covered by the EPAR requirements and the EMA requirements in Europe. Of course, when the vaccine is finished, and when it is finished, the Hungarian health authority will definitely check to the smallest detail that it has complied with international standards and the Hungarian standards that coincide. That I'd get inoculated? Of course, because we only allow the placing on the market of a vaccine that is guaranteed to be effective and safe. I'd be happy to explain the procedure at the place you've designated, at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-35	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-36	Speaking of which, Minister, it may also be worth clarifying that the Russian vaccination will be mandatory for everyone, if you would give it to yourself. Can the Hungarian authorities and Viktor Orbán guarantee that the expected benefit of vaccination from Russia exceeds its disadvantages? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What are the disadvantages?]] I thought of an interesting old joke. There was, I think, a joke in which the caller on the Jerevan radio asked [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Kágébéla!]] It's true that Soviet lessons are as accurate as the Swiss. And the answer to that was that they were true, and they were even faster. God save Hungary! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-09-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-38	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, God bless Hungary and the Hungarian nation from every outside and every internal attack! Returning to the obligation of vaccination. No. We live in a free country, everyone can decide by their free will what is beneficial to them and what is not. I wouldn't underestimate the Russian vaccine the same way I wouldn't underestimate the other vaccines. It's not a matter of government regime, it's a matter of profession. The Russian vaccine has a chance, and Western vaccines have a chance. When they are completed and registered, we will examine them as I have said, and I will submit the right one to myself, and I will also recommend it to the Member. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Appropriate? The right one?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-39	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is this, Mr. Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of his absence, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás asked for a reply. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-11-09-40	I ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Thank you.
u2020-11-09-41	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. If everything is true, and my order is right, then I will give you the opportunity again. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. In the absence of the Prime Minister, Minister Gergely Gulyás also gave the right to reply to this question. I respectfully ask the congresswoman, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-11-09-42	Yeah, I'll take it. I won't say no the second time.
u2020-11-09-43	Yes, thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2020-11-09-44	I'm sorry. Can you start the clock again?
u2020-11-09-45	Of course, of course. That's what I would have said. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-46	Thank you very much. Okay, great. Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Minister Lords! In the current epidemic, it is justified to make the mask mandatory, since it can save lives. Accordingly, it is also appropriate that failure to wear a mask should be sanctioned by the legislation in force with strict penalties. [[12.30]] At the same time, we legislators must also not ignore how humane and humane the laws we make are. Recently, the Trade Employees Union contacted me and indicated that many employers are so concerned about the punishment that they won't even let workers take off their masks for so long to drink. This means, for example, that a six - hour cashier has to work his shift without a sip of water, since work breaks only take longer than six hours. Therefore, the interest organisation would like to ensure that trade workers can take a 10-minute mask-free break every two hours. When I addressed a written question to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, I was told that the risk assessment for workers' health was the responsibility of employers. However, in this case, the provisions requiring the wearing of health rules and masks are contradictory. It is important to protect against the epidemic, but also to ensure humane working conditions. That is why I ask Minister: is the Fidesz government's partner in a legislative amendment that would allow trade workers to take a 10-minute mask-free break every two hours in compliance with the maximum epidemiological standards? Thank you so much for listening. I'm glad Secretary Retvári is here, and I trust he's all right after the Crown Virus.
u2020-11-09-47	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and An important provision of the Fundamental Law is that legislation must be interpreted in accordance with common sense. This is particularly justified at a time when the rules must be strictly respected. But that doesn't excuse anyone from the obligation to use common sense. So it's obvious that the minimum of humanity is that everyone, if they want, can drink every hour, if they want, every half an hour, but at least every two hours. As obviously, the use of bathrooms cannot be linked to the fact that someone is having a break from labour law or not. So I am a partner in all regulations, and the government is also a partner, which provides a solution to the problem you have raised. I only regret that this problem exists at all, if it exists, because I think that the interpretation of the current rules in accordance with common sense makes it clear that, of course, when we stand up, we usually take off the mask, or when someone is eating, it is technically impossible to do so rather than take off the mask. So we have to answer a life situation that results not from strict compliance with the current rules, but from misinterpretation. If this is a general problem, then, of course, the government is open to describing what is clear, so eat and drink not in masks. And there is no question that an employee has the right to drink and eat when he is thirsty or hungry. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-49	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congresswoman. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-09-50	Thank you very much for the Minister's humane response. The problem is that this problem is not only about cashiers, but also about women, but also about bakers. So far, they've been given a protective drink, and now the potion is gone. So it's one of those problems... common sense stops, I know, I get it, I just really want to ask you to sit down and negotiate with the President of the CSA, see what to do in this case. 'Cause no matter how I look at it, it's a problem, and I think everyone's really needed, and it's here, the virus's out of control, no one's gonna be spared, no matter what their party stand. So I definitely think that you should focus on prevention. And, as I indicated, there are two cases in conflict here, which is why it would be extremely important to deal with this immediately, because, yes, fear is a great master. And I would just like to say in silence that those who have lost their jobs are in an increasingly difficult situation, not these cases, the purchase of the mask is also a problem. So, once again, I wish everyone a chance to get better, in health care, in the social sphere, in the cashews, everywhere. My request, Minister, is to help this case so that common sense can dictate as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-51	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-11-09-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can only stress once again that the government is a partner in the need to clarify regulation anywhere because of bad practice, even if we cannot change practice, we are also open to clarification of regulation. I would ask you to send me any requests in this regard, and we will try to put in writing what is thought to be natural in normal places. But I do not claim that all jobs in Hungary today are normal places, so it is in common interest that, if there is such a problem, we solve this. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-11-09-53	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Instant wage subsidies to Hungarians who have lost their jobs! It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai granted the right to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[László Varju: Thank you.]] Thank you so much for accepting. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. As a matter of fact, we can safely say that Hungary is an area hit by crises by the fault of the Orbán government of the Party State. It's obvious. Under these circumstances, if it were really the epic and health care professionals who fought heroically to defend themselves, perhaps we would be further ahead. I'll give you a concrete example: Borsod County is a concrete example of doctors being transferred from the small town hospital to the big city, leaving hundreds of thousands of people without health care that could cause problems even for children, because even ambulances are not available. In these circumstances, I think that instead of the previous solutions in the turn, it is very timely for those who do not have a car, but who do not have the money to travel to the city for supply, they need wage support. The country, as I said, is an area affected by crises. The Orbán government won't help those in trouble if it doesn't substantially extend the wage support. In addition to his many other crimes, the government could also do something about improving the situation and extending the duration of the unemployment benefit significantly, and this is really helping people who have the minimum conditions, survival and minimum health care opportunities, I could say that they are doing something for that. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State when and how much state wage support they intend to grant to people who have lost or who lacked their jobs so that there is still a way to save what can be saved. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-09-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We continue to have a discussion of principles and attitudes about giving people fish or nets on the basis of ancient wisdom. When you give people fish, you feed them, people feed you, they think everything's okay. But the real help is to teach them to fish and give them a net and opportunity. The current government continues this economic policy; it goes on not to introduce restrictions, not to introduce tax increases, but to tackle the crisis in such a way as to increase subsidies, increase resources, simplify access, reduce taxes, improve the business environment and support for families. Yeah, he's been doing that since April, since the crisis started. After all, the economic defense plan had five important elements. The first and perhaps most important element is the preservation of jobs. In order to preserve jobs, the State provided support in the event of reduced working hours. This, by the way, has reached 207 thousand employees, some 16 thousand companies have provided such support. We can continue with the opportunities for job creation. Yes, there is also a need to create jobs in the crisis, to give people jobs. [[12.40]] This was provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade's support programme, where aid can be requested up to EUR 800 thousand. This has contributed to the preservation of more than 143 000 people's jobs, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varju. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-58	Mr Secretary of State and dear fellow applauding Members, what you said was extremely outrageous. I think that, in this crisis, in health, you should not encourage anyone to learn to fish. Make sure people have bus tickets so they can travel to health care. The necessary wage support for the purchase of the bus ticket must be provided. Is that the best you can do? ! Really, Mr. Secretary, in this situation, when we are standing here, and with such dramatic and pathetic words, do you draw attention to the situation of this country? ! What do they think of themselves? ! Give the people money. I demand that you provide wage support to people from Borsod who have been virtually thrown out of the supply system, who have not been accepted into the supply system, and therefore their supply is uncertain. Their party-state conduct will be exposed again, and while the European Union has given funds to their minister, who has admitted it and has said so. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In the meantime, they're spending it on someone else. Give people money and wage support.
u2020-11-09-59	Thank you very much, Mr Congressman, for a one-minute rejoinder, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-60	Honourable Congressman, As usual, you are attacking with a loud voice, but before you raise your voice, let us look back to your crisis management, because life is like that, that you were a state leader, and in your time, there was a crisis about ten years ago. What did you do? Cutbacks. They took the money from the people, the pension, the salary. What did you do? A tax raise. Do you know the consequences of this? Hundreds of thousands of unemployed and 12 percent unemployment rates were passed on to government in 2010. Do you know what this has become? Budgetary failure, a budgetary failure that if the EU and the IMF do not exist, the country will be insolvent. You're indebted to the country. You can criticize the government, of course, because that's your job, but when you raise your voice, you can look a little back into yourself and see how we did it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And maybe you'd like to keep your criticism down a little bit. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Pálinka or food on the table?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that you have appointed Minister Gergely Gulyás to respond to Prime Minister's absence. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2020-11-09-62	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-11-09-63	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Who takes care of the caregivers?" It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or wait for a personal answer from Minister.
u2020-11-09-64	I'd like to wait for Mr. Secretary, if possible.
u2020-11-09-65	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long will you wait? It's an address. I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that, due to the Minister's absence, you have given Mr Bence Rétvári the right to reply. I respectfully ask... [[For signal:]] Thank you, I will not go any further, Mrs President. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Fortunately, the title of my immediate question today was no longer valid, because one of the restrictions or restrictions or measures announced by the Prime Minister was that they would test the teachers, which I was very pleased to do, but there were further questions in this regard. I do not know how elaborate this announcement is, I hope you will be able to answer the questions. The first question is who will ensure weekly testing costs for teachers and daycare workers. Will you provide support for the digital transition for families, schools in need, such as instruments or other forms? Do you give support to parents staying home with SNI high school students? At such times, our fear is always ours, although we agree that these measures were necessary, but many parents are likely to have to stay at home even with high school students because of their transition to digital education, taking into account these children with special needs. The other is that the government has also considered testing social workers, especially those working in the institutions, especially those working by the bed, working in nursing homes, are at risk of infection as well as those working in health care, but we have not heard of them. I am glad that Mr Secretary of State is well; I hope that all my fellow Members, who are currently suffering from a coronal virus or other disease, will be fine and will be fine. Thank you.
u2020-11-09-67	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, and thank you very much for your good wishes. The answer, as I said, will be from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-68	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your human words, your wishes. Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the government has always sought to take measures that best protect the health of school pupils, the health of school educators, and parents to whom the children return every afternoon, evening, and from which they leave in the morning. That's why, during the first wave, the government decided to switch to digital work order for a successful defense. This had several positive benefits, on the one hand it was possible to continue learning, so the year of the students was not lost, the teachers were able to continue the work, so the wages were also due to them, and the most important thing was that the number of meetings was reduced, and Hungary was able to defend itself effectively in the first wave. Therefore, we already have experience with digital education. In the National Public Education Portal, a number of digital teaching materials are available, and there have been new developments in the KRÉTA system during the summer, precisely to better serve students, teachers and parents in such a situation. As you have said, the government plans to do so, of course, and we ask Parliament's general mandate to move from 11 November tomorrow to a digital working order outside the classroom above 8th grade. Obviously, we are talking about students above the 8th grade who can study better at home themselves, who can follow the curriculum better, they can keep in touch better, they need less full supervision of the parents every day, because they are already bigger students. At the same time, they are also the ones who mix more in the evenings and in the afternoons, who may have been able to meet others, and therefore pose a greater risk of spreading the infection. The precise procedure and precise target group definitions for testing, as stated in the notification, are the task of the following days, so that you will soon be able to receive information from the representative and everyone else, but our main goal has been to avoid teaching where the coronal virus has appeared in any way. That's why the operational tribe has ordered me within a short time, in any case within a few hours. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] digital work order, where either a teacher or a student has been infected so that that class or even the whole school can switch to digital work order. We are trying to reduce the spread of the epidemic as much as possible with this new measure, as we have seen from many other examples, the Austrian example most recently. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, although every word about the epidemic is very important, please pay more attention to the time frame. Congresswoman, please. [[12.50]]
u2020-11-09-70	Thank you very much for your answer. Although I did not get an answer to social workers, but at the time I did not ask, I would rather suggest that the government think about the fact that social workers should be tested in the same way, since they are also exposed to infection, especially in the elderly home or even in homeless shelters. There is also one question left, and this is when the conditions for digital education will be created everywhere we know that there is, where it is created, but there is, where it is not, and it is planned that the secondary school may be involved and digital education will be introduced there. Several trade unions have requested that high school students, elementary school students, be included in this circle. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-71	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, He also asked you a written question about the therapeutic educators, the mobile pedagogical network, the care and care of children with SNI during the epidemic situation, so I was able to answer you very long and in detail how we could try to solve this and what suggestions were made to help this in a digital environment. As regards exactly who and how they are affected by a measure, you can see that there is almost no day when the operational tribe does not start work at dawn by reviewing the situation and taking current measures. This is precisely why we are asking Parliament for the authority that the left did not give the government in the spring to take a more responsible decision now, so that when rapid decisions are taken overnight or from one week to the next, we must respond quickly to the spread of the epidemic, and this legal opportunity should be given. It is not the responsible attitude that I address this to the Member, but to those around you, that they run abroad and call for dictatorship, and say that even Parliament does not meet, but that the responsible attitude is to support it and give it the opportunity to react quickly to a rapid change in cases. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the government and the epidemiological authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Sándor Burány, the representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Mr President, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[On the sign of Sándor Burány:]] Thank you very much for informing the Member that he accepts the person who is responding. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-09-74	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, Clearly, the more the government delayes with a decision, the more brutal measures it has to take. We were all sitting here in Parliament this spring, when we were talking about whether or not to wear a mask. You, at the time, were very skeptical and were not at all on the side of masking; you see one miracle weapon in this today, and the other miracle weapon, in the form of vaccines, we must wait. They spent the whole summer slumbering instead of preparing for the second wave. Then, in the fall, reality kicked the door to you in pairs, and from week to week, more brutal numbers came, unfortunately not only about the increase in the number of diseases, but also about the increase in mortality. Last week, a week ago, I mentioned it myself, but in the week before that, it was clear that the ECDC, according to the European Institute of Health, had died in Hungary over the last two weeks per 100 000 people in Europe, and it would have been good to miss this podium, and according to the same institute's reports, we are in one of the last places for tests, although it would be better to be in a podium. They could have decided on more serious measures at their government meeting last week. Compared to what was announced at the time, today's announcements are brutal. Why did you have to wait a week? Not to call the Austrian Chancellor? And if Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has already called the Austrian Chancellor, why didn't he ask him about the OSH? After all, in Austria, the government pays 80-90 percent of the wages if the epidemic requires the closure of a job. Why haven't they come this far in Hungary yet, what are they waiting for? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2020-11-09-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Minister Gulyás Gergely will answer you. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As far as the rules of masking are concerned, if I understand your speech correctly, then, of course, you congratulated me not on the success of the spring defense, that in spring we had a good estimate of what was needed for effective protection, and that we had already obtained all the tools needed to defend ourselves in spring. This is why Hungary today is one of the most prepared and prepared countries for the crisis, both in terms of hospital beds and in terms of protective equipment, from the respirator to the masks and gloves. So what I can tell you is that everything that the government did in spring and summer is proof that we counted on the second wave, not only did we say that, but we did a lot in the period when the infection was significantly lower. Now it is necessary to see that more stringent measures have been taken everywhere in Europe, without a doubt, the Hungarian measures are also extremely strict, they serve to slow down the spread of infection, to ensure that the peak is as high as possible. Fine. However, I do not recommend that we choose some days: if you are looking at today's mortality figures, Hungary is the 18th, the ninth best among the Member States of the European Union. I think that there is a clear standard of protection, this standard is that since March, since the outbreak of the corona virus in Europe and Hungary, how many people have died, how many have been infected, and if you look at them, Hungary is around half the average of the European Union in terms of mortality and is even better in terms of infections. So I can only say that people's lives, all human lives are irreplaceable and unique, but still, if we want to look at the whole defence in numbers and you brought this up, Hungary is one of the effective defence countries, and in order for this to happen, we must now introduce and enforce more stringent measures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-77	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány for a one-minute rejoinder and give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-09-78	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The figures show Hungary in the middle field when we watch the spring with the autumn numbers. I was talking about the numbers for the last two weeks. We're in third place in terms of the number of deaths, so it's very bad. You just listed the means of defense. He did not mention one of them, and this is the possibility of tests, and the possibility of tests, from us to the north, in Slovakia, while the Hungarian government decided to test the whole country, according to the same statistics, the third of the mortality rate there. Today you have reached the point where we have been demanding free mass testing for weeks to allow at least some of the front line workers to be tested. It is painfully lacking in this line of social workers who cannot afford the luxury of doing their job at home offices. Dear Minister, We need free mass testing to prevent trouble, because those on the ventilator [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At best, they have to face a 50 percent mortality rate. That's what you have to avoid.
u2020-11-09-79	Thank you very much, Congressman Burány. I salute my fellow Members. Minister Gulyás Gergely is also entitled to the rejoinder.
u2020-11-09-80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is one of the countries that have followed WHO, World Health Organisation protocol on testing. It can be seen that with the appearance of antigen tests, although the accuracy is lower, but the possibilities are obviously expanded, so now you can also use a method that is less accurate but has a rapid result. We can say that in the current phase of protection, we have seen it justified that teachers and health workers are regularly tested, they do so in a lot of workplaces, by the way, but we believe that the solution to the coronal virus epidemic will indeed be the vaccine. The aim is to reduce the number of contactees, the number of contactees, so that if the number of contactees is reduced, the spread of the infection will also slow down. It is not primarily the test that can lead to slowing down, slowing down processes, since there it is possible to detect the virus only on specified days, when the infection is already detected. The reduction in contact numbers is certain to be available with these measures, thus keeping the virus in check, and we are all waiting for a vaccine to be available and thus the protection can be effectively closed. If you look at the data, all I can say is, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] half of the average EU death rate is in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2020-11-09-81	Thank you very much, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What protects us from the threat of terrorism? It's an address. I ask the Member to accept the Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, who has been appointed to reply. [[For signal:]] Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Peter Agh.
u2020-11-09-82	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, in addition to the epidemic, there have been other threats to Europeans: Islamist attacks, which strike as warning shots in Europe's cities. A week ago, the city of Vienna was hit hard. A solitary Islamist assassin from an immigrant family killed four defenseless people and wounded 23. Two weeks ago in Nice, a migrant with a knife brutally killed three people in the Notre-Dame basilica; an elderly woman preparing for the morning Mass was beheaded. The killer arrived in France two days before the assassination, from Italy, from which he was expelled, so he was illegally staying, yet he was free to move on the territory of the Union. The attacks are yet another proof that suicide is the attitude that the leaders of many Western European countries are dealing with migration. Immigration is not a solution for Europe's future, but a source of problems. Hungary does not want to enter the trap, which is why we have been fighting for years. However, we have now again been prosecuted for misconduct; this time because the Hungarian system does not allow a refugee to enter Hungary freely. There is no question that the Hungarian government will resist pressure again. We sympathize with the loved ones of the Viennese, Nice victims, the two nations who were struck by the plague. It is wrong to think that both cases could have been avoided if the rules on immigrants were stricter or if effective administrative cooperation between countries had been appropriate. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: what are the risks of the proliferation of such lone attacks? What steps will the Hungarian authorities take to eliminate dangerous persons as far as possible? How does the wallet help all this? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-83	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Agh. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2020-11-09-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, We are sorry for everyone whose loved ones or themselves have suffered any kind of damage to the terrorist attack or to the deceased. It is shocking that a terrorist wave is rushing through Europe, a wave of terror that I think cannot be overlooked. It cannot be overlooked that extremist radical Islamic organisations are being strengthened in Europe. And they are being strengthened in Europe for the reason that some countries in Europe are allowing immigration, with their own interests, European interests aside, uncontrolled illegal immigration. We must note that these attacks are aimed at the culture of Europe as a whole, against the lifestyle of Europe as a whole, against the way of life in Europe. Following the terrorist attack in Vienna, the Counter-Terrorism Center sent operational and reconnaissance units to the border. At the time, it was not clear and clear that it was a lone assassin, and TEK was in constant contact with both Austrian and Slovak employees, offered help, and the exchange of information has continued ever since. On 5 November, the National Security Committee heard reports from civil and military national security authorities on events in Vienna and terrorist threats in Hungary. We can say, and according to the TEK's assessment, this is the way it is said that the threat of our country to similar attacks is moderate, but it is necessary to monitor the situation both in Europe and in the immediate vicinity of Hungary. For the events of the past few weeks [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, in view of the upcoming holiday period, an enhanced counter-terrorism measure is absolutely necessary. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-85	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Pogács. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh in return.
u2020-11-09-86	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that the current situation also fully shows how dangerous the attitude that Brussels bureaucrats represent is. This is also related to the negative attitude that we have seen here in Parliament in relation to the steps to increase the authority's data management activity. Left-wing representatives refused to do so. At the time, the left was equally opposed to strengthening border protection, even though it was key to creating our current security situation. This country clearly has a Christian culture, a radical tradition, and we know precisely that this culture has a manifestation that does not tolerate terror, it does not tolerate violence. It is up to us and the government to maintain this peaceful, safe state. So I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what steps does the wallet take to keep our border protection strong? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-87	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Agh. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2020-11-09-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The position of the Hungarian government has been clear since the beginning of illegal migration: the Hungarian Parliament has passed the necessary laws, although they have not been supported by the opposition. With protection of three, we will ensure that there is no illegal entry into the country and that any attack on the part of the European Union against this protection is avoided. The attacks in Vienna and Nice are a clear warning sign that, in addition to the epidemic, other threats continue to threaten Europe, the future of Europe, and uncontrolled immigration is not a solution for the future of Europe, but a clear source of problems. According to the Hungarian system, only Hungarian embassies in neighbouring countries can submit the application, and if the answer is no, the applicant cannot enter the country. We protect the borders of the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-89	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Pogács. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What are the lessons learned from the terrorist attacks that have taken place in Europe in recent weeks? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Tamás Menczer granted the right to reply. I'll ask the congressman... [[For signal:]] But he nodds that he does. You have the floor, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-11-09-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Of course, I accept the person who is responding, and from here we wish the Minister's recovery. In recent weeks, there have been several very alarming and bloody terrorist attacks in Europe: a French teacher has been decapitated, an Islamist terrorist killed in the church in Nice, causing the deaths of three people, all three of whom were parents of several children, and most recently a shocking and extreme terrorist attack in Vienna. Overall, a terrorist wave has struck Europe again. Of course, we strongly condemn all such acts and express our sympathy to the families and nations of the deceased. In all cases, action should be as strict as possible against the perpetrators, including those who plan or participate in such an act. According to Fidesz-KDNP, it is time to blow a wake-up call, and Western European regret Facebook posts are no longer enough for terror. The terrorist wave makes it clear that indifference to extremists and infiltrating terrorists is unacceptable and serious irresponsible, which will require further sacrifices among the citizens of Europe. It is also clear that there is a strong link between immigration and extreme Islamist acts of terrorism. Of course, Brussels can continue to pursue a policy of dumping in the sand, or it can produce the rule of law mechanisms to be used for political blackmail instead of the substantive solutions to real problems, but this will cost European lives and we cannot allow that. This is why the Hungarian Left's policy, which serves Brussels blindly, ignores Hungarian interests and supports immigration, is dangerous, because it is irresponsible and endangers our security. [[13.10]] We do not agree that terror will become part of the life of the metropolitan city, and we will continue to do everything we can to protect Hungary, our southern borders and Europe. We protect Hungarian citizens and the real European values based on Christian culture and diversity of nations. I ask Mr Secretary of State what the lessons are learned from the terrorist attacks that have taken place in Europe over the past few weeks. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-91	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2020-11-09-92	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, What is the lesson? He was right to ask the question. I think the lesson is that we are about where we were a few years ago, as you pointed out, because we can remember what kind of terror wave we had to experience a few years ago. Thirty terrorist attacks have led to the murder of more than 330 innocent Europeans and wounded more than 1300 terrorists. There was a terrorist attack in many cities in Europe, with trucks, firearms, and whatever they could. And what we can see now is that we are about the same thing, the problem is still here in Europe. And we can also see that I very much agree with you that in Brussels and in pro-immigration, these attacks can be carried out with a few tearful Facebook posts, some usual condolences, actually as part of everyday life, and go on. This is unacceptable and outrageous. It is also unacceptable that, as long as this is not important in Brussels, it is also important that Hungary or Poland be attacked for political reasons under the rule of law. Under the heading of the rule of law, European values are mentioned, European values that are, by the way, debated as to what is European value. I just think that life has given you the answer, as you said, because I think it is European, that if someone goes to church to practice their faith, they will not be murdered, or it is European value that if someone sits in a restaurant in Vienna or in another city, of course, especially if the virus situation allows them to do so, they will not be killed. I think that these European values should be addressed, they should be protected, and that is what Brussels should be dealing with instead of launching political attacks on Member States. These are certainly important lessons. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2020-11-09-94	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I also think that the Hungarian left-wing behaviour is irresponsible because of these, too, when they rejoice that if Hungary is condemned in Brussels, they are in the middle of a terrorist wave and a coronal virus crisis if all kinds of extortion mechanisms can be brought underway. And, well, the irresponsible behavior when, in recent years, sentences such as the Socialist Ágnes Kunhalmi, who said that immigration is a false problem, or that Bernadett Szel never comes to work, who said that immigration in Hungary is not a problem, or that Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said that it would be particularly beneficial for Hungary to accept immigrants, if the entire left-wing party wanted to help them now, or Bence Tordai, who said that we have told them a thousand times that the fence built at the southern border is pointless, inhuman and wastefully expensive. I think that the behaviour of the Hungarian left is not responsible for attacking anti-immigration measures and for ignoring Hungary's interests in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-95	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. You have the opportunity to answer back to Secretary Tamás Menczer.
u2020-11-09-96	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In addition to the lessons you rightly mentioned, I would like to draw attention to perhaps two more. One is that they also say that the terrorist just came in with the migration wave or not, and if not, they are trying to show that migration is not dangerous, because the terrorist was already born here. They both show the exact same thing, and we've talked about it a lot. It doesn't matter in terms of the outcome that the immigrant terrorist has just come in, with the current migration wave, or even more than one generation, we can see that he cannot fit in, and it's not enough that he can't fit in, he wants to kill us Europeans. This shows exactly how dangerous this whole phenomenon is and how much it must be fought. Hungary, the Hungarian government, did so. We built a fence, despite the fact that, as you mentioned, the Hungarian left did not support the government, but attacked it. And we said that Hungary will not be an immigrant country, because the safety of Hungarian people is always the first for us, and it will remain that way. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-97	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK... [[For signal:]] Sorry, a little change. Thank you for your patience. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:, would you veto the European Union's very difficult budget if it was made available to the Member States for the proper use of EU funds? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. I ask Congressman Balczó to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-11-09-98	Yes, I accept, Mr. President.
u2020-11-09-99	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Balczó.
u2020-11-09-100	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Last week, an Interim Agreement was reached between the German Presidency of the European Council and the European Parliament on the relationship between the budget and the rule of law. It has become clear that a financial penalty will be imposed only if the violation of the rule of law in a Member State is sufficiently, directly affected and seriously jeopardises the protection of the Union's financial interests. This could not have been unexpected for the government, since in July Viktor Orbán signed an agreement which included a reference to this. Yes, indeed, when it was said, it was considered important to say that this was done in diluted form. Indeed. Preposterous things like, even if the defaults were compromised, whatever the sanctions were, they were out of this circle. And yet, you have now launched a campaign to talk about serialization, and now it seems that Angela Merkel is in Soros' hands, and you are talking about a political-ideological witch hunt, and all of this has been planned only because we do not want to be an immigrant country. The reality is that they do not want to accept systemic fraud of EU funds. Minister Judit Varga said that the Hungarian government is forced to reject the EU budget and crisis management package. That is why I asked: a budget that Viktor Orbán considered as a success, how important it is for Hungary, would they be able to reject it for this reason? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-11-09-101	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2020-11-09-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Congressman was also here in the debate when the Parliament adopted the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. It states that it is unacceptable to make resources subject to political and ideological conditions under the rule of law. The term "the rule of law" does not appear in the document quoted by you, which was born in the Council. Thus, the debate paper needed for the budget did not contain this kind of statement, did not allow political and ideological blackmail, contrary to the document that has just been drawn up, where the Council and the German Presidency leading the Council and Parliament's negotiating delegation made a draft. I would point out that the draft that has just been drawn up is contrary to Parliament's decision. And if the decision process is taken into account that ratification of the Hungarian Parliament is also necessary for the adoption of this legislation, then we can see that this is in question depending on the parliamentary decision. Thus, when the Prime Minister or the Minister raises the possibility of veto, where appropriate, he merely suggests that the competent decision makers in Brussels should acknowledge that there is a very blackmail character when we adopt a budget that is exemplary every seven years, and that we practically do not link and include the conditions that cannot be taken to a decision-making process in the normal legislative process, then it can be seen that blackmail is actually on the part of the Brussels bureaucrats, who want to force Hungary to accept an element that violates our sovereignty and identity in such a forced process. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-11-09-103	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Congressman Balczó has the opportunity to reply in return.
u2020-11-09-104	Thank you. The Secretary of State gave a rather specific interpretation of the important sentences contained in the conclusions of July, since at that press conference the President of the Council announced that we had achieved a historic result in this document, because the rule of law will be accountable. And the rule of law, which they want to take into account, went back to the Commission's previous proposal, where it listed what they expected in order to protect EU money. So there are no general ideological issues. And I raise this question in a completely constructive way, because let us think about it, if the Hungarian government or parliament were to veto this budget, we would fall away from huge sums, and we would be in conflict with all EU countries in a way that is harmful to Hungary. It may contribute to your failure, but it's not what we want. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We want them to represent the Hungarian interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-11-09-105	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2020-11-09-106	If you have the Hungarian interest of slumbering, then you're right. But if we are talking about what the Hungarian interest is, that we cannot give up the sovereignty and the framework to which we have joined, then we cannot be allowed to be blackmailed by financial means. The other part is that the other Member States need this money or these financial instruments. With the necessary wisdom, you can see that this is not the area where we have to confront Hungarian interests and, in practice, at the mercy of the southern states, perhaps an economic and financial crisis, force ideological conditions. And I say only to the right-wingers who have become the James Party: you would now practically accept that, under the rule of law, Hungary accepts migration, so that homosexual propaganda or LGBT propaganda can be practically imposed on the country by financial means. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Shame on you! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zoltán Balczó intervenes. László Sebian-Petrovski: Shame on you!]]
u2020-11-09-107	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. [[Zoltán Balczó constantly intervenes.]] Honourable Parliament! Dear Congressman Balczó, [[Zoltán Balczó: Excuse me.]] Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: Or do you leave everywhere without paying? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. You have the floor, Congressman Szabó.
u2020-11-09-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is a good thing that the handling of the epidemiological situation has shifted a little towards the professional direction, and is not only political, because we have heard the Prime Minister's announcement that there will be serious restrictions from Wednesday, and that mass events where 10 to 20 thousand people can be together, such as football matches, will finally be closed gates. That's what the profession is asking for, and I think it's about time the virus took off. That's what they say it's better later than never. However, as far as municipalities are concerned, it is not so gratifying that two measures have been taken in recent years that seriously affect the budgets of the municipalities. One is obviously free parking and the other is that they are forcing municipalities to provide additional services. In the last month, Mr State Secretary, I have also asked two ministries why the municipalities will not receive 2 billion forints for the public transport of rural cities this year, when this is also included in the budget. Then Secretary of State Tállai told me that this money was actually being put into the epidemiological fund. Now, in order. The nonsense is that they take money from the municipalities, put it in the epidemiological fund, and then bring it into the epidemiological fund again: an epidemiology measure that forces the capital and the cities with county rights to provide additional services, so that no resources are given to it. That's why, you can see that it's unacceptable, in a way that's going to put the municipalities to the ground. So I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will then return to the municipalities the money that has been taken from the epidemiological fund for Community transport, so that the municipalities can fulfil both their own tasks and the epidemiological requirements that you have imposed. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-11-09-109	Thank you, Congressman Szabó. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2020-11-09-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, municipalities had to return one of the funds they had taken from them before 2010, since 3,500 of the 8000 state tasks were given to the municipalities, while more than 1,300 billion forints were taken out of this sector. That's where we started in 2010. After that, the sector had to be freed from debt; the tasks performed by the central administration, the local administration and the municipal administration within the public tasks had to be redefined and thus freed the municipalities. And if you look at the situation of the municipalities as a result of this transformation, you can see that they have increased their disposable income and their own resources, that, by the way, certain tasks are no longer performed by them compared to the situation prior to 2010. This is why, by the way, there are municipalities that are not busy defending themselves against the epidemic by attacking the government, but doing their job. I know, of course, that there are local governments, and unfortunately, the Municipality of Budapest also often slips into this situation, for which politicalisation and the attack of the government are more important than the protection of the disease. I will give you the data of 30 September, and it may be even better since then: for example, the cash stock available to Budapest in Budapest is more than HUF 220 billion, of which 90 billion is cash and 133 billion are available in securities. I believe that these amounts could be used both for missed investments and for appropriate measures instead of for the government's attack. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-111	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Congressman Sándor Szabó has the opportunity to reply in return.
u2020-11-09-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, this is an untidy debate, we've said it a thousand times. You claim that the municipalities have been consolidated, and we have said a thousand times that much more resources have already been taken away than the tasks that were imposed on the municipalities at the time. That's one of the findings. The other one. If I look only at the epidemiological period, which has now been taken from the municipalities in motor vehicle tax, or as they have just increased the solidarity contribution in the following year, then it will be such a burden for the municipalities that 2300 out of 3200 municipalities will have almost no revenue, and I am not saying this, Mr State Secretary, not the opposition representatives, but three associations of municipalities, of which two leaders are fideszes. Ask Jenő Schmidt, head of the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, how they see this question. They're gonna bleed out the local government completely, and that's what they're doing! So I'm gonna ask you one more time, are you gonna get the money back for community transport from the municipalities or not? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-11-09-113	Thank you, Congressman Szabó. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, in return.
u2020-11-09-114	Honourable Congressman, The problem is that we cannot agree on the starting point because you are not saying numbers, but you are making political statements, which are quite simply not justified at the number level. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What?]] As much as you are shouting, Congresswoman, this is the case, unfortunately, because if I look only at the capital city, we have spent more than 1330 billion forints on the development of public transport. What kind of bleeding are you talking about, Congressman, while in community transport, which now plays a key role in the fight against the epidemic, are the works and developments that the people of Budapest are encountering from government and EU sources? We said that everyone had to contribute to the defence, that everyone had to do their job, and that there would be no municipality that would not be able to request additional resources from the Ministry of Interior, if appropriate, according to the specified order. [[13.30]] This option, this channel is still available. If you have a problem, turn over there. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-115	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, will now be asked an immediate question to the Minister for Families without a wallet:, Retirements on the side of the road? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Róbert Zsigó was entitled to reply. Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor.
u2020-11-09-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Why does this government want to make pensioners more poor? Why leave pensioners on the side of the road? I'm asking you. The reason why this is a legitimate question is because they tell us at every turn that the situation of Hungarian pensioners in Europe is world-class and how well they are; I am very pleased that you are here with us in 2016 when you said that the winners of the last six years were pensioners. While looking at the data, the reality is quite different. If you compare the average income, average salary, and when you retire, then how much of this is left, then this ratio in previous years was about two thirds, today only 50 percent, and we may say below 50 percent next year. The reason for this is that one of their first measures after they came to power was to change the calculation of pensions, to get out of it the so-called Swiss indexation, and in Hungarian it does not matter now how the country is doing, how the economy is doing, only inflation. For this reason, the average pension today is approximately 127 thousand forints. If the Swiss indexation had remained a way of calculating it, the average pension would be about HUF 30 thousand more today, HUF 155-160,000. Today, every month in Hungary you will take 30,000 forints a month out of the pockets of pensioners, on average from everyone's pockets every month. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State why pensioners are knowingly poor, why have they been doing this for ten years now in this country. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-11-09-117	Thank you, Mr László Sebian-Petrovski. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2020-11-09-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. In 2010, we made an agreement with the pensioners. The point is that while there is a national government in Hungary, the purchasing value of pensions remains. The fact is, Congressman, that we will abide by this agreement. In recent years, we have kept our word, and in the coming period, from the beginning of January, we will also rebuild the 13th month pension that was taken from them earlier. Congressman said why older people do not also benefit from the good performance of the economy. I would like to inform you that, over the past four years, the elderly and pensioners have received an extra payment of more than HUF 220 billion. This was done on the one hand in the form of a pension premium for pensioners, which is about the fact that they were able to receive a successful economic performance in 2017, in 18 and 19 respectively, on Christmas 17th 2016 and Easter 2018 on Erzsébet's voucher and in September 2019 on all pensioners. So we also value the elderly in that they can also benefit from the good performance of the economy. In addition, we have introduced the 40, and we have helped older people most to work under the right conditions by reducing the costs. There is a misunderstanding in you, Mr President: neither the Secretary of State Rétvári nor others have said that we have nothing yet to do and that we have achieved everything, but we take seriously the responsibility, Mr President, that what surrounds us has been given to us by the elderly, who have worked for what is around us. What we have to do, on the one hand, is to appreciate this performance and, on the other, to continue to support pensioners. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-119	Thank you, Mr. Róbert Zsigó State Secretary. You have the opportunity to reply back to Congressman László Sebian-Petrovsk.
u2020-11-09-120	Thank you, Mr. President. It is rare to confront a government figure so much by talking nonsense, forgive me, Mr State Secretary, because there is a statement regarding the purchasing power of pensions. 21 out of 27 EU Member States Hungary. Well, I wouldn't call that a success story. Poland, Slovakia beats us, Romania doesn't yet, but next year he will, too, I swear anything to you. Indeed, you have said, literally, I say, Mr Secretary of State of Rétvári, that the winners of the last few years are pensioners. The pensioners are not the winners of the pensioners, Mr. Secretary of State, and I did not bring the situation of invalid pensions here at the time, nor has the method of calculation, which the Constitutional Court considers illegal, been restored more than a year and a half after the deadline, or I did not say anything about service pensions, where you have terminated a long-term contract, Mr. Secretary of State. The situation of pensioners hasn't been corrected by this government, leaving the pensioners on the side of the road for ten years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-09-121	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2020-11-09-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought we could avoid that, but I was wrong. Honourable Congressman, My question is poetic, but do you know Ferenc Gyurcsány? As you say, yes or no? [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: What does this have to do with anything?]] If we destroy the pensioners now, what happened when you took away their 13th month pension when you raised the retirement age? You know, Congressman, when your party president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, was Prime Minister, in those days the real value of pensions fell by 4 percent. When we took over government in 2010, pay attention to a deficit of HUF 357 billion in the pension fund. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: It was an economic crisis! It's called the global economic crisis!]] This means that you have abandoned pensioners in the economic crisis. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: You left him alone!]] And we'll be watching them in the coronal virus epidemic, and we'll be rebuilding the 13th month's pension you took from January next year. So if you see Ferenc Gyurcsány, you tell him that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-09-124	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You, Prime Minister, have said many times over the past period that the first and most important defence is, and we agree perfectly with that, but at the same time ensure that the country operates. Obviously that is the case, but you are already in a position to fail to carry out the most important government tasks even in relation to the maintenance of key public services and to fail to deal with the problems. We have talked many times about the fact that the water utility sector is on the verge of collapse days ago, and we know that this is a vital infrastructure, so healthy drinking water supply and sanitation are the most important public services we can talk about. The lack of resources has left out the proper maintenance, there are still no repairs. There's a lot of pipes and more pipes and a thousand-billion-dollar problem. We agreed on that the other day, a few days ago. It is also clear that a significant proportion of service providers are economically impossible. You have been saying for years that there is a strategy to save this sector. Last we heard a few days ago, he was in front of the government, and they were consulting with the representatives of the profession. Compared to this, a few days ago some Fidesz MEPs submitted a proposal to restructure the utility tax, which is contrary to what the profession asks, which I have submitted in the last few days, that the utility tax, this face, this unjustified tribute, should be removed, as it makes it impossible to maintain the sector. The association of service providers has clearly informed the government and the government representatives concerned that, as the water utilities sector is currently in a state, no further taxation and the water utility tax must be imposed and any further withdrawal risks the sustainability of supply. In comparison, I ask the Secretary of State a few days ago, you said that measures are expected in connection with the public utility tax, so this is the measure that some Fidesz Members have submitted that they are practically not running the public utility tax, they are restructuring it, and they are trying to shift this burden to some large urban operators, thus putting their operation at risk. Thank you very much. [[13.40]]
u2020-11-09-125	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-11-09-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Last week, about 141 hours ago, we had a serious debate on this issue here in Parliament. Allow me to remind you of what you said. We agreed on a lot of things, by the way, and I don't quote them now, because they were important and good cases, and we agree on that, which I am about to quote. You said: "The small settlements are mainly not prepared for this water utility tax, nor are they prepared to pay the irrational public utility tax in any way. We know that the disproportionate and unfair burden of the utility tax is placed on a small settlement in a peripheral situation where a few hundred inhabitants are supplied. Honourable Congressman, Fidesz MEPs heard what you said and submitted an excellent proposal for the legislation that we discussed here in Parliament last week. This eliminates precisely the unfair and disproportionate situation that has taken place in connection with the water utility tax in the previous period. Honourable Congressman, This is a good proposal, a proposal that will provide real and meaningful assistance to the sector. In a total of eight cases, it increases according to my calculations, where it will be an additional burden, and in the other cases a reduction of up to 65-70 per cent will be possible for a number of operators. This means, honourable Member, that a more proportionate and fairer system will be established, a system where larger users will have a relatively smaller network in a settlement with a larger population density, and indeed more taxes will have to be paid, and in those parts where the population is scattered and there is a need for a longer line and a nicer tax. That's a good suggestion. I'm asking you to support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-127	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. You have the opportunity to respond back to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2020-11-09-128	Thank you for the floor It should be clarified that the water utility sector is not a profit-oriented sector, but it is the sector that is best burdened by the Fidesz special tax, the sector's special tax, and it has put it in an almost impossible situation, on the brink of inefficiencies. Yes, the Fidesz Members have heard my suggestion. Last week, I submitted the launch of the utility tax and the termination of the utility tax to the Economic Committee for many years. With Erik Bánki's leadership, the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP said no. Not a good proposal has now been tabled, Mr Secretary of State, but a proposal that will put several service companies in an impossible position in a metropolitan environment and will also put several municipalities in an impossible position. But with this, Mr Secretary of State, it is not these municipalities, not these cities, that are being punished, but the people who live there, because in these cities, drinking water will be impossible in the medium term. I ask you to finally adopt the proposal that the profession has been sending to you for years and which we have tabled at least five or six times. This unfair and unrealistic utility tax must be excluded. It does nothing to help the sector by restructuring the system of this utility tax, Fidesz tax. In particular, they will put you in danger in the capital and in several major cities. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the water utility service. It's not even ministerial anymore, it's prime ministerly irresponsible...
u2020-11-09-129	Thank you.
u2020-11-09-130	... Prime Minister's responsibility, and I called the Prime Minister's attention to that just a few weeks ago. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-131	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary Schanda.
u2020-11-09-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, This is a good proposal, a proposal that makes a tax more just and equal. I think, honourable Member, that this can therefore be supported responsibly and we are asking you to support this amendment. Honourable Congressman, When it comes to irresponsibleness and responsibility, look around you. You want to help politicians in power, playing from Ferenc Gyurcsány's sheet music, who want to privatise these water utility providers abroad. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] That's what they've done before. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what they always do!]] They're trying to get extra cash out. Mr President, if you are seriously concerned about this sector, then run away from that side. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! It's not too late!]] where he's at right now. It's not too late. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány's deadly embrace! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-133	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-09-134	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We are pleased that you have recovered and recovered, and we wish you further health in the name of the Dialogue. We consider the health protection measures introduced to be good, but we believe that they should have been introduced weeks earlier, and we proposed them weeks earlier. Let us hope that it will not be too late for these measures to be introduced. There are a few things I've missed, and I'd like to ask you about them. I'm asking you if you're in favour of the Dialogue's motion for sick leave. It would be nice if no one got paid less if they had to stay home during the plague. The Dialogue suggested that a hundred percent of the net wage would be paid to those staying at home during an emergency when they were quarantined. I'd like to ask you about the pensioners. To get even this year some substantial support from pensioners, inflation affected them the worst. Not only must they be supported before the election with a resuscitation certificate and Elizabeth's voucher, but also when they are in trouble, and now they are in trouble. Is there any support for pensioners this year? I'd also like to ask you about the raises. Social workers and health workers received a salary supplement this year, but now they have a very big responsibility again. We proposed a 100% wage increase at least during the emergency. Does the government support this? You've been tightening up social security lately. Those who do not have an established social security status can easily face a check of hundreds of thousands of millions. We ask that people who have been sick with the coronal virus receive an exception at least during the following period. I mean, a question in which I'm not sure you're competent to be under your authority, but it's very important, and we don't know the answer. Are curfew restrictions applicable to dog walkers? Now this period is extended, from 8 a.m. to curfew, which is a problem for dog owners. Are you planning to do something about that, or are you planning to clarify that question? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-11-09-135	Thank you very much, Congressman Kocsis-Cake. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-09-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Here in Parliament, all Members of Parliament can themselves contribute or prevent the control of the epidemic by means of their own instruments. At a time when the Hungarian left did not vote for the possibility of rapid action in the spring, or the rapid vote in favour or the continuation of important measures after the end of the emergency, but even a few weeks ago, when, for example, we tightened the fine, the mask was extended, it was not possible to expect the Hungarian opposition to do so, it shows that someone is involved in the debate on protection measures relating to the virus with a view to helping or for political gain. The Dialogue, I think, showed well who should not be entrusted with the control of the epidemic; not only with what Gergely Christmas did, that instead of going to the nursing home on Pesti Road, she posted various documents on Facebook, which turned out not to be written by the person who signed it and got caught in it, but also by submitting proposals for resolutions in Parliament, which were then withdrawn a few days later. As DK submits referendum applications on the basis of the coronal virus epidemic, which it withdraws a few days later, also referring to the coronal virus epidemic. So, honourable Member, I think it is very fortunate for Hungary not to have such leaders at the head of the country when we are indeed in a difficult situation, in the coronal virus epidemic, like all other countries in the world. With regard to sickness insurance rules, we have repeatedly said that, whether in the case of teachers or medical staff, if teachers catch the coronal virus at school, or even health workers at the hospital during work, then, of course, they are entitled to a hundred percent pension. As regards the situation of pensioners, honourable Member, the left has taken a month's pension from pensioners on the basis of the economic crisis. The right in the economic crisis will rebuild the 13th month pension to help pensioners more closely. Now, that's the difference between left-wing and right-wing thinking and action. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-137	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. [[13.50]]
u2020-11-09-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I asked you questions constructively, but you're back to the usual mantra you're constantly pushing here. Added: we did not vote for the announcement of an emergency because there was no time limit. Now they've finally set a deadline. I don't know why they couldn't do this in the spring anyway. Besides, I'd be a little more modest, Mr. Secretary. We put these suggestions on the table two or three weeks ago. You're two or three weeks behind schedule. And now you're going to lecture us on what measures they're taking? You should be so kind as to take into account the opposition's actions. We have now made an 11-point decision on the direction the government should take in the next 90 days during the emergency. Be kind to take this into account. Don't help Lőrinc Mészáros, don't build up their own power even more, don't cripple the local governments, but be kind enough to help people, take these suggestions into account. Then you'll be able to throw anything ten years ago at us if you've taken these steps, not until then.
u2020-11-09-139	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary of State Rétvári.
u2020-11-09-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We saw how the Metropolitan Municipality took action because the left led to the fact that the military eventually had to disinfect the nursing home on Pest Road. Honourable Congressman, You were talking about health pay increases. Honourable Congressman, It was you who took away the monthly salaries of all Hungarian doctors, hospital doctors and all Hungarian hospital nurses during the previous crisis. It was you who reduced the salary of health workers. And we are the ones who have prepared and implemented the largest health wage increase in Hungary's past 30 years by adopting the Hungarian Medical Chamber's wage billboard proposal, honourable Member; in the case of nurses, we are carrying out a 72 percent wage increase in four years. When the left was in power, he introduced a visitation fee, a hospital allowance. Visit fees and hospital allowances would be paid to patients who are being examined or treated in hospitals, honourable Member, that is the difference. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] between left and right. But thank you very much for your good wishes, and thank you for your human gesture. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-141	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Zsigmond Barna Pál, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "What do they get in return?" It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner has given him the right to reply. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor.
u2020-11-09-142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We have talked several times about the important battle that Hungary has won at the EU Heads of State and Government's meeting in Marathon in July. Some countries wanted to make the use of the funds from the common budget conditional on political conditions. They wanted us to have a financial instrument to blackmail us with. Then this attack was fought back, but the blackmailers wouldn't give up. Last week, some Members of the European Parliament set new conditions for the adoption of the EU budget for next year and the EU rescue package. It is only understandable that Member States that are dissatisfied with the summer agreement continue to fight to protect their own interests. What is more difficult to understand, however, is that there are also MEPs in Hungary who want to change this agreement that is favourable to Hungary. What kind of man acts against the economic interests of his own country? That's what happened last week. The representative of the Momentum, which is a youth group of Ferenc Gyurcsány, held a position against the interests of the Hungarian people throughout these negotiations. And the most shocking thing is that he did not get caught like his girlfriend did a few weeks ago, but triumphantly boasted about it. Dear Secretary of State, Now it is primarily the epidemic that needs to be dealt with, and money must be made available as quickly as possible to the countries of the south in distress. György Soros wrote four years ago about not giving budget support to those who do not allow migrants in. Hungary does not allow migrants, which is why we are being attacked, but our country cannot be blackmailed. We will still not let the migrants in, and we will get the money we owe. It is a shame that in the middle of the second wave of the corona virus epidemic, when the European economy is in great trouble, Brussels is engaged in political games instead of seeking a solution. But it is an even greater shame that, taking advantage of this, some MEPs are digging against their own country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The question is rightly raised, and I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what do they get in return? Thank you.
u2020-11-09-143	Thank you, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2020-11-09-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungary considers the core values of the European Union to be of particular importance. At the same time, some political actors use the core values to exert political pressure and wish to use a variety of sanctions against Hungary with this reference. It is unacceptable that the European Parliament will not stop blackmailing Hungary politically and ideologically in the current epidemic and despite the serious challenges facing the European economy. We cannot stress that any new mechanism that would sanction it financially or otherwise would obviously go beyond the treaties. The rule of law, as the only instrument for the abstract protection of the Union's value, is the procedure under Article 7 under the Treaties. Now we have witnessed how they are trying to circumvent the treaties as part of the witch hunt against Hungary and to sanction Hungary directly without the Court of Justice of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, In its parliamentary decision adopted in July, Parliament stated that the binding of EU funds on political and ideological conditions is unacceptable. The condition imposed by the Parliament is fully respected in the budget agreement adopted by the European Council in July. The conclusions adopted by the Heads of State or Government exclude new types of conditioning from being a rule of law focus. Dear House, A decision has been taken to establish a new general budgetary condition, which does not describe the rule of law. The objective of conditioning is not to protect the rule of law by budgetary means, but to protect the budget by taking European values into account. In view of the directions set by the Parliament, a proposal which does not comply with the conclusions of July cannot be accepted on our part. The focus of the agreement between the EP and the Council remains the rule of law violations and their threat. This is unacceptable even if some sell glass beads in Hungary's interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-145	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond.
u2020-11-09-146	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. In fact, the aim is to create an instrument of pressure and blackmail that can be used against all countries that do not want to insulate migrants, protect their national culture and identity and refuse to bow to the ideology of globalisation. The point is that they want to replace the right-wing government and replace it with the left-wing government, it's that simple. That's what this is about, the left is weak, the people don't want it, and they're trying to force it on us abroad to control them. The biggest problem is that blackmail and now delays are due to the countries of the South. They are the ones who urgently need the reconstruction package. For our part, we're fine without it. We are in favour of the South getting that money as soon as possible, but it is also very irresponsible for the European Parliament to cross it and use the coronal virus epidemic to play such small-scale political games. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder also applies to Secretary of State Völner.
u2020-11-09-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The government is familiar with the parliamentary resolution and will continue to act in its spirit in the negotiations. In practice, the actors in the Union who now want to use this financial situation for blackmail should take note of the fact that it is not Hungary who, for financial interests, would give up its identity or the interests of the people who live here to protect it against migration. The Left should also consider within the EU that it is putting those Mediterranean left-wing governments at risk, putting the countries there at risk of the economic and financial crisis, the more serious consequences of which are endangering jobs there, that it wants to include an additional spirit in the adoption of the budget for the adoption of the seven-year budget and the Next Generation, which was not previously included and which the existing institutions of the Union have already served well and would continue to serve well in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-09-149	Thank you, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman says she'll accept it. You have the floor, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. [[14.00]]
u2020-11-09-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome, Secretary of State, and I would like to wish him good health in the first place. The world has had to live with the corona virus epidemic for almost nine months, and thus Hungary has to live with it. We are in the second wave of the plague, and the epidemic is on a rising branch in Europe, including our country. Today, Prime Minister, we have talked about 109 thousand people who have been sick in our country since the outbreak began and 8 million people who have been sick at European level. The most important task now is to protect and protect the health of Hungarian people while maintaining the country's functionality. During the first wave caused by the virus, health experience is extremely important and extremely important. Now, in the second wave, the health care system is in a heroinic struggle. Health workers and doctors are fighting a superhuman battle, and I think we can all say that the country of Ignác Semmelweis and Albert Szent-Györgyi can be proud of his doctors, health workers and nurses. Thanks to the measures taken by the Hungarian government, hospitals are equipped with protective equipment, masks, ventilators and hospital beds. With regard to ventilators and hospital beds, we are doing well at European level, and thanks to the help of professionals, health care is increased, delayed surgeries are suspended. Last Friday, Prime Minister said that at the end of November, two thousand intensive hospital beds may be needed, and in mid-December, four hundred hospital beds will be faced with such difficulties that there may be 30,000 coronal virus infections at the same time. Therefore, my question to the Secretary of State: does the health care system bear the extra burden of the coronal virus epidemic? How many beds are available and how many respirators? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-151	Thank you, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-09-152	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I would also like to thank Mrs President for her personal, kind words. It is growing all over the world, and not only is it constantly growing, but there is an exponential increase in the number of patients with a coronal virus, which is why the supply has reached its limit in many countries. Hungary is constantly increasing its capacity, and hospitals also had to provide tens and twenty thousand beds in hospitals in order to care for patients with coronal viruses. We are platformers in hospital beds, we are platformers in a ventilator, if you look at European or world rankings. Capacity is constantly increasing, and we really thank everyone who is involved in this work, because it is still very hard weeks and it may be months before Hungary and all the countries of the world. But what does the left do in this situation? What does Lajos Korózs do? We saw Lajos Korózs make a kamuvideo. That's why the right-hand side demanded that you leave the chair of the Welfare Committee. But he didn't do that, he did a fake stats job after the kamuvideo, and he put it on Facebook. From different years, he compiled inappropriate data in order to say untruely that the main cause of death is the corona virus in Hungary. Even his left-wing fellow politicians warned that what he said was unreal, and not only did Lajos Korózs have to delete his Kamuvideo from Facebook, but also his fake statistics. The man on the right, therefore, who was called to leave the chair of the Welfare Committee because he was completely uncredited and incompetent, became a repulsive fake news producer, since on the same subject he did not refrain from making false claims, but produced another false news. So now the Kamuvideo Lajos Korózs became a fake posterist, Lajos Korózs. And this is the man who the Hungarian left has placed in the chair of the People's Welfare Committee, because he believes that he is the one on the left who can best assist in the defence against the Hungarian coronal virus, while he is only capable of producing false news. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-11-09-154	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The most important thing right now is that we should take care of each other, and together we will really succeed, especially for the sick and the elderly! I think that Albert Szent-Györgyi's quote is worthy of finishing this speech, because we hope that the vaccine is close:. Explore something, it means seeing what everyone sees and thinking about what no one else has. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-155	Thank you, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Secretary of State, you have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-11-09-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is precisely in order to focus on patients with coronary virus on their treatment, and therefore, from 10 November, interventions that do not require immediate care should be postponed. Of course, there are oncology, transplantation and other interventions that cannot be postponed. We've seen the news that in France, cancer patients are being moved back. In Hungary, such interventions cannot be postponed, precisely so that we can concentrate as much as possible on the treatment of patients with coronary virus, also because of the numbers that Mrs. The fight against the epidemic, as I have said, really requires more performance from everyone. Health workers do this, but unfortunately we see that some left-wing politicians in this situation are making false news. We can say that the virus denies and fake newsmen pose the same threat in the fight against the virus. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-09-157	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. You have the floor, Congressman Steinmetz.
u2020-11-09-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In response to a previous written question, you said that your aim was to provide a secure hospital to help people in the Marcali area with a higher standard of treatment. The question is what this will mean in practice. Waiting lists dropping? They're rebooting obstetric gynecology? They're rebooting the children's ward? Will you get a CT, Mr. Secretary? Yes or no? Attila Móring József acknowledged in 2018 that the integration with Kaposvár Hospital failed. And he also promised people that from the beginning of 2019 the hospital in Marcal will become independent. But that didn't happen. Therefore, in July this year, Mr President, Mr President, you promised again that, more than that, on 1 November, the hospital in Marcal will be independent. In a television interview, he even claimed that Minister Kásler had already made a decision on this and, as he said, that it was written about property. So I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State, did the hospital at Marcali become independent on November 1st? Yes or no? Did Minister Kasler make a written decision that the Marcal hospital will be independent from 1 November? Yes or no? And if so, why hasn't it been implemented? And if not, how could Attila Moring promise this to the people? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-09-159	Thank you, Congressman Steinmetz. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-09-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am very pleased that you also support Congressman József Attila Móring, who has repeatedly said to the public that the independence of the hospital in Marcal is very important to him. He was at the forefront of this process, and I see that there are many others who support him in this, regardless of his political affiliation. You know that there has been a long process here, and you have supported this process several times, which we thank you for. And indeed, perhaps during the summer or I don't know exactly when he submitted his last question, when we said that only months were left to separate the hospital in Marcal from being an independent institution again. Hungary is constantly increasing its health resources by HUF 770 billion this year, and next year, at least HUF 915 billion more is included in the budget than was included in the budget adopted in 2010. To do that, we're going to add to what we're going to be spending on dealing with a coronal virus epidemic in the health section. So there are extra resources in health care. That is why it is important that we ensure a higher level of health care for everyone, as you rightly ask. The process by which the EMMI and the State Health Care Centre take action for autonomy has also begun. A good part of these measures have already been taken, but there are still a few measures to be taken. [[14.10]] Obviously, this institutional transformation has not been facilitated by the fact that, in recent months, a very important task of the health care system is to protect against a coronal virus epidemic. I think it's only natural that this caused some delay in institutional transformations. But the clear decision was made that the hospital in Marcal should be independent, and the realization of this, as I mentioned to you, is only a few months away from now. Obviously, if there hadn't been an epidemic, this would have been a simpler institutional transformation process. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-161	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Congressman Steinmetz has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-11-09-162	Minister of State, therefore, the independence of the hospital in Marcali on 1 November has not been achieved, as it can be seen that no written decision has been made, because it would obviously have informed us. And it follows that Attila Moring József lied to people, cheating them over and over again. This is also interesting because the congressman himself has said earlier that he is hardly believed in the city anymore. The congressman also said that you would throw him out the door regularly and climb back through the window. But why is that? Is it because he doesn't agree with you about his unrequited promises? The CT, the rescue helicopter landing, the military operation, the independence of November 1st? Well, that's very sad to hear. The congressman will certainly ask for people's trust again in a year and a half, but the question now is that he will enjoy your trust. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-09-163	Thank you very much, Congressman Steinmetz. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary of State Rétvári.
u2020-11-09-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know exactly if the second minute you were speaking for the hospital in Marcala or against Attila Móring József. Let's stick to the first one first. So you know that there have been significant improvements at the hospital in Marcal, and you know that patient care is still taking place, under the circumstances that these benefits can take place during the coronal virus epidemic, obviously with increased safety standards. So the hospital continues to work, the improvements have been made even when it was not an independent hospital but an establishment, and it is also certain that the decision has been made, and you have been given several written answers that sooner or later we hope that this autonomy will take a legal form. And the rest of it, I think, was more like a copy of an election campaign speech. I think we should be glad together that what Congressman Attila Moring is fighting for is what you are fighting for. You support him in this work. Indeed, it is very persistent, indeed it has been agreed many times, because it considers it a very important purpose for this autonomy to happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-09-165	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: . How many more people have to die? Don't go to war. Take action immediately. It's an address. Minister, because of your absence, you have authorized Secretary Bence Rétvári to answer. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-09-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I've been trying to find out what's going on in this country about flu vaccines for weeks now. I have been asking questions in Parliament for several weeks, and also written questions to Minister Kásler and Minister of the Interior. On Thursday and Friday, the answer to two of my written questions was received, and allow me to express the answers I received. The government can't tell what the demand for a lower risk vaccine is, it can't tell how many potential claimants there are, they just know that there can be all those who are potential claimants. The government can't tell us where a new dose of vaccine will come from, if the current dose runs out, just know that there will be some, and there will be some. The government can't tell when there's gonna be a new dose of vaccine, if the current one runs out, then all it knows is that there's gonna be one. The government can't tell you exactly what kind of vaccine you've been counting on for teaching materials that have become free because of the coronal virus, all they know is that there's 1 million 300 thousand vaccines and 100,000 four-component vaccines, and there's enough. 90 percent of the general practitioners surveyed say that despite the high interest in influenza vaccinations, they can hardly solve it because there is no sufficient vaccine. I just want to ask you, Mr. Secretary, when you stop lying and stand up and say that there are 1 million 300 thousand doses, that's all, because you weren't prepared for the summer, you weren't working, you were on the bridge, you were yachting, you were doing everything, you just didn't deal with the job. Stop lying to me and tell me that's it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-09-167	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-09-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, What we are saying is that what you are saying, you quoted from the answers, they were not quotes from the answers, but accusations from you against the government, honourable Member. Our goal this year is to provide free flu vaccination not only to former risk groups, older people, health workers, people suffering from certain diseases, but also to protect the wider masses of Hungarians from simultaneously reporting symptoms of flu and coronal virus. This is what we want to avoid as many times as possible. I think it's a goal that all reasonable people agree with. When we talk about numbers, we can see that, as there were about 1.3 million doses of vaccine available last year, slightly more than half of it was finally submitted by people, and this year overall, as you may have quoted, 1.4 million are available. So the number of vaccines available is twice the number of vaccines administered last year. This is the double we've prepared for this year. We consider this to be very important and I think that you consider it important, Madam honourable Member, and you can agree that there should be no financial obstacle to the administration of influenza vaccination. Don't tell me that I don't have money to replace this in the pharmacy, but to ensure free of charge in this situation during the outbreak of the Crown Virus and during the resulting economic crisis for everyone, for the most part, free of charge for vaccination against the epidemic, because it is free, we hope that you can get it to a lot more people. The government has sought and strives in the coming weeks and months to find all the resources, wherever possible to obtain further vaccines, in the coming weeks, to avoid vaccines to the general public, and this shows that a country should also have its own capacities in a globalised world, and that this is what needs to be focused on. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2020-11-09-170	Thank you very much. You know, Secretary of State, in 2009, when the flu outbreak started a new type of flu epidemic, 1 million 300 thousand vaccines were available free of charge to the population. In fact, at the time the government worked, and that summer, prepared for the winter period, 6 million vaccines were ordered, but of which 4 million vaccines were available free of charge to the population, and 3.5 million people submitted this vaccine, Mr. Secretary of State. You know, Mr. Secretary, when a government works, there's a vaccine. Just, you know, let me give you another number, Mr. Secretary. 2493 dead so far in Hungary. Isn't it enough, Mr. Secretary, to stop lying? 2493 today. I think it would be enough for them to finally get to the point where they don't go to war, but to act and work. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-09-171	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-09-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You can talk in different styles. When you're working and doing a job, I'm not saying what kind of sign you use to produce strong images. We don't want to operate like you do. However, in order to prepare for the second wave and protect the Hungarian people, there have been a lot of steps in this country. There is a protection framework without upper limit in Hungary, there are no financial limits. [[14.20]] The wages of Hungarian doctors, precisely because of the tasks of defence, are raised by the government to an unprecedented extent. As you can remember, you have reduced the wages of doctors; the government raises, we raise the nurses by 72 percent. You can remember, you've reduced it. As you recall, you've collected a visitation fee. You can remember, you've been taking hospital expenses. To prepare, that's why we made every move over the summer. If you look at it, if you were talking about the dead, honourable Member, how much is the number of dead in the European Union per million inhabitants? 431. And how much in Hungary? 249. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In order to achieve this much lower rate, honourable Member, it has taken a lot of steps in recent months. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, According to the agreed agenda, this agenda is closed, the time has passed. In view of the fact that no political group has asked for a question, this item will not be discussed. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-174	Mr President, Dear House, Last week, I told Parliament that winter was coming. I didn't think that this week, with Tuesday nights, would in essence close the country, and that there would be restrictions that would be absolutely debateable. In the previous weeks, we talked a lot about what kind of limitation would be reasonable, and which one might be a little question mark, but it is certain that the runaway epidemic has changed the urge to act, triggers and needs to move somewhere. At the same time, we see that while the country is closing and there are many restrictions, there is a free team in Hungary that does not meet these restrictions. Typically, we think of executives who, with respect for the exception, must treat Hungarian families fairly in a very large number, but we also have to say that they do not do so in many, many cases. So, while the world freezes on Tuesday night, on Thursday at 1:00 a.m., an eviction event started with a NAV debt of 1.5 million was announced in Szentendre, which is why they want to take the family house now. This executor thought it right that an epidemiological emergency, in the middle of a quarantine situation, when getting a new home, getting a new job is virtually impossible, he thinks it is appropriate to put this family out of his home, and I would like to stress that it is unattended. The Government of Hungary is also an accomplice in this process, since it is customary to announce the moratorium on eviction on 15 November, but now it is ready to accept a restrictive package without extending it to evictions. So I would like to send a message to the government with all my desperate efforts that if you want to vote on a package tomorrow and decide on certain restrictions, you should also be aware of the responsibility, so that you can compensate for the loss of wages, even for those who may have lost their jobs, and think that evictions simply cannot take place at such a time. But let's move on. Also on Thursday at 11 a.m., another eviction was announced to Érd in the case of a family who had already been evicted from his home and put on the street. They moved in as tenants to a landlord they're trying to take the apartment away from. They claim that there is no longer a debt, that everything has been paid, that there is a dispute with the enforcer, who is therefore being prosecuted. At the same time, this dispute does not have suspensive effect, even for a few days to the moratorium, so this family, tenant, landlord, both of them's familia, it looks like they'll put it on the street if this government doesn't intervene in the next 24 hours. One more reason, then, is to expect your very urgent action. We also see that on 10 November at 10 a.m., even before the big freeze, the XV. in the district, an eviction where children, elderly, sick, disabled family members are to be evicted together. After receiving HUF 4.5 million, 7.5 million has already been repaid, and there is supposed to be a claim of HUF 8 million left. What is outrageous, however, is that the debt of this family was paid and paid as a market kofa, and, finally, an auction took place at the time of the 15th anniversary of the 15th century. in the district, once again, Budapest XV. 70 square meters of property in its district was advertised for HUF 16 million, so it is likely that for less than half the market price, and the property of this family accumulated over the generations, as would have been quite simply impossible in a fair national economy and during a national course. Thus, the basic conditions of a fair national economy are called into question, and the national orientation of this government, since it is obvious that it should not leave such a mass abuse. What we see is that the fourth. I am talking about these few days of eviction, so the next two or three days are emphasized, which want to evict a person with a positive test at the Újpest eviction event, who has been sick in a coronal virus, whose previous eviction could only be prevented by an activist's phone, which he did to the public health department, but we also see that, contrary to these events, the average person simply does not enjoy immunity in Hungary. If there are freezing and restrictions, I do not believe that there can be any debate about this including eviction. I therefore call on the Government of Hungary to declare the moratorium on eviction without delay, otherwise all of this tragedy and disaster will be on the hands of the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-09-175	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Tünde Szabó, Secretary of State, Member, Fidesz:. Job creation and job protection in Nyíregyháza. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2020-11-09-176	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, where my constituency is located, was one of the most disadvantaged regions of Hungary in 2010. On the other hand, I am pleased to report here, among the walls of the House, that, thanks to the work of the government, the situation has now improved significantly, and between 2010 and 2019 the value of industrial production in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county has increased by 158 percent. Accordingly, investments in the region are significant. In recent years, with the support of the Hungarian investment promotion system, a total of 29 positive decisions have been taken concerning the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county in relation to the projects. These projects represent more than 6,700 new jobs and more than €700 million in investment volumes in the region. Of the 29 projects, 7 are also affected by Nyíregyháza sites, and these seven projects represent more than 2,800 new jobs and some EUR 272 million investment volumes. These investments also contributed to the ninth place of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County in the ranking of 19 counties and the capital in the first half of this year, with an investment performance of HUF 71 billion. The county also holds the top ninth place in the rankings of 19 counties and Budapest in terms of foreign capital investments per capita. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, the foreign investment per capita was almost 1.5 million forints in 2018, which is 53,6 percent of the total national value. However, we know that the Covid-19 epidemic has created a new situation in the world economy and in the economy of our country. In this new global competition, we can only succeed if we support companies that invest in increasing their capacity and improving their technological development. To date, 37 companies implementing investment projects in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County have received support under the Competitiveness Support Programme, representing more than HUF 18 billion in investment volumes and some 6400 held jobs. In order to mitigate the crisis caused by the Covid-19 epidemic, the Government launched a programme for job protection and job-creating wage support in the framework of the economic protection action plan. [[14.30]] Aid for reduced working time enterprises and occupations was intended to help businesses and their workers in a difficult situation in the context of the epidemic by partially compensating for wages lost due to reduced working hours. The point of the aid is that the worker can receive support on the basis of an application made with the employer to the county government office acting as a public employment body, if reduced working time is applied to prevent the loss of firms in difficulty due to the epidemic and to protect jobs. From 16 April to 31 August 2020, almost HUF 1.2 billion in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg was awarded in the framework of wage support for job protection, which contributed to the preservation of almost 8 000 employees of 507 companies. Of this, only the Nyíregyháza of the county seat is represented by 230 companies, with a grant of almost half a billion forints, which they were able to obtain, while 18 companies in the municipalities of Nyíregyháza received employment protection wage support. The employment support programme, which responds to the negative effects of the epidemic on the labour market, was also available from 18 May to 31 August this year, whereby employers could receive non-refundable support on the basis of an application to the district office acting as a public employment body if a registered job seeker was employed in the framework of an employment relationship. The duration of the payment of the aid shall be six months, subject to an additional three months obligation to continue employment without any aid. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The programme provided job opportunities for more than 2800 people in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county [[The president's ringing again.]] , which provided additional support to almost 1500 companies. So thank you very much. Together, the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic...
u2020-11-09-177	Thank you.
u2020-11-09-178	... we'll work it out together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-11-09-179	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Tapolczai Fideszes, Member of the European Parliament, applied for a post-municipal speech with the title "The Margója of the Hungarian Sign Language." You have the floor.
u2020-11-09-180	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 9 November 2009, the Parliament unanimously adopted the Act on Hungarian Sign Language and the Use of Hungarian Sign Language. In recent times, on 9 November 2017, Parliament adopted the parliamentary decision on the day of Hungarian sign language. It is unique in Europe that we have such a complex sign language law. There is a special day of Hungarian sign language. Every year since 2018, we celebrate this day in different forms. Within the framework of the World Deaf Day event, on 9 November, there was a series of independent programs. Now, because of the epidemic situation, we can only celebrate this day online or with this speech. Another very big step has been made on sign language: on 3 July 2020, Parliament also unanimously adopted the amendment of the Sign Language Act, which contained very important elements, and I would highlight some areas. In Europe, but perhaps even in the world, it is possible to take a state-recognized language exam in Hungarian sign language from 1 July 2021. The other thing is that we create a list of sign language teachers, which raises their work to a higher level, which ensures that those who want to learn Hungarian sign language can receive this knowledge only and only from qualified instructors. The so-called deaf interpreter profession has also been established. This will provide a job for hearing-damaged people who can work alongside hearing sign language interpreters in the future, helping each other work and helping them communicate. There has been a very important amendment, which we have been in this area for a very long time, financing medical interpretation. With this amendment, we have achieved state-funded health sign language interpretation. Among other things, different definitions have been clarified. Here I would like to mention the name of Iván Vasák, who has been Secretary General of the National Association of Deafs and Hearers for 16 years. After the change of regime, he was the first deaf secretary-general, the first secretary-general who could truly control the life of the deaf community from above without manual control, one of the greatest warriors of the recognition of sign language. In February 2020, he unfortunately passed away. This Saturday we also commemorated him, in the garden of the National Association of Deafs and Hearers, a very beautiful and worthy monument to him and his work. I would like to remember it this way, and we owe it a great deal. I would like to make one more suggestion: five to six years ago, the so-called Kontakt sign language video interpreter service, already known and repeatedly mentioned by many people, was launched, allowing online interpretation. Then we could not have foreseen the situation that we would be in with the epidemic, and I dared not think that if we had not established this Contact Interpreting Service, where would we be now, how would we be able to deal with it without online interpretation assistance. The situation, life, has shown how useful and good it was for the Sign Language Translator Service of Kontakt. I would like one last thought: sign language belongs to everyone. The call of the World Testament of Deafs was this year, and this was the motto of their call that sign language belongs to all. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-09-181	Thank you very much to Gergely Tapolczai and his colleague. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-09-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, There are many areas in Hungary today that although it is worth seeking responsibility and responsibility, the situation and the problem are still not solved. Therefore, I believe that it is not a matter of looking for a responsible person, but rather of pressing for a solution. Based on the latest KSH data, the average earnings in Hungary today are 406 thousand forints, this is more than 500 thousand forints in Budapest, and it is also lower in the countryside, which means that there is a difference between sectors, positions and positions, which may be obvious and legal, but at the same time these scissors are hugely open, and there are those who earn extremely little. And in a rural settlement, you can't imagine where these KSH data come from, because they don't think these data are real. I would like to highlight a sector, and this is the social sector, the social sphere. Although they have studied a profession, they look at their work as a profession, they are employees of the social sphere. And their situation is characterised by the fact that the circumstances, the material and moral values currently present in Hungary, are unworthy and even shocking. [[14.40]] I will not examine what the government has done and what it has not done, what previous governments have done and what they have not done, what they have missed. These people, if they didn't want their jobs, they didn't want their vocations, if they hadn't been working out of dedication, respect for humanity and love, they would have abandoned their vocation a long time ago, changed their careers, changed their careers. The fact that the social sector is still functioning today is the same as the health care workers in the healthcare system, because of social workers in the social sphere. But what are they doing? You might say they accompany people, our fellow humans, from the cradle to the grave. Some people are in a children's home, some are in a nursing home, some work in a home with disabilities, some work with the homeless, some work with the poor, some are sure to help the fallen and raise them. It is a difficult profession, which requires not only versatile expertise, but also preparedness, sacrifice, humanity and genuine compassion. Personally, I am a great admirer of all professions, but those who help others, by the way, even taking the burden off us, I think they deserve all the respect and all the recognition. In the current epidemic situation, either in spring, summer or today, they are not as much responsible and burdened as an ordinary person, much greater, as they live their days among people with a weakened immune system among patients and work day by day, so they are much more exposed to the risk of infection. We have heard from the government many times that the workers in this sector need to be treated morally and financially, but the problem is that nothing has happened. But now we have come to that level, to the situation where we must give them all the help we can. But why do we need help? For example, as a teaching assistant working with more than 40 years of work in the social sphere, a person who spends his daily life and helps receives a net salary of HUF 159 thousand. It comes out that, by the way, the basic salary is HUF 105 thousand, and it finds out that it is a mandatory allowance of HUF 105,000, as it reaches the guaranteed minimum wage, and then a few allowances are added to its gross income, which, by the way, receives 159 thousand net. A person working in the day care of older people with more than 30 years of work earns 152 thousand and also 30 years of home assistance for 172 500 forints. I think it's unworthy of them. By the way, this is due to 30 percent in some areas, but there are parts where there is a 70 percent shortage of staff in this sphere. November 12 is the day of Hungarian social work. On this occasion, I would like to welcome all the employees of the social sector from here, the Parliament, and I sincerely wish that this sector will also achieve and receive the proper appreciation and recognition for it. We must give dignity and more recognition to this sector and to the workers in this sector, because they deserve it, and we have an obligation to do so. I'm not looking for what could have been done, what they didn't do and what's waiting for you, I'm looking for a solution. I think if we think about the past, we can't change that, but we can change the future. On the other hand, we Members of Parliament have a priority task and duty [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to give the workers of the social sector the proper respect and respect they deserve. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-11-09-183	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. Dear Parliament, Member Csaba Gyüre, notary Mr.Csaba also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:. Director of the pension problem of forced retirement judges? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2020-11-09-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Court of Justice ruled that a reduction of the previous 70-year retirement age of judges to 62 was a measure contrary to the prohibition of age discrimination in its judgment of November 2012. The decision of the Luxembourg Panel reached the end of the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission. In the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the reduction of the retirement age constitutes discrimination based on age and cannot be justified. However, according to the Luxembourg decision, the measure is not in proportion to the objectives of unifying the retirement age for public service occupations which the Hungarian legislator intends to achieve and creating a more balanced age structure within the judiciary. As you know, in Hungary until 31 December 2011, judges and prosecutors could remain in office until the age of 70. As of 1 January 2012, due to the legislative amendments made exclusively by the majority of governments in 2011, the service of judges and prosecutors aged 62 and up to the general retirement age ended on a compulsory basis. Due to the reduction of the legal retirement age, the European Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. This procedure was initiated because it was considered that such a rapid and radical reduction in the statutory retirement age constitutes age discrimination. The contested legislation has suddenly and significantly reduced the age limit for compulsory termination of service without transitional provisions which would have ensured the protection of the legitimate trust of the persons concerned. They therefore had to leave the labour market without having time to take the necessary economic and financial steps, in particular as a result of this situation. The court also referred to the fact that, on the one hand, the pensions of forced retired judges had been reduced by at least 30% compared to their previous salary and, on the other hand, the termination of the service did not take account of the period of payment of contributions, so that entitlement to full pension was not guaranteed by the Strasbourg Court in its explanatory statement. In 2012, 274 judges had to retire prematurely because of the forced retirement legislation. The delivery of the judicial retirement age in July was also found unconstitutional by the Hungarian Constitutional Court. The judges are disadvantaged when they retire in 2012 and before that, compared to the current pensioners. On the one hand, this arises from earlier lower judicial salaries and the rules governing the pension of judges. Here is an example to illustrate this. Before 2012, a retired President of the Curia Council, who started as Judge at the Supreme Court at the end of the 1970s, had a gross salary of HUF 3900 at the time of his retirement of HUF 800,000, of which 50 percent was then received, i.e. HUF 400 thousand. This retired forensic president's pension after 2012 barely exceeded 34% of his salary. So this means that your income has fallen by one third overnight. So not even the 30 percent indicated by the European Court of Justice, but just 65-70 percent was missing compared to their previous income. This situation is more than unworthy of a responsible, highly qualified career. It should also be noted that judges could not have had any other side-income except income from educational, artistic, sports and other scientific activities, so they had limited access to additional income. The problem has not been addressed by the Judicial Association, the President of the OBH or the Minister of Justice to this day, even though Directive No 12 of the European Commission also refers to the need for judicial pensions to approach the last month's income. Moreover, in 2006 the International Association of National Judicial Associations referred to Valencia as a violation of the principle of judicial independence of the low income of judges. At present, the income of active judges is being raised in several steps, but this generation has been left out of this pension increase and should be dealt with today, compared to the work they have done, with an unworthy pension. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Csaba Gyüre. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Our City, Pécs 31." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[14.50]]
u2020-11-09-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, after the agenda, I talk about the problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and I will do the same now, but I am talking about a problem system that is, you might say, of national importance, so it is not only in my area that this set of problems applies. In recent months, and in the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, we have heard from the Prime Minister many times that the first and most important thing is the protection of human life, the defence, we agree perfectly with this, but at the same time we must ensure the functioning of the country and ensure the functioning of the most important public services. We also know that local authorities play a prominent role in this, both in defence and in providing the most important public services for the people, which are the most important in everyday life. We have also seen that the municipalities are doing their best during the first wave and now, during the very difficult period of the second wave, we can say that in many cases they are taking their part in the defence work and are trying to do their best to ensure these public services. We can also see that at the same time, unfortunately, the government, we can say, considers the municipalities almost constantly as enemies and is plagued with brutal austerity measures. However, it cannot be emphasized enough that these austerity measures are not directed against or directed against cities, not municipalities, but are not punishing them in particular, but the people who live there. We can see that one of the most important public services is the provision of public transport, the provision of local public transport is, in itself, a huge and burdensome task, especially for rural authorities in a difficult financial situation. The other day, the Prime Minister announced that the government had formulated its decision to concentrate the frequency of public transport services during this epidemic period, and we agree perfectly with this, since such a measure could reduce the clearly visible crowdedness in everyday life, but the Prime Minister forgot that, on the basis of the government's proposal, the Parliament decided specifically on austerity measures concerning public transport and the local public transport system this year, so that the state practically withdrew from the financing of local public transport, leaving the cities and municipalities which were already difficult to cope with the tasks in maintaining the most important public service, in the care of its task. What I can say in particular is that in my narrower country, in my city, in Pécs, there is already a very difficult situation for public transport, and we can say that this is a kind of extremely negative and sad historical tradition. Not only the extremely difficult economic situation here, but also the corruption and corruption-prone cases in the various city-run regimes have made it difficult to maintain and develop the system of public transport. During the period led by the Balliberal MSZP-SZDSZ, there was a bus sales and bus outsourcing scandal, as a result of which the city received a serious NAV fine, the effects of which can still be felt today, and we can say that the accountability promised earlier by Fidesz has been cancelled, the names of the politicians behind this scandal have never been known. But there was a change in 2009 in the Fidesz period, when new cases of corruption were suspected, and we can say that cases reeking of corruption marked the system of public transport. In 2015, the fleet had to be replaced, and then a bad economic decision had already been taken by the then pro-government and fidesz leaders of the city, as instead of the continuous replacement, the installation of vehicle assembly capacities, a fleet, a used bus fleet were decided to purchase. At that time, in 2015, the age of that fleet acquired from the Netherlands was about eight and a half years, which meant more than HUF 3 billion to the taxpayers in Pécs. This procurement itself was carried out in a way that reeked of corruption, and in this case I, as a municipal representative, started a lot of internal investigations, and later I filed a complaint, which led to the initiation of the procedure. Unfortunately, it took us many years to get to where we are now, so the case is in court. I can say that we are doing everything we can to find out the names of the real people responsible, and that the politicians who are obviously behind this case are also known by name, but on the other hand, the development of the vehicle fleet of public transport must be ensured and its operation ensured. We therefore expect the Government to withdraw the austerity measure that makes it impossible for the measure that the Prime Minister has announced today, so that the municipality can do the compression. Furthermore, late transport reform and related measures have to be implemented for long and long decades, in particular legislative amendments need to be made in order to rethink the Community transport system in a completely different, uniform system, so that it can be combined and local and local public transport can be organised in a single system for the benefit of residents of Pécs, Komlón and the small settlements of the area in Kozármisleny. This will help to ensure a much better Community transport system that is cheaper than the current system and provides a much better service. I am confident that our proposal to be tabled again in the near future [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Members of Parliament who are not only opposition, but also pro-government may join and succeed (The President bell rings) solve this very, very important problem. Thank you very much for the President's patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2020-11-09-187	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, an independent Member, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of the complaint by the countryside. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-09-188	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I gave the title of complaint in the countryside after the book of György Moldova The Őrség's complaint, but I would like to talk about not all the complaints in the countryside, but only the problems that have arisen in my constituency, which, by the way, I think it is important that I visit a settlement not only for various events or for personal meetings, but also give anyone an opportunity to come, freely and unboundly, to speak to me, to ask me, and to hold public reception courses in all 23 settlements in my constituency during the month of October. This is not an exaggeration overall, I would like to say a bunch of hundreds of conversations and problems that arise in this House, because this is one of the aims of these public-space reception hours; the other is to be able to turn to authorities and specific ministries in specific matters, which I have already largely done, but there have also been general problems, and I would like to talk about them now in the few minutes ahead of me. Many of my retired compatriots approached me on these occasions and, not surprisingly, they complained about their pensions, on the one hand, about the level of pensions, which in many cases is unfairly low after a revised life, and, on the other hand, about pension increases, they said that they did not realise that the government would increase pensions to the same extent as inflation. And the third criticism, which has been said by our fellow citizens, the methodology for pension increases, is that everyone is receiving the same percentage of pension increases, and we have said for a long time, I have been saying the importance of a differentiated pension increase for several years now, that people with lower pensions would be given a higher rate, and those who already have a nice, hundreds of thousands of pensions, but they would be able to receive a smaller increase, it would be important to introduce this in order not to distance the value of pensions, but to approach each other as much as possible. In addition to pensioners and pensions, the other recurring problem was the question of jobs. Unfortunately, in my constituency, in many cases there is a serious shortage of paying, well-paying jobs. This is well shown by the fact that during one of my inn hours, on a Friday afternoon at one of the locations, the workers came home by a minibus, not from a closer place than they came home from Budapest after the revised days, because they have to go to Budapest, which is the locality near the southern border, a small settlement, so they have to do hundreds of kilometers a day or even weekly, but worse, in order to be able to work and earn a priceable salary. And the lack of jobs is also demonstrated by the fact that many young and less young people are forced abroad, almost everywhere they have said that young people are going to the big cities, at best in Hungary, and at worst abroad, to come home, to come back, and that is an open question, unfortunately not in many cases. The quality of the roads in the constituency was a recurring topic, even because Gábor Bányai Fidesz MP promised in 2018 in the election campaign that he would arrange for all roads that had not been renewed a few years earlier to be renewed until 2020. In comparison, this promise, this project, is very much behind. I do not want to go down all the roads, I would mention just a few, for example, the Kiskunhalas-Kecel road, which is in terrible condition, but I could mention, for example, the road from Bácsalmás to Tompa through Csichéria, and then we could say, for example, the Jánoshalma-Hajós section, and unfortunately, there are a number of roads that could be very, very well refurbished. There is a promise, unfortunately, that this is not the only thing that has not been achieved. We hope it will be fulfilled as soon as possible. I also met entrepreneurs at these reception hours, not surprisingly complaining about the scale of public burdens, which is very high, and that while multi-enterprises receive billion-dollar subsidies, these small businesses and micro-enterprises do not, in many cases, have or do not receive any funding. [[15.00]] In particular, there have been farm electricity problems, and in 2020 we are at the point of saying that some farms do not yet have electricity, and this is a very serious problem for those living there. I have already addressed this to the competent ministry. I'm afraid that's as much time as I've got right now. I trust that there will be progress in these matters. For me, these hundreds of meetings have been very useful, and I promise you that these problems that I have been able to say here, or which I have not been able to say, I am trying to keep on the agenda here in Parliament and to find a solution to them. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2020-11-09-189	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Farkas. Dear Parliament, MEP László Hajdu, representative of DK, also applied for a post-the- agenda speech:. Twelve days in the revolution, Imre Mécs, at the XV. "Citizen of the District." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-09-190	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, After the change of regime here in this House, in these benches, the representatives of the freely elected Parliament could sit again after several decades by those who were awarded their trust on the basis of their free will, sympathy and political values. Allow me to say a few words about Imre Mécs, one of the heroes of the '56 Revolution and Freedom Fight in the Group of the Alliance of Free Democrats, who was then the individual winner of the 23rd Parliamentary Constituencies of Budapest, Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota, the XV. represented the legislature in the district. The life of the former brave freedom fighter, now 87 years old, but still active, was not a smooth march. He graduated from the Eötvös József High School in Budapest in 1951 and was admitted to the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the Budapest University of Technology. During the revolution, he took part in the organization of the National Guard and later took part in the opposition with the participation of universities, working groups and the remnants of rebel troops. He was arrested in June 1957 and sentenced to death for his role in the revolution, and then to life imprisonment. In 1958, his attempt to overthrow the People's Republic was again sentenced to death, but the sentence was converted to life imprisonment for the intervention of Zoltán Kodály. He was released in 1963 as part of the general amnesty. He's been under police supervision for three years, and he's been hit by a political loss for ten years. After his release, he was placed in the Media Technology Cooperatives, and after obtaining his degree, he was the consulting engineer of the Clock and Műszer Cooperatives, and later Ganz Switching and Manufactures Ltd. He was a developer. He is a respected expert, published 32 patents in various fields of electronics, and about 60 scientific articles in journals. In 1988 he became a founding member of the Free Initiative Network and then of the Alliance of Free Democrats. Between 1990 and 2010, he is a Member of Parliament with minor interruptions for 20 years. Member of Parliament's Standing Committee on Defence and the National Security Special Committee, Vice-President. He has been the organizer and participant of civilian movements since 2010. With his former constituency, he still has a lively relationship, but the municipality of the district did not forget him: on 3 November, on the 30th anniversary of the change of regime and on the occasion of the 64th anniversary of the revolution of 56 we inaugurated him for his outstanding role in the struggle for revolution and independence, for his decisive activity during the change of regime. Dear House, Imre Mécs initiated an eternal flame in Kossuth Square, in front of Parliament, in memory of the heroes and victims of '56, and there we find it among the initiators of the creation of the statue of Imre Nagy Martyrs Square. He was also there on October 23, 1992, when his fellow warrior, President Árpád Göncz, was whistled by right-wing boys during his commemoration. He thought that desecrating the memory of the revolution would never happen again. You were wrong. He had to survive the removal of the Kossuth Square eternal flame, and he had to be there for the farewell of the statue of Imre the Great. And today he does not understand why the memory of the martyr Prime Minister had to be banished from near Parliament, and why the eternal flame cannot burn in memory of the victims of the former volley in Kossuth Square, the rebels, the freedom fighters, the protesting brave and dissatisfied civilians. No wonder. A lot of people don't understand. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2020-11-09-191	Thank you very much, Congressman László Hajdu. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju also applied for a speech before the agenda:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-09-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Újpest city administration, despite all the government's obstacles, is doing its best to suffer the withdrawal of funds. You should know that any decision taken in times of crisis that reduces the potential of municipalities is a government restriction and has an impact on families and people. In advance of the government's decision today, the municipality of Újpest provided rapid testing of coronavirus antigen to preschool and nursery workers, social institutions and the Municipality of Budapest, together with offering free testing to teachers and staff of public education institutions in Újpest. In the care houses maintained by the municipality, as in recent months, we continue to ensure continuous testing so that our fellow residents are safe. This is necessary to be aware of the spread of the virus, to see what we are up against if we do not give it to God, by testing we will find focal points or a group disease. In view of all of this, I therefore argue in favour of more extensive testing and taking responsibility for the elderly, instead of the government, the municipality took the necessary steps. That is why I am pleased that the Government hears the voice of the Újpestians, and in this respect, after the changes that will take place the day after tomorrow, the government will also provide such an opportunity. But there's something else that I think you need to watch out for the same way. Because the curfew after 8:00 p.m. puts dog farmers in an impossible position, and because of the protection and love of animals, it is in their interest to speak, and this tells me that I ask you to be very careful and to pay attention to what will be the specific regulation. According to the regulations that came into force in the previous days, I would say that, according to the rules currently in force, the night curfew also applies to dog keepers, the exceptions do not include walking dogs, but even emergency veterinary care is not clear. In the latter case, it is recommended that the dog's owner coordinate with the local police station's watch and discuss this with the doctor on departure. However, in dog keepers, it is right to ask whether if there is even more stringent regulation now, it will start at 8:00 in time, either during the dog walk or in case of sudden problems that require the dog to be placed on veterinary duty or other pets, there may be situations where night dog walking is inevitable. [[15.10]] The owners of dogs in unattended apartments are really concerned with this question. All you have to do is drink more, or you've got an emergency. In that case, where would your master go with it? What if the farmer works the morning shift and has to walk his dog before the work, or he has the opportunity to do so during the limitation period? As I said, the spring decrees, in the case of restrictions, the care of animals and the walking of the dog were an exception. That's not the case at the moment. It can therefore be said that walking today is not a category of existing options; the current provisions do not allow this at the time of the curfew. However, animal disease is already another category of cause. In such cases, the aim of leaving the place of residence is to protect the life of the animal, which in many cases may even threaten to cause serious damage to property. It is therefore expected that stricter restrictive measures will be in place from Wednesday. That is exactly how I ask you to think about the precise rules for the protection of animals, for the love of animals, and to do whatever you can to ensure that farmers with dogs, farmers with animals, do not suffer any disadvantage in this sense, and do everything in the interest of dog keepers and dog farmers. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-09-193	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next extraordinary meeting of the autumn session will take place tomorrow. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
