u2020-09-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I salute my fellow Members, my colleagues and all those who monitor our work. We will start our work today with speeches before the agenda, after which we will have a two-hour session of immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Fidesz's response to the basic income: Zsolt Bede? ! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-28-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, On Friday, 25 September, the European citizens' initiative launched for the basic income of the EU. The opening ceremony of the Hungarian campaign was held by the leadership of the FNA Association and the co-chairs of the Dialogue, Mayor Gergely Christmas and the leader of the Szabó Timea faction, where they said that we have said many times since that this is a celebration for European humanists and philanthropists. For European civilisation, European culture, as every successful civilization, is based on solidarity with one another, on responsibility for one another. This has been the case in ancient Greek and Roman times, Jewish-Christian times, and enlightened humanist Europe. Let us hope that this will become more and more the 21st century. The European Commission will propose the introduction of European basic incomes if one million EU citizens sign this initiative. It is therefore a holiday for European humanists and a day of mourning for Viktor Orbán and his fidesz friends, because they believe in the exploitation, submission and humiliation of people. Such a regime has no arguments against basic income. We've seen them bring up total nonsense when the subject comes up. Orbán's all-inclusive argument is that this communism is itself. My bad news, or good news, should everyone put it where they want it to be possible to introduce the basic income within the framework of capitalism, as the Dialogue has already calculated on several occasions, made a precise, programmed proposal, and as some European governments have already started to introduce the basic income... [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: And they've finished it! Nacsa Lőrinc: It's been erased!]] No, not in the least, in vain, my fellow Members are shouting at me. So from Italy to Spain soon, if all goes well, there will be more and more places and basic income [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What about Finland?]] It's the future. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Talk about Finland!]] So this is not communism, but it is not even the aid-based society. For the other nonsense is the argument of the Fidesz people that they should not give people aid, but work. I am here in Parliament explaining to you, with the patience of a medical educator, that the basic income is not an aid, but a civic allowance, a fundamental right, the right of life. Translating the right to life into the language of reality. Moreover, the basic income programme of the Dialogue is in no way counter-incentive to work, and even by raising small and medium incomes, these Hungarian workers living in poverty today, or at least underpaid, would be one of the biggest winners of the basic income programme of the Dialogue. So that's their argument going in the trash. In his last week's mental illness, Viktor Orbán shared another brilliant insight that he did not need a social Europe, and what would be a stronger form of social Europe than the introduction of a basic European income? And by doing so, Viktor Orbán is politicalising against our own national interests. It is clear that it is in the interests of a country with a lower income position than the EU centre, Hungary and all its inhabitants, that a stronger social Europe is a common European minimum wage, a common European unemployment benefit or a common European basic income. This would only benefit us, regardless of ideological beliefs, but aside from that, this is the primary financial interest of the Hungarian people. And when Fidesz runs out of arguments, when Fidesz fails to argue against the basic income, all that remains is sending inexpensive informers, 20-grade provocators to their political opponents. Fidesz is so powerless against the basic income, which is supported by two thirds of Hungarians, four fifths of Hungarians depends on which survey we are looking at, that they are trying to disrupt the dialogue press conference with such figures at the level of Zsolt Bede. I have bad news, dear Viktor Orbán, dear Árpád Habony, Antal Rogán and others: this policy has already failed once. If you have no arguments, if you do not have an attractive offer for Hungary, you will fail in 2022 as you did with the clown campaign during the mayor's election. So take back your clowns, call back the Bede Zsolts, review your position, it's not too late, you can introduce the basic income as a historic step in Hungary, and stop spreading the false news about it, the false, non-fact arguments and their sarcasm, as it is in the interest of all Hungarians [[István Szilárd Németh: Four... three...]] To introduce the basic income [[Németh Szilárd István:...two, one...]] In Hungary and in Europe. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-09-28-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said.
u2020-09-28-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, you got jealous. He got jealous because he got a competitor in the provocation, got a competitor in the troll, which you've been a European, if not a champion of the world in the past. We remember what you are doing here week after week in Parliament, what you did here at the end of last year, how you interrupted the work of Parliament, and we also remember, honourable Member, that you, as a Member of Parliament, went up to the pulpit as a notary of Parliament and repeated a syllable for a long time. That's the real troll, Congressman, that's the real provocation, that's the real frivolity, that's what we really need to deal with. Honourable Congressman, Don't ask me to account for something that you do with those multiples. You provoke me much harsher, you troll much harder than anyone in the Hungarian public life, and you do this from the Dialogue faction, which is now actually a Fake News factory, a fake news factory. Honourable Congressman, The thing is, I certainly wouldn't want to bring the medical educators here, just like you did, but in fact, you have to be patient. It takes great patience for you to listen week after week to those Fake News, those false news, those unrealities, and the provocations that you allow yourself as a Member of Parliament from week to week. [[11.10]] But, honourable Member, let us also talk about the issue that we have discussed several times here in Parliament, the basic income. What you are proposing as a basic income is the essence of it, and nothing else, and you know it, we have discussed many times that you want to be able to receive money without work, without any meaningful work. They want you not to have to work to get paid for work, and they want you to pay a lot of money. This solution, we know well, and we have seen in many places around the world that it does not encourage work, but, on the contrary, it keeps people away from the labour market on a permanent basis. That's what you want. He wants Hungary to be a less competitive place. However, Hungary decided in 2010 and several times since then that a work-based society was needed. A society where work can go from one to the other, not a life without work. That is why the idea you are proposing is in no way adequate and does not serve the goals that we have set here together. Moreover, honourable Member, you should know that the money must come from somewhere. The only way the state can provide such benefits is through taxes, i.e. people from work should pay the subsidies, the benefits you call basic income, and what those who do not want to work could get. This would not be a small step, but rather a complete return to the time when it was worth living out of aid more than it was worth living out of work, to a time, honourable Member, and you know that, for example, when unemployment was 12 percent due to the politicians and leaders with whom you are now fully furnished. This unemployment of more than 12 percent has been managed with the hard work of recent years to be below 4 percent. We also see, honourable Member, that there are places where we have tried to introduce this solution and we see the experience: in Finland, even the parties and trade unions say that this proposal has failed, that it has not improved employment. Congressman, these are facts, don't shake your head, these are facts, these are data-based claims. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, the possibility of financing the basic income would still be borrowing. You want to be indebted to Hungary, and we will not let that happen. I thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. László Keresztes, Head of the Group, LMP:. On current affairs, he applied for a pre-meeting speech.
u2020-09-28-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In today's speech before the agenda, I would like to address two issues. The first case, of course, is the coronal virus epidemic, and I would like to ask questions in that context. But, of course, I will start my speech before the agenda, as always, by thanking everyone who is working in the first line to preserve and protect the health and safety of Hungarian people. We can see that this work is carried out under very difficult conditions, and many, very often do this very important service to the Hungarian nation for low wages. We see that the situation is already very difficult and that the opinions of the professionals are in line with the fact that this situation will continue to be intensely and rapidly difficult in the next period. Ferenc Jakab, professor of virology in Pécs, head of the Coronary Virus Research Group at the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, said at a conference that, while the decisions were fast and correct in the spring, we unfortunately do not see this now, and the numbers are very gone, very worrying. The professor also referred to the fact that this will be a very, very long period, a very, very difficult and prolonged defence. That's why it's a very important and up-to-date question... I'm sorry! It is also very important to point out that we can see that unfortunately more and more health workers are being infected, many health workers are being quarantined. Every day we hear the worrying news about this, and most recently we have received such very, very worrying news from Győr, that 60 medical workers have also been quarantined and monitored. So the question is, when will the government finally take the measures considered by professionals to be sufficiently effective in order to act in order to slow down the epidemic, and when will they give the appropriate financial appreciation to those who work in the front line in the first line for the Hungarian people, I think of health workers and social workers, who have not even received a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000, and when they meet the express request of the Medical Chamber that health workers, who have been infected or quarantined, are subject to observation, can receive full, full benefits, without various unjustified procedures, even during quarantine. I would also like to talk about another very, very important matter, because there are, you can say, heartwarming, very serious progress and developments. Yesterday there were local elections in Romania, including Transylvania, and we saw a very joyful news. I think that it is a real historic success that after 20 years he will once again become the Mayor of Hungary. I think... I think that many millions of Hungarians had a heartbeat together yesterday, and we can all say that this is indeed a historic success, a regime against the Hungarians, a corrupt regime has been replaced with a real program, a good team. Therefore, I congratulate Zoltán Soós and his team and wish them good health and endurance for the next period. Of course, we congratulate all Hungarian candidates who have obtained a mandate and office in Transylvania or even a local, county councillor position, who were granted the mandate yesterday, and I wish them good health and perseverance in the next period. However, we also have to talk about, unfortunately, the day after the election, that there were quite unworthy and shameful statements during the campaign. We saw a very, very harsh intervention by the Hungarian government in the Transylvanian campaign, and in this context here last week, on Monday, Árpád Potápi, State Secretary, was a rather outrageous statement. The Secretary of State practically called the Hungarians who dared to run against the DAHR, no matter how much this threatened... [[Noise from the pro-government benches. Invitation on the pro-government side: No, no! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: But you did, don't deny it.]] no matter how much this jeopardized the Hungarian chances of winning. I think that this is unworthy, unparalleled, and I would add that it is unprecedented in relation to the use of the term of Secretary of State Potápi. So we ask that Mr Secretary of State clarify this situation and apologize for his statement. But it is very important that when we talk about the fact that a secretary of state made such an outrageous statement, then let us also talk about the fact that the opposition has also heard rather shameful and contrary to the Hungarian national interests. In a video, Momentum President András Fekete-Győr virtually launched a campaign for Transylvanian Hungarians to support their Romanian sister party, USR PLUS [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Shame, shame!]] give a vote, a party that denies autonomy, a party from which Hungarians in Transylvania cannot expect any support. I think that, in a situation where Hungarian representation really depends on many places, campaigning for a Romanian party is clearly an act against the Hungarian nation. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] Therefore, I think, on behalf of the LMP fraction, we can say very clearly that we consider this to be outrageous, we distance ourselves from it, and we expect András Fekete-Győr to do so. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Apologize!]] Apologize for your actions, indeed. I would like to draw attention to one more thing: the deadline is pressing. The European Commission extended the deadline for the citizens' initiative of the Szekler National Council until 7 November. I ask everyone on the irdala.hu site, who has not done so, to support this initiative and ask all parties to... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. I call on all parties to help international compliance through their international relations, so that we can achieve it at national level. I myself asked a hundred Hungarian mayors in a letter...
u2020-09-28-6	Thank you.
u2020-09-28-7	...that the international relations of their cities...
u2020-09-28-8	Thank you.
u2020-09-28-9	... using their European Union twin cities to connect. Excuse me, Mr. President, and thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[11.20]]
u2020-09-28-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári responds to the statement by the Group leader.
u2020-09-28-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Let me reflect on the two topics you have raised. One is the speed of defense against the coronal virus. Here in Parliament, we voted on the derogation from house rules in relation to the Crown Virus Act of T/9790, about bringing ourselves to a decision-making situation faster or slower. If I look at the list of non-voting representatives, so those who voted to make a slower decision about authorising the government to make a quick decision, I see that the party of slowness was Antal Csárdi, LMP, Krisztina Hohn, LMP, László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, Péter Ungár, LMP. So you're saying here in Parliament that it should be decided quickly about the Crown Virus, but when you could vote on this proposal, you didn't support a derogation from house rules, and the LMP faction didn't support the Crown Virus Act itself, which gave the government the opportunity not to take several weeks of parliamentary procedure, but to make a quick, few-hour decision on important issues related to the protection of the Crown Virus. Honourable Congressman, It would have been nice if you had voted in favour of speed and not slowness. As for the sentences of you and your fellow parties or allies regarding the Crown Virus: Benedek Jávor was LMP and dialogueal, so he was everywhere, who is now a representative of Budapest in Brussels, so he represents the capital city, well, he said it was a relatively inexpensive, harmless epidemic. That's how he tried to reduce the epidemic. Agnes Vadai, let's not forget, this fall he attacked Muller Cecilia that we received all kinds of information about washing hands and all this unnecessary nonsense. In this way, he tried to reduce the many-fold repetition of the very important hygiene rules that could actually protect himself from the epidemic and prevent its rapid spread. Péter Niedermüller, your mayor on the left, told you that the dessert was Covid? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm That's how he joked on Facebook, asking me that question. According to the chairman of the Committee of the Party Foundation for Dialogue, dealing with the crisis is not a national matter; it is not a national matter to deal with the creation of jobs. From the Momentum, Deputy Mayor Kerpel-Fronius, your deputy mayor on the left, is now a very serious misunderstanding that it should be joined together in times of crisis. So it's a misunderstanding that when there's a crisis, you have to move quickly and stick together, and he was able to reveal it. Then their better political partner, Zoltán Szotyori-Lázár:, I continue to believe that the threat of the coronal virus is greatly exaggerated by the media. It's also a false rumor, according to the better politician, that the corona virus is magnified only by the media. We can recall that Agnes Kunhalmi said in a similar way about immigration that only Fidesz created it in the media. Honourable Congressman, It would be nice if you could talk to your own political allies and tell them that the epidemic is important, this is a moment where we need to work together. We can see from your votes that they will not work together, but perhaps this would be a moment when, even to deal with the economic crisis, it would not be bad if, here in Parliament, they could also show that they could step out of the everyday political give-and-takes that have always been achieved here in Parliament. After all, the government has made very important decisions over the past few days either on the use of the mask or on the rules of distance and other rules, which it would be good if we could do according to the broadest possible consensus and not every day of the opposition to attack the government's current measures. Which means preparing and taking advantage of time: we used the summer, honourable Member, that instead of the 1.6 million masks in the spring, there are 100 million masks in the warehouses, instead of 20 million pairs of rubber gloves in the spring, 95 million pairs of rubber gloves in the warehouses, instead of the 2560 respirators at that time, there are well over 10,000 respirators in the warehouses. In fact, last week with Secretary of State Menczer and Minister Szijjártó, we were at the Vác plant when the thousand respirators were made in Hungary, and we are proud that Hungary can be self-sufficient now, and thanks to the work of Hungarian people they can also manufacture and make high-quality Hungarian machines. So much for the fact that it would be good for the opposition to take the virus situation seriously and move beyond its own shadow, although even the shadow of LMP resembles Ferenc Gyurcsány. As far as the Transylvanian elections are concerned, of course we congratulate candidates from across the border. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]]
u2020-09-28-12	Thank you very much.
u2020-09-28-13	I'm asking you not to put words in Mr. Potápi's mouth that he didn't say. Where the Hungarian majority is very small, unity and not starting against each other are really important, but we congratulate everyone who has won. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled "The People's Election on the Free Virus Test." You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Rétvár State Secretary here accused the opposition's representatives of tying the virus away. Every day, when you were here in Parliament in the spring, you bludgeoned it because you refused to wear a mask and set an example for the residents. So when we talk about who deceived the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, it was you, honourable Secretary of State, because you and your fellow Members refused to buy masks out of machoness. When travelling abroad, the mask was only worn when they were at an international meeting where the partner had a mask. You traveled all over the world without wearing a mask. Then who set the wrong example, my fellow Member, Secretary of State? It was you. Annex VII is amended as follows: There was a resident in the district at a general doctor who told me what his symptoms were, and he thinks he needs a test. The GP, given the fact that he couldn't really tell this patient that he met with a coronal virus, said he didn't see the need to get tested on it. He left, took the test out of his own pocket, and it turned out to be viral. School principals complain that in their hearts teachers should be tested in several cases, because they were in contact with children that would make the safety of children and families safe if this test were to take place. You are virtually refusing to do so, refusing to set up a normal system in a clear way, so that if a school principal, a teacher, feels that he needs a test, he can do so. These tests are not for the benefit of one person, but for the benefit of the families of all the people here. They're not doing the test for self-interest, but every test is in the interest of the community, which is how the virus can be prevented from spreading. We know and understand that people don't want the same closure as they did in the spring, but one of the most important weapons against not having closure is that if there is mass and free testing. I honestly don't understand why you're afraid of mass testing at this level. Your foolish and irresponsible revelations in the meantime are practically only increasing the impact of the epidemic. Schools and classes close in many parts of the country, teachers are terrified and complain. Hospitals don't have enough doctors and nurses, and the more and more stress, the more and more patients are being treated, and you're sending patients all over again. If anyone mentions that there's not enough staff for the ventilator, the Prime Minister will drown the word. If you go to test, according to the official price, you will have to pay nearly one month's minimum pension, 20 thousand forints, despite the fact that you have already paid the price by paying the social security. According to the Democratic Coalition, the epidemic will be more severe in the coming weeks and months. We should at least help people to test them for free. If in times of crisis there is money for hunting exhibitions, for the Olympic centre, for the promotion of football academies, then there must also be a lifesaving test, Mr. Secretary of State, honourable Members of Fidesz. DK is launching a referendum for a free virus test. The initiative, which we have already submitted to the National Election Office, is in the interest of all Hungarians. The government excuses itself and rejects the referendum by saying that whoever is justified will be subjected to the test. That, Mr. Secretary of State, is purely a lie. It happens, as I said, that general doctors talk people out of tests, but if they do, they have to wait days, and we see a number of examples that the quarantine paper arrives when the time is practically over, so the procedures have not even been put together. [[11.30]] With whom the patient is in contact, family members, colleagues, it is usually not tested if they are asymptomatic, even though they are potentially at risk. What you're doing with the 20,000 forint test, usually with the failure to test, is the financial evisceration of people, moral and medical disregard. We understand that there are many forints of 20,000, so they are not being tested or dissuaded from testing, and then they do not even know that they are sick and can play with statistics, but the health and healing of Hungarian people is more important than anything else, which is why there must be a referendum on the free virus test. But, Mr. Secretary of State, you can persuade your government to show that you, too, consider this matter important and make tomorrow's decision that every virus test is free. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Thank you.
u2020-09-28-16	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2020-09-28-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start with two points. They're attacking the doctors again, and now they're attacking a doctor in particular. I'm asking you not to. Secondly, if we approach the whole thing from the financial burden, I cannot help but think that if you were still in government, we would have paid health care in Hungary today. This means that anyone who wants to get tested or anyone who gets treatment at the hospital for a coronal virus or any other disease should pay for it. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] Come on. That would be evisceration. We have to regret that, in this speech, we are confirmed that there is still no brakes on the fake news channel of the Gyurcsány Party. They still refuse to cooperate; they refuse to participate in the fight against the epidemic and spread rumors. They do not strengthen, but weaken, the fight against the epidemic. Now, as far as their referendum initiative is concerned, it is a conscious attempt to mislead; it is closely linked to Klára Dobrev's earlier statement that eight out of ten tests are to be paid in Hungary. That's a lie! Clearly, what you're saying is not true. The vast majority of nearly 700,000 tests were free. If the test is requested by the authorities, the hospitals or the general practitioner, then there is no need to pay for it. By the way, when testing, we go on the basis of the World Health Organisation protocol, and so do the vast majority of European countries. He also stated to Klára Dobrev that they switched to mass and free testing everywhere, and that you did not speak in this direction either! In most places, like us, people who are symptomatic are tested. Those who choose to be tested should be paid in most countries. I would add that in most countries there is no official price, which means they do not stop profiteering. And we've had an official price for a while now. I would also like to say that from 21 September to 14 days, the duration of the official house quarantine has been reduced. The reason for this is that we already know more about the incubation period of the virus, and that is why this decision has already been made in other countries. Contact research is being continued by the authorities, but this is becoming more and more difficult and diverse because the virus is spreading in the community, anyone can catch it. That's why it's important that everyone, all of us, abide by the rules. Now, with regard to statistics, if I approach the effectiveness of defence in a different direction: the number of deaths per 100,000 people shows that Hungary is still among the effective defence countries. Seven people died in Hungary per 100,000 people, 59 in Sweden, 88 in Belgium, the richer in Romania, to mention a state in the region, more than three times as many in proportion. We want effective protection for all countries, however, these numbers provide a good basis for assessing the effectiveness of Hungarian defence. And when you get these results taken away, you're debating the work of health professionals, ignoring their efforts. We're asking you not to. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] They don't need the left's political arrows right now, they need support, and if they don't, they're gonna get it from the government. All in all, we would only have one request that we might summarize in such a way as not to confuse the current situation with the Balatonősöd faction meeting. Even there and at that time, you couldn't lie without consequences, and in this situation, you can't lie even less. First of all, it is not because lying now has consequences not only for you but also for the whole country. So it's not too late to shut down the false and false news generator, and I wish you a lot of strength. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-18	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Member Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP: [[For signal:]] And thank you, Mr Lajos Oláh, for the warning.
u2020-09-28-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, First of all, let me congratulate myself and on behalf of the MSZP on the fact that, after 20 years, Hungarians are leading the city again. It's a great thing. We wish you a very good job. But let's get back to home, get back to home. At the end of August 2020, Ilona Pálffy, the head of the NVI, announced that she would retire. For a moment, it seemed that the Fidesz-KDNP government wanted to decide its successor by consensus. At the beginning of September, opposition parties were called for consultation, but there was no result. The government insisted, however, that an independent institution should have its own exclusive candidate appointed, indicating that it had its own scenario on the ground. After all, Viktor Orbán referred the appointment of Dr. Attila Nagy, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, János Áder, who, as usual, automatically made his decision without questioning the democratic functioning of the State Organisation. So we've witnessed a special act. For a moment, the government did not think seriously that, in order to restore public confidence in the elections, it would choose its candidate on the basis of a consensus, on the basis of a proposal from the opposition, by means of a technical tender. This would have been a great need, since it is well known that the majority of the members of the National Election Committee are close to Fidesz, so there are regular and justified doubts about their impartial functioning. Of course, the electoral system and the way in which the elections are held are also well-founded in questioning their fair character. The disproportionate election system, which was essentially written on Fidesz, allowed opposition parties to have 56.45 percent support in 2014 and 52.64 percent in 2018, but Fidesz-KDNP was able to obtain a two-thirds majority on both occasions. On both occasions, therefore, the majority voted against the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance, and therefore it is misleading to constantly argue that they have huge social support. In assessing the elections in 2018, the OSCE took the view that the conditions of competition were not equal. The Fidesz-KDNP enjoyed a huge media overload, and the government campaigned for information to the government parties; the difference between the financial resources of the governing parties and the opposition was enormous, almost insurmountable. In addition, members of the electoral committee and voting counting committee provided information on various abuses, particularly in the case of elderly homes and mobile ballots. They also provided information on the purchase of votes and the illicit movement of voters. These developments are not accidental. The Fidesz-KDNP Alliance wishes to conduct free elections in Hungary in such a way that it wants to prevent the political transition economy from taking place, thereby ensuring the inseparability of Fidesz. For them, the principle is that they do not want to leave the fate of Hungary, i.e. the nation, to the chance of the elections; they regard themselves as the exclusive representation of national interests and the opposition as a mere filling, and they regard it as a necessary evil because of membership of the European Union. Of course, this is completely contrary to the principles of democracy, one of which would be a crucial element of political opponents recognising each other as mutual partners in a democracy. So, since we know that the governors today do not shy away from any means to achieve an election result, I think it is important to point out that, under these circumstances, it is crucial that the Republican forces are already preparing to ensure the purity of the 2022 parliamentary elections. [[11.40]] We know that in the polling districts in which the Republican forces did not have a delegation in 2018, Fidesz achieved a better result than the average one than where he was a voting district delegate to the opposition. Nor is it a coincidence that, even at the last minute in 2018, Orbán spoke of moral, political and legal satisfaction after the elections, which led to the withdrawal of a significant number of opposition electoral delegates. Orbán called the Fidesz-KDNP voters' attention to the fact that they cannot sit back, because the opposition cooperation is certainly a real threat to them. Then I'm going to turn to the Republican voters from here, from Parliament, to make them ready, and they can't lose their focus, because although there will be a real cooperation and a cooperation that hasn't been done in the last ten years. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but this alone is not enough to ensure the cleanliness of elections. From this day forward, [[The president's ringing again.]] The MSZP awaits the application of every Democrat who, as a democracy guard, wants to protect the purity of the 2022 elections. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-09-28-20	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2020-09-28-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Excuse me, Congresswoman Kunhalmi, your fellow parties have put you in an extremely awkward position, as you obviously had to read a five-minute performance on a subject on which you do not have any information. At the hearing you referred to in your speech, or at least in your notes that there was one, you did not attend, but only your party partner participated. But I was involved, so I know exactly what was said and what was going on at that trial. Congresswoman, the situation is that there are laws. The legislation sets out how a candidate can be nominated for a particular position and how it will be held. This was not invented by the Orbán government, but since we have taken the rule of law and democracy seriously, it has been so for 30 years. This was also the case under the former socialist-free democrat governments. So there's no surprises in this. These laws say that this is no different in relation to the election of the President of the National Election Office than in other countries, nor is it different from the previous Hungarian traditions that the President of the Republic appoints the head of the National Election Office for the nomination of the Prime Minister. And then from here on out, the question is what the Prime Minister should do, what the government should do. Parliamentary traditions are divided, because there was a public dignity in relation to another position in Hungary after the change of regime, who said that if the law once gave him the right to be nominated, he alone decides how he wants to exercise that right. [[For signal:]] László Sólyom, for example, helped me, Mr. State Secretary, give me an example, but there were also other public-law dignitaries who were closer to the left, who was embarrassingly concerned with this autonomy and this division of tasks and powers. Compared to this, we started in a different direction, and we always wanted to have the greatest possible unity on these national issues of fate, on these important issues, at least not up to us and the consultation should not depend on us not being able to create the conditions for unity. It was also the same in the spring with regard to the control of the coronal virus epidemic. There were meetings there, too. There, too, it was very clear what the position of the government was. We wanted to ask you not to vote for the defense, but to support the defense. They didn't do that. I had these discussions where I was sitting, where I took an empty paper, and I set out the goal that if the opposition parties were able to name one candidate, or to define only one professional condition that would make sense in the context of who the new president of the National Election Office would be, I would write this down on the paper, forward it, and obviously make it a matter of consideration by the government. I would like to inform the Congresswoman that, in addition to the great unity and the great unity and the great decision together, the Democratic Coalition, your allies, did not come, so there was no unity between the left-wing parties. Congresswoman pretends that the two parties have nothing to do with each other and then talks about the fact that they will be on a common list in 2022; that is certainly not the case. So, on the one hand, they didn't come to this meeting in part, and on the other hand, unfortunately, I had to stand up with the paper left blank, not because I didn't write anything down, but because they couldn't make one sound proposal. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I was talking about the proposal!]] They couldn't make one sound suggestion. So we have once again seen from the left that they are unable to reach a compromise in any way, in any way, to cooperate on any national issue. The other is that you must not be angry, Congresswoman, that you are campaigning on the one hand, on the other hand, by winning the election, the rule of law doesn't matter, and democracy doesn't matter, they make everyone runaway, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said, and then half a minute later he says that there can't be a left-wing victory in Hungary according to the Hungarian electoral system, one of the two statements can't be true again. Once again, you are not telling the truth, you are only twisting the facts according to your political, powerful intentions and discrediting the country as a successor party to the State Party at international level. It's a shame and a shame, stop it! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the next agenda, Mr György Szilágyi, Mr Jobbikós, will address his speech before the agenda with the title 'Party of Funny People'.
u2020-09-28-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On October 11th, there will be a very important interim election in Borsod, two thirds of you will depend on it, and you know it. Unfortunately, they are also conducting a rough campaign in Borsod, as we are used to doing everywhere else, but now they are taking a new level, not only are they insulting László Bíró, the opposition's candidate, but they are insulting the voters with subpar and harsh words, and they are even laughing at them. Recently, the video of Zsófia Koncz, your candidate's brother, making non-suffering words on the phone to the voter, and those around him, instead of ordering the young man, laughs at the bloody voter. And when they're called to account, they're not apologizing, they're apologizing for making jokes. After that, it is even clearer what Zsófia Koncz and his circle think of the voters; for them, the people of Borsodi are worth as much as they are respected: nothing. Zsófia Koncz could have said that he was sorry for his brother's conduct, or at least he could have indicated that he disagreed with him, but he did not. Instead of apologizing for the unworthy sentences, he just said his brother was joking. Do you understand? He was joking. Well, speaking of jokes, it also seemed pretty funny when you started Zsófia Koncz in this election, as Zsófia Koncz of Washington probably knew what his problems were, in Washington he felt what the problem was in Borsod, what life was like in Borsod; the solution to the problems of the Borsodies is most likely to be handled by such superiorness and contempt. But you are such funny people, because I think you remember János Pócs, who put a gypsy man in the boiler and threatened to burn him, and instead of apologizing to this man, he would have apologized to the voters, said János Pócs, that he was joking. As I'm sure József Balogh was joking, he was also your former fellow Member, who, when he beat up the woman, said that, well, it was only through the blind comondo. Because you're funny people. He must have been joking, having fun, and they thought it was funny when, let's say, Roland Mengyi, who has been in prison since then, György Simonka or István Happy had reached out to public funds and stole these public funds. But I'm sure they think you're a great prankster, Mr. Florian Farkas, who took 1.6 billion forints from the people in need, and that should have been spent on the gypsy catch-up. [[11.50]] Because Flória Farkas is such a funny man, he's sitting right behind you in the benches, even though he skied 1.6 billion. And then, I suppose, as a joke, you're taking the floor from the president of Jobbik, who has the largest opposition group, because he says he's a comrade. Because that's why we have to stop talking, even though people in the Institute of Social Sciences of the MSZP called each other comrades, so they didn't quit. Or I suppose it's meant to be a joke when Árpád Potápi's sentences said last week are denied here by Bence Rétvári, but Árpád Potápi did, he said that László Tőkés is a national traitor, and here he is being denied. He said those sentences a week ago. I believe, fellow Members, that there are no two Fidesz. No two Fidesz, that's the real face of Fidesz! What you can see in this video is arrogance, indifference and contempt. Hungarian people don't deserve this. People don't ask for the government's dirty insults, their arrogance, they're tired of being ignored, their contempt, and they're even sick of lying and stealing. Looking down and betraying voters is unforgivable in politics. I wish for this country and Jobbik in this country to freeze the smile on your face for the first time on October 11, when they lose two thirds, because the people of Borsodi will avenge their contempt, and then the smile will freeze on your face in 2022 when they lose their power. And we wish the Hungarian people to sit at home with a satisfied smile on their faces, and not you, fidesz representatives of luxury houses, luxury hunting castles, luxury estates, luxury hotels and luxury airplanes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Finally, people should smile in this country and not you. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-24	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-09-28-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I understand you'd like to debate the use of a non-election teenager or twenty-year-old here in Parliament. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'd like to say that it would be weird if we took style lessons from the former Guardian Jobbik here, especially after they're starting a candidate in Szerencs who is judapesting and lice sliders, and I'm not talking about family members, I'm talking about friends, I'm talking about the candidate himself. We can say something worse than being a teenager, which, by the way, is worth talking about here in this House. Each week, we listen to their dramatic speeches, with demands and outrages. Apparently, they are concerned about people's livelihood and demand immediate action. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Yes, but when better politicians have the opportunity to act, they prove much, but not social sensitivity. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: When were you in an eviction?]] 'Cause let's take a look... You don't need to shout, Your Honour. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's worth checking out what candidate you're running for Lucky when you bring it up. An aggressive man, who, like you, demands a decent living in the campaign, just didn't want to give it to the people he worked with before. In the past, he led a social cooperative, which received 50 million HUF for job creation, but instead of raising it, the company fell for it, and no more seamstress was paid, and they could run for their money. When we raised this matter here in the House last week, Peter James spoke of all kinds of seamsmen with noble simplicity. All kinds of seamstress, this contempt, honourable right-wing congressmen. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Weak argument!]] The people you call all kinds of seamstress, they're people from Borsodi who want nothing but to get the money they haven't been paid for and the money they've worked for. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] People who are referred to in their speeches in front of the mirror for days, but if we uncover them, they will be left on the side of the road. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You say it yourself?!]] If you'd like to refer to decent wages, decent living, maybe pay the seams first, please. Each day, when they fail to do so, they continue to build a statue of better hypocrisy. And there's one more thing that tells us about your lucky candidate's integrity level. We know that he made rock-hard anti-Semitic comments, and when asked about one, he suggested that another László Bíró might have made these statements while his picture was watching. The brains will stop! On that basis, they could have said that another James Peter made a pact with another Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Don't look so much like a bird to the electorate. So, honourable Member, all in all, we see how easy it is for you to walk on the path of lies, how easily you can make an uncontroversial deal, for example, with those who have closed the Szerencsi Sugar Factory, and we can also see how easily you turn your back on those who live from the work of your two hands. Once you do that, you'll do it a hundred times. It is worth knowing that to all people in Borsodi when he elects a new representative on 11 October. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-26	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. The next speaker before the agenda is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, on current affairs.
u2020-09-28-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to congratulate the mayors elected at yesterday's interim mayor elections. Mohács, where the voters also gave an opinion on the left-wing cooperation and chose development, the future, security and partnership instead; this was in an election where Péter Puch campaigned for László Jakab's family. We congratulate you on this, but we would rather congratulate Gábor Pávkovics, the elected mayor of Mohács. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] The electorate decided on a scratch, and the left-wing candidate didn't get 10 percent. Congratulations to Tibor Spiši. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. ) Fidesz-KDNP won in Gánt, we also congratulate János Krausz. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties.) In Romania, and so in Transylvania, municipal elections were held yesterday. Although national unity has already been outlined in the last ten years on the issue of support for Hungarians across the border, two parties have withdrawn from it and are even working against Hungarians. DK and Momentum, although they want to distinguish themselves from each other, are very similar. András Fekete-Győr is not the first time campaigning against Hungarians and standing behind a Romanian party. This is shameful and goes against Hungarian interests. The parliamentary framework does not allow me to describe the behaviour of the Momentum with the words it deserves. Well, who do they represent? ! Nevertheless, very nice and reassuring Hungarian results were achieved in Transylvania. After 20 years, he became the Hungarian mayor of Marosvásárhely again, and four Hungarian county council presidents were able to hold Szatmárnémeti and the Hungarian representation in Székelyföld also stood on stable feet. Congratulations to all elected Hungarian mayors, county presidents and councillors. Of course, they can all count on Fidesz-KDNP. On 11 October, there will be an interim parliamentary election in and around Szerencs, here we see the anti-Semitic, anti-Gypsy candidate, Gergely Karácsony, Timea Szabó, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Ágnes Kunhalmi and, of course, the entire left. For them, it is now acceptable to judapest or even to the threat of workers. After all, the most influential situation in our lives is now the second wave of epidemics, health and economic protection. We can remember that, although we managed successfully to deal with the first wave of the plague, we managed to get through it together, but the left side pulled itself out of the defense, couldn't be counted on, and then tried to stop the defense. Kamuvideos, the attack of defense specialists in their personal and faith, and so on. Now, during the second wave of the plague, they continue where they left off in June. This time creating and spreading false news is one of their main activities. At the end of last week, Klara Dobrev launched three false rumors about the epidemic and the government's actions. The MEP lied when he said people pay eight out of ten tests. The vast majority of the 700,000 screenings performed so far were free of charge. Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife didn't tell the truth either that the whole world had switched to mass testing, nor that the state would help in Hungary if someone got into trouble because of the crisis. Again, false news, to put it more clearly: lies. Neither were the reports that the fans had not measured their body temperature before the Super Cup final on Thursday. First, Népszava announced the false news, and then, of course, the entire left took over. The Democratic Coalition also organised a separate press conference, but Jobbik and Szabó Timea also shared the false news that the Korány Institute and the South-Pest Center Hospital do not have enough equipment and free breathing aid. Of course there is, this has been confirmed by the hospitals involved and the Ministry, so the opposite is false news, to put it more clearly: it is a lie. Do we not remember the left's opinion of petty political interest? In March they said there weren't enough ventilators, in June they said there were too many ventilators, in September they returned to the fact that there weren't enough ventilators. [[12.00]] In the same way, there have been so many false rumors about school start, number of employees, state of health, EU agreements or the rule of law. This became the primary political activity on the left, the recipe is always the same: they figure out the lie, somewhere they write it, then they go around on the social side of the left politicians, the more enthusiastic even call a press conference, and then they go on through the international relationship system, slandering their country. We had hoped that, with the second wave coming, the behaviour of the left would change, but that is not what we see. From this, it can be concluded that the left is still not to be expected to be protected from the virus. It is therefore very important that Fidesz and KDNP continue to provide the government with all the support to keep the country operational while protecting human lives, as the results of the national consultation expect us to: Hungary must work. Together, we have defeated the first wave, and together we will succeed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-09-28-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I, too, congratulate all Hungarian local leaders from across and beyond the border, local government officials whom the Member has mentioned. The Hungarian opposition has two decisive political powers: the Gyurcsány Party, which will sooner or later subdue and subdue Momentum, but these two are, to say, left-wing forces that give intellectual ammunition, which are able to take action and campaign against Hungarians across the border in the most clear and hairy way. The fact that András Fekete-Győr was able, even in the last weekend, to run for Hungarian parties, to campaign for non-Hungarian parties, to publish on Facebook a post and video so that Hungarians from across borders should not vote for the Hungarian representativeship, but to vote for a party following liberal ideas, which imagines the future of Europe in globalist, rainbow ideology, and not to vote for their own national representation is amazing and incomprehensible. But it is also incomprehensible that this is not the first case, but it is in the Highlands, Transylvania several times, in a backward way, when there is an election, the Momentum is always campaigning for the majority national party there, trying to take the Hungarian votes away from the Hungarian parties and try to pass them on to the majority parties there. The other leading force of the left is the Gyurcsány Party, whose representatives here in Parliament when it came to the right to vote across the border, the establishment of a public-law unit in relation to the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, there were those who said no to this at the same time. On 5 December 2004 they also campaigned against Hungarians across the border, and then on the opposition side, as left-wing opposition representatives, they voted against the voting rights of Hungarians beyond the border after 2010. So nothing has changed on the part of Momentum and on the part of the Gyurcsány Party: any election can come anywhere, in Transylvania, in Felsővidék, in any successor state in the Carpathian Basin, they always support the forces that run against the Hungarians across the border, and would not allow Hungarians to take a stand in Hungarian public decisions. The congressman has also mentioned many questions about defence. As I said earlier in my speech, Hungary used the summer to better prepare for the second wave, and obviously, if you look at any part of it, organization, protective equipment, production capacities in Hungary, this has happened. On the opposition side, the demand for more tests is repeated every day. Hungary is testing according to the WHO protocol with which all other countries are testing. I do not know if they are dissatisfied with the Hungarian results, how would they feel about Belgium, where the rate of tests is much lower, or Switzerland, where the rate of tests is lower, or the Czech Republic, where the rate of tests is lower, or the Netherlands, where it is lower, or France, where it is lower, or Croatia, Sweden, Spain, where the proportion of tests per confirmed infection is lower than all Hungarian rates. Here Hungary is still trying to comply with the WHO protocol, so that ten tests have been carried out for a certified infection. This recommendation from the WHO for effective protection, this is the number we try to keep, and for everyone with signs of the disease or close contact with a sick person, testing is carried out; therefore, for those where the doctor, the general physician or the epidemiological authority prescribes this. On the contrary, we always see foreign examples of the opposition in this case, which, as has often been revealed, do not exist, and in countries to which reference is made, the number of deceased persons per million is several times the number of Hungarian figures, since in Hungary it is 75 per million inhabitants, which is much smaller than in Germany, where it is 114, but below it is either Canadian 248, half as in Switzerland, fifth as in Ireland or the Netherlands, fifth as in France, eighths as in Italy or Sweden, and nineths as in America, the United Kingdom or Spain. We are more effective at defending ourselves compared to these countries, but the opposition, as it has withdrawn itself from the fight against the virus, is talking nonsense. Today, I have presented to the opposition the statements of the virus reliving or viral reliving [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But one moment it falls into extremes, the next it falls into extremes. [[The president's ringing again.]] The point is, they can't be expected to fight the virus. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2020-09-28-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The civil government, which was founded in Hungary in 2010, found itself in a very difficult situation, as the country's left-wing economically pushed to the edge: we had a loan from the IMF, the general government deficit was skyrocketing, and Brussels suddenly needed to meet the deficit targets. In this situation, too, there have been clear and clear commitments made by the civilian government, which have been implemented over the past ten years. This is obviously a surprise to the left, as there was no shortage of promises at Ferenc Gyurcsány, but they never reached the point of implementation. We promised to reduce public debt and deficits, to give people jobs instead of aid, and to give priority to families. In the last eight years, we have reduced the government deficit to less than three, but 2.5 percent, which the left has not once succeeded. Do you remember the deficit targets above 5, 6 or even 8 percent, which were produced by the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments? We have reduced public debt: 80% of GDP was indebted in 2010, it has now been cut to 67 percent, and if the crisis had not intervened, the debt level would certainly have been below 60 percent by the end of the cycle. The former aid-based left-wing policy has preserved the misery of hundreds of thousands of people. On the other hand, the civilian government created nearly one million new jobs, just as it promised in 2010. The Hungarian families receive the highest support in Europe in terms of economic performance, and this promise has also been fulfilled by the government. However, the corona virus and its economic effects again put families and the country at risk. The past decade has also proved that Hungarian people want to work and want to make a living from work. Our job is to protect most jobs and to create at least as many jobs as the virus destroys. All we can hear from the left is what they did between 2002 and 2010, and for which we paid a cruel price when the crisis arrived: increase aid, take out loans, and repay ourselves. All proposals that would undermine people's faith in themselves and provide the country to speculators. During the governance of the Left, he has made one million people unemployed in the name of crisis management, and he has also insulted young people, families and pensioners. The Left managed the crisis by ending the 13th month pension, reducing the duration of the child, raising the general rate of VAT by 5 percentage points, including the family allowance in taxation, raising the retirement age, reducing sick pay, taking a month's wages from public sector workers, introducing a property tax, and, moreover, invoicing the country with a large IMF loan. Now don't be surprised if neither we nor the people ask for your advice; anyway, but especially when there is trouble. [[12.10]] The government is using all means in crisis management, which is also used in the European Union. The focus is on job creation: with wage support, debt reduction, zero-percent credit and a moratorium on loan repayment, we also help businesses in trouble because of the epidemic. The government recently announced that it will extend the credit moratorium for another six months from 1 January 2021. Families raising children, pensioners, unemployed, public workers and even businesses can take advantage of this opportunity. But if it were on the left, there would not be a credit moratorium either, because they could not vote for the transitional rules that provided for the credit moratorium until the end of the year when the emergency ended. The Hungarian people cannot count on the left led by Gyurcsány, they are only busy with political actions and barriers to defence; they continue where they left off at the first wave: after chamouvides they produce fake news, attack health professionals, health institutions and the economic decisions needed to protect them. The civilian government is doing everything it can to protect jobs, homes and the standard of living of families. For this, Fidesz will continue to provide all the support. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-32	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, will respond.
u2020-09-28-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The past decade has proved to us all that Hungarian people can and want to make a living from work. And the government is doing everything in its power to protect as many jobs as possible during the emergency period and to create as many new jobs as the virus still destroys. To this end, the economic protection action plan you have mentioned has been launched. We came out of the crisis together after 2010, and now we're going to do it together again. Honourable Congressman, Our priority, therefore, is to protect the jobs of Hungarian people and create new jobs, as we have had to face a crisis in recent months that transforms our near future, transforms our way of life so far and is a great threat to the economy. That is why cooperation, decisive action and mutual assistance were needed. The left, in fact, honourable Member, has not been involved in this cooperation, not only with us, but also with the Hungarian people. We can say that we now experience this on a regular basis: the left will never be part of the cooperation; when they steered, they did not join forces with people, they pressed us. At the time of the first wave, Hungarian people and Hungarian families could not count on them, either. For example, there wouldn't be a mortgage moratorium if it were up to them. On the other hand, they tried to destroy cooperation when they spread false news about health care and slandered the country abroad. Honourable Congressman, So you are right to say that the left is uncredited when you talk about protecting jobs and protecting Hungarian families, because, as you described in detail, you have dealt with the crisis with restrictions, you have put additional burdens on the shoulders of people instead of helping them. That's what we've all known since the Bokros package or the 2009 cutbacks. Honourable Congressman, The fact is, there are 14 people in the left-wing party faction who have voted in person to take a month's wages and a month's pensions, paying health care. [[Gergely Harvesto: Have you returned it since then?]] and the VAT increase of 5 percentage points and the introduction of tuition and property tax. Honourable Congressman, I understand it hurts you and you're ashamed of it, but this is the case, this is what happened, you have given your name and your vote to make these decisions. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The last ten years have clearly demonstrated to us that the resilience of the economy that is autonomous and pursues its own economic policy is stronger. The recipe for success is the work-based economy. That's why what I've said before is that during the war with the virus, protecting jobs, restoring jobs and creating new jobs are our guiding thread, creating at least as many jobs as the virus is destroying. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, We help the Hungarian economy with new measures, the economic defence operational tribe constantly monitors the situation of the Hungarian economy and proposes the necessary measures. Our goal is no less than to get the economy on the growth path as soon as possible. For those at risk of a coronal virus epidemic, we are therefore extending the moratorium on repayment by six months, allowing pensioners, the unemployed, families raising children and the public to postpone the repayment of their existing debt. So far, the credit moratorium has helped 1.6 million families and 60,000 businesses. This means that until December, HUF 2000 billion will remain with families and businesses. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-34	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Tamás Sneider, independent; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; László Varju, DK, and Lajos Rig, MP. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:17 p.m., we're gonna start negotiating immediate questions. Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás was entitled to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[György Szilágyi: Mr President, I will wait for Viktor Orbán. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-09-28-35	I'd rather wait for Kasler I mean, Minister Kasler. Thank you very much. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-09-28-36	Thank you very much. Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-09-28-37	Yes, I accept, even though I would address you to the Minister of the Interior. But I'll take it to work. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-28-38	Thank you very much. Then you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-28-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, The internal and external protection of our country is vital in today's world. That's why the state's keeping us safe, so our country's got an army, police, secret services. If everything works out well, these organs are capable of averting the threat. But how can these bodies work in Miskolc, for example? [[12.20]] The question arose because in August, in the framework of a state ceremony, Ervin Demeter, former Secretary of the Secret, spoke about a dream, his dream, and then the future that came true, in which Romanian Securiate would like to remove him from his position and replace him with his own man. For the record, and apologizing for the style, I quote only exactly Demeter Ervin's sentences. Ervin Demeter said, "In my dream, I got it to my head, and the shitty, scumbags came out of it with an allitering expression. At this point, because of the turn on my other side or the buzzing of a mosquito, I don't know exactly, but I woke up. The dream has moved away, but the bad feeling remains. Was it just a bad dream or a premonition of future events? By the way, Demeter had the right feeling, because in order to remove him from his position, he did not have to wait much longer. In essence, on 10 September, a candidate for mayor with Fidesz losing at the former municipal elections was appointed to head the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Government Office, replacing him. So, Fidesz's former secretary of secrets a few days before he was replaced from the head of the county government office, he talked about dreaming about his position as a secretary of the Securitate. It is worth taking Demeter Ervin's statements seriously, on the one hand, because he is an experienced ex-minister, on the other hand, because the Miskolcs have the right to know that the predecessor of the Romanian secret service has entered the local public life and have the right to know how it affects it. The question therefore arises, Minister: could the Romanian secret service in Miskolc be incorporated into Fidesz on the basis of Demeter's speech and his rapid replacement? I look forward to your honest answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-09-28-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It may have worked out well, because since it's a government matter, it's also my responsibility to answer it. Fortunately, Mr Demeter, former Head of Government, did not dream of anything that he did not already know, because we met in person on 17 August, and I told him that on 10 September there would be a change in the position of head of the Government Office. So there is no prophecy in the sentences made after 20 or 20. The rest, however, are indeed part of the dream category, which may be better for public figures not to report in public. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-42	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the congressman for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-09-28-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Then I understand there are two things. On the one hand, you may have been deceived, or you may have been deceived by these services. Or the other one is, but I don't suppose you're the one who should be supposed to be. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But given the fact that he was a minister and certainly had a due diligence, I would rule out that condition. The reason why we should not take this whole matter lightly is because we can all remember that from the town hall of Miskolc, video and microphone devices have just been produced which, by the way, opened up the opportunity to observe outside the assembly for those who are staying there, to record conversations, and these devices were purchased in August 2016 by Ákos Kriza, at the request of the then Fidesz mayor, the appointed government official, Zoltán Alaksai, who knew nothing about this. This transaction, i.e. to observe people there, cost people 3.7 million forints. Question is, the Miskolcs are safe from the alien nation's secret service devices, whatever happens, whether it's armed or otherwise influenced in local public life. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-44	Thank you. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2020-09-28-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Congressman, if you knew the law, you would know exactly that I am in charge of the government offices, but I am not even in charge of the government office, but the Prime Minister. So I think that the wording of these accusations is often unfounded, especially on the part of a party that is part of an alliance where they support Romanian political forces against Hungarian political forces, where, if it is necessary to choose between Hungarian and Romanian in terms of political representation, they support Romanians. You are part of such a political alliance at the moment. So if you have to look for the influence of Securiate and Romanian threats or national security risks somewhere, then do so in your own alliance. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Good luck with that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-46	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "The Hospital in Kiskunhalas." Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás was entitled to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I accept. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Then you have the floor, Congressman Bell.
u2020-09-28-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I go on the subject, let me note, however, about the previous reply by Minister, that I would not be in the position of Viktor Orbán, where you are protecting him. So, ladies and gentlemen, RTL News reported last week with pictures of the conditions in the Kiskunhalas Semmelweis Hospital, and I think that it would be a fool's errand to question that. However, I would like to ask Minister that, in Kiskunhalas, where this is an epidemic hospital, and where, during the spring period, for billions or tens of billions of forints, no one knows, this is something that the government is hiding at the moment, a new epidemic hospital was built on the outskirts of the city, about a few kilometers from this hospital, why patients should be treated in such circumstances. Minister, we've had a signal since then, and there was a patient who went home the next day of his surgery, because for a woman, he said he didn't want to enjoy the circumstances that are at the hospital, so to speak. I would like to ask Minister whether, on the one hand, you and the government know what conditions people in the non-covidos department are in, or are trying to cure, people in this hospital under conditions that are not suitable for healing. If so, what would you like to do to eliminate this immediately? And, Minister, tell me to the whole country, please, if you're building a zero-kilometer, total-empty, non-patient emergency hospital a few kilometers from there, with all the medical supplies that are reported daily as a water station report, as a pride, then why do people have to be kept in the hospital in these circumstances. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-09-28-48	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-09-28-49	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I can only say that I would not be in your place either, when you have allies who support the Romanian of the Romanian interest and of the Hungarian representation. I'm sure that would be very embarrassing. As far as your question is concerned, I can tell you that in 2019 the hospital repainted the rooms of the Epidemic Hospital in the adult infected building in Kiskunhalas, completely independent of the epidemic. What you probably saw on television was the result of a pipe break in the two-storey building recently, so in order to prevent this, two wards' bathrooms had to be broken down, and it was not possible to completely restore it due to the rapidly rising number of patients. By the way, the hospital provides non-new but continuously maintained care facilities in the building. I can tell you there's a management plan. If the number of patients with a coronary virus reaches the number specified in the management plan, the mobile epidemic hospital will be activated. Unfortunately, from the data, it seems that this will happen sooner than you can ask me another immediate question. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-50	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-09-28-51	Minister, your answer is completely unacceptable, precisely because of what you said. You claim that there is a management plan, and until the command plan, I don't know, reaches the sixth point of page eight, people are held in Kiskunhalas hospital under these conditions if it was a pipe break or not? I asked you the other day: where is common sense, Minister? Which floor is it on? Well, if there's a one-mile-a-mile epidemic hospital equipped with everything, empty, then why are Hungarian people hiking after surgery crowded and incompetent conditions? Is it because none of your family are there? Well, think about it, be nice, a little bit. Leave that guidance plan to hell, Minister, and be kind enough to start that hospital and give people decent care at the hospital in Kiskunhalas. Thank you for listening. [[12.30]]
u2020-09-28-52	Thank you, Congressman. You have the chance to rejoin the Minister.
u2020-09-28-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The health management plan is not drawn up by the Ministry or carried out by EMMI, but it is obviously the doctors and medical directors who are involved in this. [[Gergely Arató, Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Not true! That's not true.]] Obviously, in order to open a new hospital, there must be a medical capacity to be transferred from the hospital. Therefore, the rational decision has been made that, as long as some coronal viruses are infected, this should be resolved within the hospital. I also agree that it would be appropriate not to use the two rooms where there are such unworthy conditions, but it is logical that, as long as it is possible to close hermetically and this has happened within the hospital, coronal virus patients from non-coronal viral patients and their number is low, it is not appropriate to maintain a separate medical capacity for this. When this number is higher, of course, the built epidemic hospital will be operational and will function normally. That's a different question, and I'm telling you, I tend to agree with you that under certain circumstances, patients are not to be held, so if such work cannot be completed, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then we'll have to find two other rooms. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-54	Thank you, Minister Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who is flying over the plane, a map of this landscape? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-09-28-55	I'll take it.
u2020-09-28-56	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Gergely Arató.
u2020-09-28-57	Dear House, In recent times, we have been very interested to observe, as it turns out that your foreign minister's colleague is so busy doing important tasks that he does not simply drive a car, he doesn't give it to God, he involves public transport, like ordinary mortals on earth, but sometimes he flies by helicopter even for lunch and wine tasting. We have also seen him sometimes so busy insulting EU partners that he even travels home from work by helicopter, so many commuters probably envy him in the agglomeration. But this kind of high visibility is not only typical of him, but also of the Prime Minister, who, apparently, does not see the Hungarian reality from the window of private machines for soccer matches, because otherwise he would not say that the measures of the Cabinet are making more work today than in January. To quote another classic, the country would still be looking from a height, but the reality near the ground is very different. According to the analysis of the Matolcsy central bank, even you do not consider them to be liberal nests due to the exit of the wage support programme and the spread of the epidemic, the unemployment rate is expected to rise to 5.2-6.3 percent. Other surveys, independent of the government, show that 15 percent of people have lost their jobs, their jobs. We also know that more than half of the unemployed, 170,000 jobseekers no longer receive any financial benefits, and only half of those who receive something receive job search support, and the others receive only social benefits. So what does the government do? Nothing. Even the modest job protection support that has been owed to businesses has been abolished. We have the second wave of epidemics in our necks, which, in addition to health care, threaten our workplaces. When will the government finally get out of the helicopters and planes? When are you going to deal with the country's real problems? When are you going to do something about unemployment? [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2020-09-28-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-09-28-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! Your question can be answered quite simply if someone considers the statistics of the KSH to be credible, and so far the KSH has been one of the few institutions you have had so far, perhaps because there is a strict EU control over the statistical methodology, the data of which we have argued and you have argued, and so far everyone has accepted them. The crisis may have changed this in addition to many other things, and you already do not accept the EU-controlled KSH data, but if this has not changed, I suggest that you look at the latest employment KSH data, and you will see that the August data, according to the August employment number, there are more than 4 million 50,000 working in Hungary today. Indeed, this figure shows that tens of thousands of people work more than before the economic situation caused by the Crown Virus crisis in January this year. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true! You're counting the student workers and the public workers.]] So what we can say is that the country's labour market has survived the first wave of the epidemic with countless difficulties and many sectors, partly with part-time work, but in relatively good condition, and, at the moment, it seems that the second wave that has started now is also alive. However, the government has contributed to more than one million jobs with targeted support. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, since you are a member of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, it means that in a period of global economic crisis, during a period of global economic crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic, there are about 900 thousand more people in Hungary than under your governance. To do this, Mr. Congressman, you must measure the standard that you want us to take into account. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-60	Thank you very much, Minister Gulyás. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Arato.
u2020-09-28-61	The government's inertia is always a sure sign when they answer the question, not the question. They point backwards. It's time to face your own responsibility. The problem, Minister, is that your helicopter Christian democracy doesn't show ordinary people, their problems, families that are in an impossible social situation because they lose their jobs. You can cover with statistics, but the thing is, Minister, I'm sorry, I almost offended you that it's worth reading the content of the statistics. That this includes, for example, part-time employees, while the number of full-time employees is decreasing, that this includes those to whom you are offering a public-service programme; the fact is that you have not faced a crisis threatening the economy or unemployment. They're preparing for the second wave in the Czech Republic. The wage support scheme has just been extended. However, you only have a World Hunting Exhibition, faith support [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And stadium construction. This is your economic defense! [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2020-09-28-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2020-09-28-63	Honourable Congressman, If within DK you are likely to present a common, popular and popular party propaganda here in Parliament, it is better not to find a partner or ask for a reply, because what you said did not contradict what I said in any way. So the fact is that the number of public workers can also be followed, and we know that the number of public workers has increased by some 10,000, or even by less, but even at the worst moment by some 10,000. Thus, this difference in the number of employees of 900 000 between the period of the Gyurcsány government and the current crisis period is certainly not justified; and although part-time work has indeed increased, there is also a difference of magnitude compared to the difference that exists today in the labour market compared to the last decade. The government has taken effective and targeted measures. Our position in principle continues to be that as many jobs are lost because of the crisis, we will recreate so much, and the results so far show that the government has promised [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He can do enough. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-64	Thank you very much, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás was entitled to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-09-28-65	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-09-28-66	Yes, thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. Why is the government more important to the interests of the multinationals than the future of the Hungarian people? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Menczer has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask the congresswoman, if she accepts the person who is responding, or if she asks the Minister for the answer in person. [[12.40]]
u2020-09-28-67	Thank you, Mr. President. In the hope that I may receive a substantive reply from the Secretary of State, I accept his identity. Thank you.
u2020-09-28-68	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-09-28-69	Thank you. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. With your completely flawed economic policy, Hungary has been completely exposed to multinational capital over the last ten years. In fact, this policy is based on two pillars: the exclusivity of the automotive industry and the conscious low maintenance of the wages of Hungarian workers. As an illustration, it is so important for you to serve multinational capital at all costs that, for example, in the last ten years, the Audi has delivered to NER 1,800 billion dividends from the country, and the owners have obtained so much money. So your policy is only about supporting the owners of multinational companies with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Today, the Hungarian economy is characterised by a marked imbalance, and government subsidies are clearly directed towards multinational capital and NER bigwigs, while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have only to settle for propaganda. You didn't just abandon the Hungarian workers, you betrayed them. There is nothing expensive for you to gain the goodwill of the multinational capital, and in doing so, it does not matter that workers' poverty has unfortunately become permanent in Hungary. Here is another idea, and I would like to draw your attention to this, because a recent government decision is about transforming the system of training grants from the basic training part of the National Employment Fund into an investment promotion training aid scheme. I'll translate this quickly, because it's a very cuckoo thing. Translating: the VET system is being redesigned in such a way that it is essentially put into a cheap labour emission mode, so they train Hungarian people for the multinationals. Of course, the government decision talks about high added value jobs, but since when are assembly plants considered high value-added jobs? It's more like the usual cash-pop operation. Therefore, I ask Mr State Secretary: why do you want to put the Hungarian vocational training system fully into the service of multinational capital? Thank you.
u2020-09-28-70	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2020-09-28-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Although I didn't want to start with this speech, but you closed it with something that struck my ears, I would ask you not to look down on the workers. Whether you work in a car factory or elsewhere, regardless of what kind of work you do, don't look down on them, don't talk about them in ways that aren't right. Employees and everyone who does work must be valued and respected, whether this is any type of work. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] With regard to the rest of your speech, I am obliged to think, Madam honourable Member, that you have recently spent too much time near Ferenc Gyurcsány, because with such a heat, Hungarian jobs were last destroyed by Ferenc Gyurcsány before 2010, as you would like to do now. You wanted to talk about employees. I'd like to draw some facts to your attention. I do not want to confuse you with facts, but I do suggest to your attention that in 2010, unemployment was 11.5-12 percent, many Hungarians and Hungarian families were not sure about their income, they had no sure vision, and your political allies made it even worse with a foreign exchange loan trap, a state bust, and a month's wage and a month's pension. Now, before the virus, there was 3.3 percent unemployment in Hungary, i.e. whoever wanted to work could work, and as Minister Gulyás referred to it, there were 900 thousand people working and working in Hungary now, more than under and at the end of your allies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have made 538 investments in the country since 2014, with 92 000 jobs created thanks to these investments. And if you asked the Hungarian companies, last year there were 101 projects in total, the Hungarian companies were in fourth place, if you look at the number of projects, and even if you look at the size of the projects, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Hungary, the Hungarian companies were in fourth place. And I would also like to draw your attention to [[The President shall re-notify the expiry of the time.]] that we currently have 86 strategic partners, 70 percent of the Hungarian supplier ratio. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congresswoman.
u2020-09-28-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I suspected that Mr. Secretary of State would talk nonsense because he refused to answer the question. It is very uncomfortable for you that you have promised the Hungarian people that you will protect them, and instead you will serve multinational companies so much that they will basically train people with public money, and they will be pushed to the labour market with the EU's weakest labour code by specifically pushing these people to these multinational companies. Basically, the Hungarian people pay from their low wages that the owners of large multi-company companies acquire an amazing extra profit, which the owners take out of Hungary. What proves this, however, is that I have received a reply from NAV, which clearly shows that in recent years, one year and the next year half as much tax has been paid by companies with turnover exceeding EUR 750 million as in previous years. So again, the missing tax is paid by Hungarian taxpayers [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's how national you are.
u2020-09-28-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The corona virus epidemic has also attacked the economy, and the congresswoman has talked about jobs and job opportunities, and Hungary must work, and people have clearly stated this and the government is acting accordingly. I would like to inform the honourable Member that, at this time of crisis, so-called competitiveness-enhancing support has been requested by 904 companies through the external institution system, allowing more than 150,000 Hungarian jobs to be preserved. If you look at the volume of investment or the amount of aid granted, anyway, the proportion of Hungarian-owned companies is above 75%. I'd like to draw your attention to something else. If you don't think I'm credible, András Schiffer, former head of the LMP, said: "With regard to Jobbik, MSZP and LMP, it would be best to stop working tomorrow. This would save the Hungarian voters a lot of tax forints, and this trio is nothing more than the existence of the people there, it is a petty, concrete personal survival. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I am a believer in multi-party democracy, but I recommend the sentences of the former leader for consideration. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from opposition lines.]]
u2020-09-28-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás was entitled to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-09-28-77	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-09-28-78	Thank you very much. Congressman Burány has the floor.
u2020-09-28-79	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, We have been talking for many months about the various effects of the epidemic and we are debating it here in Parliament, and that is right, because nothing can be more important now. In my speech today, I would like to focus on the economic aspect of the epidemic. The Orbán government has been proud for months that the Hungarian economy is one of the strongest in Europe, it is a real fairy tale and a Hungarian economic miracle. Compared to this, even the pessimistic analysts received the second quarter data of the Hungarian economy as a cold shower. From this it was clear that the Hungarian economy dropped by more than 14 percent compared to the previous year. It has not produced such a severe decline in any quarter, even during the 2008-2009 global economic crisis, and this is one of Europe's worst figures, and there is hardly a country in the EU that would have suffered a greater economic downturn. At the same time, but not by accident, if you look at how the exchange rate of the forint has developed during the same period, you will see that the forint is the most vulnerable and the weakest currency in the region. Compared to the euro, no other currency in the region has lost as much of its value as the Hungarian forint. If we look at prices in the meantime, because the Hungarian National Bank and György Matolcsy say that the Hungarian National Bank does not have an exchange rate target, but that inflation is the most important goal, and then we see that Hungarian inflation figures are Europe's worst inflation figures. To sum up, the forint is on a ventilator, the economy is in deep flight, but the prices are skyrocketing. I ask the Minister how the government has some sort of recovery policy. Thank you very much. [[12.50]]
u2020-09-28-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Burány. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-09-28-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, the alleged claim that the coronal virus epidemic was not good or particularly bad for the Hungarian economy is out of the question, as is perhaps the fact that, at the beginning of this crisis, the unemployment rate of 12 per cent fell to 3.3 per cent in 2010 and we created some 900 thousand new jobs in employment data. And just as we have been able to discuss this here more or less with other opposition representatives, we can keep this figure in the middle of the epidemic. As far as macroeconomic data are concerned, I can say that no matter how negative the quarterly number you quoted is thirteen and a few tenths of the decline in the economy in the second quarter, it is below the EU average, it is still better than the EU average, and it is much better for the first semester as a whole, so the 6 or 6.1 percent recession is better. The fact is that this year, if we look at the European economies, I think Hungary will be doing well by the end of the year, in the first trimester, but after the crisis of the Crown Virus has caused recession everywhere in the world, so we are happy to keep jobs in this area so far, and we are glad that the increase in public debt and the scale of the economic recession will be among the better in the European Union. We have a good chance of both. To make the claim that the Hungarian economy is not seriously and negatively affected by what has happened is perhaps irresponsible. We can say one thing: compared to the European average, even the second quarter, which was worse than expected, was better than the European average, and this will be more or more true throughout the year. Employment figures and unemployment figures are among the best in Europe today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-82	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2020-09-28-83	Just to argue in one language: I was talking about the data that the decline in the second quarter compared to the first quarter is more than 14 percent, and only three countries have produced worse: Croatia, Spain and the United Kingdom, so there is no mention that we are better than the EU average in this respect. But speaking of employment, the number of people who are looking for a job in Hungary today has increased by more than 400 thousand because of the epidemic. If you look at it at the same time, it's OSH What the Hungarian government did during the same period, we can see that, contrary to European practice, only 5 percent of domestic workers were protected by the Hungarian government, the same percentage in Germany is more than 20 percent, and in neighbouring Austria it is more than 30 percent. So, while the economy produced the worst data in the second quarter, it produced one of the worst data in Europe. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the meantime, you barely spent any money on OSH. Thank you very much. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2020-09-28-84	Thank you very much. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2020-09-28-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Since I was forced to rely on my memory, I only wanted to offer you a coffee bet, but after the Prime Minister's Office has more prepared wallets, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have the official data in my hands. In the second quarter, the Hungarian economy is against what you claim to have decreased by 13.5 percent over 14 percent. That's what I said. It's actually worse than expected. This is the second quarter. On the other hand, Eurostat estimates that EU Member States' economies have on average decreased by 14.1 percent. Thus, the Hungarian economy, although of course this data is bad, has fallen less than the average of the European Union. And the first quarter was a very good figure, so we are also, by definition, among the better in terms of half-yearly data. It is worth looking at year/year data, but it is important to wait until the end of the year; obviously, the extent of the recession is only the issue, but Hungary will be among the better in terms of the size of the recession. In addition, the Hungarian government has actively contributed to the preservation of over one million jobs with financial support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-86	Thank you very much, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Gábor Riz, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How can the human dignity of citizens be guaranteed? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-28-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, As has been said above, yesterday's election results have been joyful for our party family, and we also consider it important to achieve a similar result in Tiszaújváros on 11 October. With tragic suddenness and sad circumstances, our fellow Member Ferenc Koncz must continue his philanthropic, energetic work, with similar enthusiasm, dedication and empathy. The candidate of the left, which Ferenc Gyurcsány gründed, revealed very serious things. All this began with anti-Semitic manifestations of judapest and lice slides, anti-Gypsy outbursts like these, and then continued with blurry corporate affairs, intimidated, eviscerated workers and weapons threats. However, it is shocking that the turn of the turn of the left, who cry out snakes and frogs every day to bury democracy and the rule of law, is, in a hypocritical way, supporting a candidate who openly strikes an anti-Semitic tone. The Fidesz-KDNP pointed out a number of questions to the candidate on the left, but he did not respond to any of them, but only envisaged a multitude of lawsuits. However, a new situation has emerged: according to press reports, several documents confirm that Judge has withheld his employees' wages. They write about the appointment of a Wage Guarantee Commissioner. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] They also refer to a number of official documents setting the amount of wages that have been lost. How many people didn't he pay? How many families have their livelihoods been compromised? It is false that the László Bíró talks about jobs, decent wage payments, who, instead of paying his own employees, played his company stuffed with 50 million HUF of job protection into the hands of trombones. Enough of the founding, the sneaking (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ), confess to the candidate on the left. On the basis of what has been said, I would ask the Minister to tell me how to ensure that citizens have an elementary right to pay, pay and human dignity. [[András Tállai applauds.]]
u2020-09-28-88	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Riz. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-09-28-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the issue you mentioned is serious because the left who talks about job preservation, employee rights has nominated a better politician who otherwise does not pay the seamstress. So it's hard to say something more outrageous than that. State aid needed [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] , the state aid is accepted with thanks, but at the same time no wages are paid to the poorest. Obviously, it is for the voters to give an opinion on this. We can now say that this is a whole new phenomenon in Hungarian politics, and we have perhaps not seen it since 90, that we are here today that Jobbik's candidate is not only marked by the left, but the left is also able to identify with the anti-Semitic manifestations and support such a candidate that the candidate said earlier. The fact that the mayor of Budapest can support the candidate who mocks the Jewish community of Budapest in the otherwise anti-Semitic texts with a good heart is a unique Hungarian unicum; this should be accounted for by Mayor Gergely Christmas. But one thing is safe to say: the concern that the left shows for the workers here in Parliament is never honest. We see, in practice, that it is not an obstacle to a candidate's support if he destroys his own employees, and we also see that separation from all extremes is completely untrue and unfounded, if it is done by the left, because he is also happy to support candidates whose statements are unrecognizable and well-spoken. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-90	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Gábor Riz.
u2020-09-28-91	Thank you very much, Minister. We were accused of tampering with the news, and that it wasn't true. Let me deny it, knowing that I am the elected parliamentary representative of that constituency. I know the people of Chernely and the former workers of the seam, and we've been connected for many years. So what was said in front of the television is true, word for word. In fact, they said more serious things. I'm going to ask you how to trust people like Judges with the fate of a country. How to entrust jobs to Judge-like people and decent wage payments to people in the workplace? And how can you trust morals, integrity, and receive it from Jobbik, who has become a party of eye-shooters, expect them to give honor and honor to Hungarian work and its remuneration, to pay wages? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2020-09-28-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Riz. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Minister.
u2020-09-28-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In democracy, the final word is, of course, for voters. However, we can already say, in confidence in the wisdom of voters in the Szerencs constituency, that the importance of this local election and the significance of the left-wing candidates there, who belong to Jobbik, if it is still worth highlighting, goes beyond the boundaries of the constituency. We can say that it is obvious that, in order to gain power, the left does not shy away from any means, and we can also say that there is no moral objection to persons whose activities are opposed to what these parties are otherwise proclaiming about themselves. So we can draw this lesson before and regardless of the voter's decision, but it is obvious that the final decision belongs to the voters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-94	Thank you, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. How does the extension of the mortgage moratorium help Hungarians? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. András Aradski: I accept.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-09-28-95	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For more than half a year now, we have been living on a new timeline in the world as well as in Hungary, because unfortunately, the last few months have transformed all of our lives. Today, in the fight against the pandemic, protecting life is our priority, and the Fidesz-KDNP government is trying to achieve this with all its decisions. In addition to protecting lives, it is important to support economic processes and the lives of families. In this six-month period, the government has spent an outstanding amount of money on epidemiological and economic protection measures. In March, so almost immediately after the publication of the law in Hungary, he announced a credit moratorium and announced the suspension of the repayment of the loans by the end of the year. This, in turn, has brought relief in the lives of millions of Hungarian compatriots, and the extension of credit times has been a viable compromise. This meant that the repayment period of the loan would be extended, but the amount of the repayment should not change in the future. With this option, HUF 2000 billion remained with banks' clients, debtors in these difficult months, which served to preserve jobs and increase consumption. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Minister, Just a week ago, the government decided to extend the credit moratorium. This applies to individual social groups and perhaps the most difficult, vulnerable people, such as families, as well as parents, pensioners, job seekers, public workers, and children. That is why I would like to ask the Minister or Minister of State how much and how many people are expected to use the credit moratorium this year. How much is expected to remain in the family next year with the extension of the credit moratorium? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds, as Mr Vice-President has already pointed out.
u2020-09-28-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, the pandemic also appeared in Hungary in March. The government was the first of European countries to recognise what health and economic problems this could be, what needs to be done for families. It has also made a very fast decision in Europe, which is a decision that you have already presented. The impact of this moratorium decision affects about 60% of the clients involved, 1.6 million debtors. This means savings of HUF 2000 billion, including the 60,000 businesses that made use of this opportunity, of course temporarily, until the end of the year, for businesses and families. In view of the further impact of the pandemic, the expected economic difficulties of the second wave, its consequences, the government and the economic operational tribe decided to extend the moratorium on repayment until 30 June 2021. This, as you said, will affect certain social groups, families with children, pensioners, job seekers and the public. This will mean about 50 percent of those involved, 752,000 people. Of these, 512,000 families, 160,000 pensioners, 64,000 job seekers and 16,000 public workers who may be affected by this government decision. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman András Aradski has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-99	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answer. The Government of Hungary has a particular responsibility to support its troubled citizens at all times, including during the pandemic. Now all of a sudden, we had to help millions of lives and help them in the future, as long as this epidemic continues. To do this, I can say that the Christian Democratic People's Party will give all the support in Parliament's work, in the legislation necessary for such assistance. Helping families in these extraordinary times is a huge task, as is the expectation. We must overcome the virus epidemic in such a way that our common achievements so far are not lost, and this will also be supported by the extended credit moratorium. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-101	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Not only families are affected by the government's decision to extend the moratorium, but also businesses, businesses that protect jobs, create jobs. Businesses where turnover has decreased by 25 per cent for companies can be classified as such by about 10 to 12 thousand jobs can continue to benefit from the moratorium. This represents 15-20 percent of the businesses involved, leaving HUF 400-450 billion in business. This means that it will make it easier to operate financially so that it will probably be easier to keep jobs and continue its production and service. We are confident that those who are affected will be able to take advantage of this government decision, the possibility of a moratorium. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Where are the professionals, Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to respond. I respectfully ask the Member to accept the person who is responding. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, I accept your response.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-09-28-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that Minister Gergely Gulyás will give you an answer in substance, not as Secretary of State Bence Rétvári used to do. Hungary bought 15 825 respirators in the spring of 2020 for HUF 300 billion. From week to week, the numbers here in Parliament have flown about what they've bought. We often felt that we were not in Parliament, but in a big talker's race. Because the Parliament is a serious institution, where all questions are prepared professionally, the subject can only be discussed in full and presented. [[13.10]] Compared to this, the respirator case was far from professionalism and preparedness on the part of government representatives. That is why, although such a large number of devices have been bought at an enormous cost, there is already a panic in the health care system when 35 covids needing a ventilator. Why is that? Because each of these devices requires medical oxygen, compressed air on a wire network, thorough engineering design, dispensing pump, patient monitor, special support medications, specialists, special knowledge of nurses, and compatible connection system for machines. For each type of machine, a different training course shall be carried out for the crew in order to be able to provide it safely. The 15 825 ventilator needs 7900 intensive therapy nurses, 3100 intensive therapy specialists, and I need the technical conditions I was just talking about. Depending on the severity of the patient's condition, the ventilator should be accompanied by an intensive therapeutic nurse every 2 beds, and by one specialist, rather two, per 5-10 beds. My big question to the honourable government representative is where the specialists are for this ventilator. Was there even one person in the government system who would have remembered when making decisions that these tools were nothing but objects without creating a set of conditions? I'm waiting for an answer.
u2020-09-28-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[Gergely Gulyás is putting on his microphone.]] We'll wait for you, Minister; no problem, go ahead. Please restore time. Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2020-09-28-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, If we don't restore time, I can still finish answering because Congresswoman has asked a direct question. The best I can do is to acknowledge the extent to which you are familiar with health issues as a lawyer, or at least with matters relating to medical procurement. I can tell you that medical personnel are provided everywhere where a ventilator is needed. In the spring, there was no debate between us about the need to get a ventilator from wherever it might be. Today, however many diseases there will be, the number of specialists required to operate the ventilator will be available. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-106	Thank you very much, Minister. I will give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for a rejoinder. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-09-28-107	Thank you for the floor. In both today's session and the weekend press, we've heard that the Kiskunhalas epidemic hospital is about to be operational due to an increase in patient numbers. My question, Minister, from this aspect, is that there is the built-in ventilator for every bed with the infrastructure, there is the amount of medicine needed to facilitate lung capacity these machines can actually do, and there is the proper nurse staff and the specialist network there. And what is very important, which we will never talk about in this House: hospital departments, where there may even be surgery, are not possible without intensive therapeutic care without special staff. So not only do covidos need intensive care, but also, in case of a possible necessary surgery, there is an intensive care that serves those patients on the spot. You tell me, Minister, that in the Kiskunhalas Temporary Epidemiology Hospital, there are all the conditions available for it to function in a way that all the supply facilities in the clinic must function. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-28-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-09-28-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The answer is yes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-110	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. How long will the Hungarians pay the Fidesz special tax? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Tállai has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-111	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to quote the current Prime Minister of Hungary:. Weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. I ask how weak a government has been during its regency since 2010, but be benevolent, in a long 15 years the forint has devalued a third of the euro, and therefore this government is pouring a brutal special tax on people's necks, as it unduly pays all Hungarian buyers who use their credit cards or cash through every imported product, the price of the weak forint that is only good for those who give orders to Viktor Orbán's government. Only exporting multinationals benefit from weak forints, essentially no one else, and many of them that typically deliver profits from this country untaxed, while Hungarian people are constantly forced to spend unwarranted expenditures of the magnitude of a thousand billion, from a smartphone that no longer counts as a luxury item to basic foods, simply because either the price of all imported goods is higher because of weak forints, if it is purchased in euros or in other currencies, or because domestic-produced goods also require the use of foreign tools, materials, chemicals, spraying machines or grabbers. Therefore, the price of everything goes up unduly, and the Government of Hungary is a lousy duck on this issue. I do not mean to say that you are the only ones responsible for a HUF/euro exchange rate, because we know that these are a lot of complex processes, but I would like to say that during the same period the Czech crown was strengthened by 20 percent, the Polish złoty was strengthened by 10 percent, and Hungary's forints lost a third of its value. So I ask you, Minister, are you really such weak people? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I mentioned in the introduction, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to say that the protection of the stability of the exchange rate is the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank, the government does not want to interfere with this, has not done so, and does not intend to do so. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which intervened with a forint market transaction or reduced the base rate by 0.6 percent in June and July, currently considers that, in order to achieve the inflation target, lower interest rates are needed in order to restart economic growth. The government does not wish to qualify for this. As regards government activity in relation to foreign exchange: I think that the government has done a great deal to reduce the government's foreign exchange exposure. From 70 percent to less than 1 percent of the residential loan. Honourable Congressman, The weakening of regional currencies is not a consequence of economic policy in Hungary. Yesterday, in a unique way in Europe, Moody's credit rating has rated Hungary and placed it in a positive category. The justification also states that Hungary has taken appropriate steps to protect the economy at the time of the coronal virus, and that is why it received this new qualification, which means further strengthening of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-115	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary, don't talk in between sentences. For 30 years, I've been hearing that they want to meet the credit rating agencies. I was asking about the wallets of Hungarian citizens, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact is that they took over the helm around HUF 275, and we are now in or above HUF 360. It is an incredibly weak product that they have put down, their conscious strategy for you is to weaken the forint. For this reason I said not to get dizzy: Mr Secretary of State, here in Parliament, the President of the Hungarian National Bank has repeatedly said that they can do as much for the Hungarian forint as the legislator allows with his laws. Who can amend the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, Mr State Secretary? You. Stop trying to pass on the responsibility. It is your responsibility, the weak people, the servants of the colonial government, that the Hungarian people pay a thousand billion-dollar special tax. They can't take their responsibilities off their hands. If you want to change the Hungarian National Bank Act tomorrow, we will be partners. Everything else is empty. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2020-09-28-117	Thank you very much. It is likely that the change of the Hungarian National Bank Act should not be aimed at affecting the independence of the Hungarian National Bank. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] However we can amend the law, the Hungarian National Bank must be allowed to make independent decisions. [[Interventions and noise from the benches of opposition parties.]] whatever government Hungary has or will have. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] However, I would like to say that your allies, with whom they are running for office in the Szerencs election (Z. Kárpát Dániel: Blabla...) and in the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány's foreign exchange loan (Z. Kárpát Dániel: Blabla...) ran away when millions of Hungarian families got into trouble. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Coward man, cowardly secretary of state of the cowardly government!]] and whether you like it or not, the Fidesz government had to think with the Hungarian National Bank after 2010 [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You made a deal...]] put him in his place, no matter how he yells [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Banker's Government!]] In the midst of my answer. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Banker's Government! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13:20. I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to change the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. [[Sic! Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] if you do not ask... to answer, if you do not ask the question, because you have the right to do so, the question shall be deemed to be withdrawn. After these are put forward, I respectfully ask Mr Sándor Szabó, the MEP, the notary of the Parliament, who wants to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology an immediate question. It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of his absence, Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State to respond. [[Sándor Szabó's signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating your acceptance, but on the basis of what you have just said, Mr Sándor Szabó, the notary of the Parliament, please give the floor.
u2020-09-28-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, This year's budget includes more than HUF 2 billion that municipal authorities can devote to supporting local public transport, with the exception of the city of Budapest. This is not the case for the following year, as this amount is no longer included in the budget for 2021, which I think will have unforeseen consequences for the provision of services to municipalities. By the way, this amount could have been requested by the municipalities through the tender from your professional wallet, and I am sure that both the town with 23 county rights and the 48 settlements concerned would have applied for it this year, if this had been the case. That didn't happen. At this time last year, the decision was made, and the money was in the accounts of the municipal authorities. By the way, the city of Szeged received a HUF 328 million grant last year, the absence of which would be a serious cut for the settlement, but not only for Szeged, but, as I said, for the other 70 settlements concerned, as the local authorities suffered a significant loss of revenue due to the epidemic situation, and your government also hit the settlements with significant financial withdrawals. Calm me down, Mr. State Secretary, it is not that the further financial impossibility of local governments, the withdrawal of its financial resources will continue, and at all, they do not want to give these 2 billion forints to the municipal authorities. For this reason, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary when the application for support for local transport will be launched. When will the municipalities have access to the financial resources in the central budget? And you're not gonna tell me in your answer that, by the way, this year, the settlements are not gonna get this money, are you? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-09-28-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is, allow me to draw your attention to the voluntary responsibilities of local transport, the provision of local passenger services to municipalities and municipal associations. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that the increase in local government's industrial tax revenue has been outstanding in recent years, but in the last five years alone, there has been more than 50 percent increase in local government's industrial tax revenue. We also think, and this is also a clear fact, that the Hungarian government gives the municipalities all the support and all the opportunities to help their work. Today, every Hungarian settlement in Hungary can rely on the government, which is why I think that it is not possible to stress enough that the opposite of what you suggest is true, the support of local authorities has increased significantly in both the 2020 and 2021 budgets. Support for local authorities will be 16 percent higher next year than for this year. Honourable Congressman, I think that can reassure you, too, because it was not our government that put the municipalities in a state of bankruptcy; it was the governance of the left, it was your government, and it was almost 1400 1400 between 2011-2014! The government had to take over a billion forints of debt from the indebted municipalities. That was your performance, and what you see is ours. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-28-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you're bluffing. You know very well that much more money will be drawn from the municipalities next year than it was in previous years. If I look only at the car tax, which will be taken away in its entirety, the solidarity contribution, which will affect the municipalities to a greater extent, and we can talk about further financial withdrawals. The current budget includes, once again, the more than HUF 2 billion that we have all accepted for community transport for municipal authorities in the budget. I ask you to give this money to the municipal authorities, more specifically to the people, because if this money is not there for the municipal authorities, it will be in the capacity of the service and will punish either pro-government or opposition voters, but the inhabitants of the settlement. So please give this money to the municipal authorities.
u2020-09-28-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-125	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman, I do not know if you have noticed that, in the last six months, Hungary, Europe and many countries of the world have been under protection from an epidemic. This defence has costs, and we believe that it is right for as many players as possible to contribute to the costs of this defence: banks contribute, multinational companies contribute, municipalities contribute, parties contribute and the Hungarian government contributes. Honourable Congressman, I would like to ask that it be clear to you that, in recent years and in the coming year, we are increasing the support of the municipalities, contrary to the situation that these municipalities have had to suffer under your governance; and kindly accept that the municipalities must also contribute to the control of the epidemic. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Representative László Varju, representative of DK, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. Why did they abandon the people, why did they release the forint's hand? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of the President of the Hungarian National Bank, he appointed Vice-President Barnabas Virág to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Laszlo Varju nods.]] Thank you very much for your signal. Congressman László Varju has the floor, please.
u2020-09-28-127	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Vice President, Now that the forint has reached its historic low in April, when a euro cost 369 HUF, let me quote Viktor Orbán from the times when the current Prime Minister felt the fate of Hungarians even more in his heart. Therefore, listen to what he said at the time:. The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people; the weaker forint means a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.30]] I will continue with the quote:. By weakening the forint, money is actually stolen from people's pockets, as people who live from wages, salaries and other contributions can buy less goods in the store, and pensioners' benefits are less. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how Viktor Orbán was worried about the forint in 2004 on News TV. Do you know how much a euro cost then, Mr Vice President? 262 forints. According to Viktor Orbán, the euro exchange rate of 262 HUF is the fulfillment of weak forints. Dear House, Well, how exactly did this become HUF 363.98 for today, and how is it that the person who was so worried about the price of Euros 262 now does what in order to protect Hungarians in a situation more than HUF 100 more expensive? The question is, if it was a weak forint then, what do you call it now, Mr Vice President. I'd love to hear your explanation. But during the Gyurcsány government, when the forint was much stronger, for you... The Hungarians today have a crisis to deal with, and that is why it is preventing them from making this struggle effective, what you are doing. Why did they abandon people? Why did they finally let go of the forint's hand? How deep is the rabbit hole? How long will the Hungarian forint device be weakened? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2020-09-28-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask you to take better care of the time frame at another time. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Vice President Barnabas Virág. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with a very short quote. I would like to quote from the Central Bank Act, which says: "The primary objective of the Hungarian National Bank is to achieve and maintain price stability. Without compromising the central bank's primary objective, it supports the maintenance of financial stability and the government's economic policy. It is important to know that price stability is defined in Hungary as an inflation target of 3 per cent, and we expect inflation to develop in a range of 3 per cent, plus or minus 1 per cent, i.e. between 2 and 4 per cent. Allow me just a few more facts from the last four years. In 2017 average inflation in Hungary is 2.4, in 2018, 2.9, in 2019 3.4, in 2020, according to current analyses, 3.5 to 3.6 percent, so it can be seen that inflation is continuously developing in this band around the central bank target. Hungary has been operating the so-called inflation target monitoring system since 2001. Since then, we have seen for the first time that the central bank has been able to achieve this inflation target for four years, with which I would like to note that we have been able to demonstrate a unique performance in Europe, since 2010, in general, since the last crisis, the European central banks have not been able to achieve their targets. Allow me also to say that, naturally, I do not want to suggest that the evolution of the exchange rate is not important and should not be dealt with. We keep looking at it, we keep looking at how it affects inflation and how it affects the economy. With regard to inflation, it can be seen that over the past ten years the impact of inflation has decreased, and naturally there are other channels, in terms of macroeconomic GDP development and external vulnerability, which we will have to take into account continuously. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varju. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-131	Mr President, I thank you once again for your patience, but I must say to Mr Vice-President that you are clearly not affected by the facts in political communication. To the simple state that one euro costs a hundred forints more is not an explanation of what you have said. Please assure me that the curriculum of lower class mathematics remains appropriate and is used in the Hungarian National Bank, because if so, the former math must come out to you. So your buried forint on the left was exactly a hundred forints stronger than the euro is now yours. If that is the case and you have not yet been able to recreate the rules of mathematics, please tell us what immediate measures are being taken to strengthen the weak forint. Double the family allowance? You're giving an immediate pension supplement to the elderly? Will they reduce taxes on fuel? Because this is the time to help the people who need it. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-28-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Vice President Barnabas Virág to take the floor.
u2020-09-28-133	Thank you very much for the questions. Naturally, I would like to say a few more facts in absolute compliance with the mathematical rules. In 2019, real wages in Hungary increased by 7.7 percent, i.e. the purchasing power of wages increased by 7.7 percent, which is the highest in the region in the first half of this year, despite the fact that this year had a severe coronal virus situation with 6.4 percent, which is also a high value in European comparison. It is no coincidence that retail consumption decreased by 1.6 percent in the first half of the year, which is the third most favourable figure in the European Union. Again, in fact, this value was around 7-9 percent in 2009. Perhaps another important factor in the exchange rate, which is perhaps the most important again for the population and Hungarian businesses: we have managed to eliminate retail foreign exchange debts in recent years. In this way, the exchange rate fluctuations that occur naturally throughout the world during such a period do not affect Hungarian households and Hungarian businesses through increased debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Fellow Members! Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How much longer? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-135	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, One of the biggest problems with the current economic system in Hungary is that we do not pay for the caring work that provides the basis for participation in the primary labour market, so we do not pay enough for people who do work at home or in an institution without which others cannot earn money. The fact is that one of the government's best decisions was to introduce the weed, the children's home care fee, and raise the minimum wage for home care, while not settling the situation of home care providers. Let's move so they can make a move. Public benefit association and co-organisations have sent open letters to all Members of Parliament and the government. As I understand it, this open letter was given to the Secretary of State. It is said that because there are many retired parents, relatives, who can't get the weeds because of the pension, that if it's above a certain amount, it means a terrible injustice, because it means that there are people who work between 0 and 24 hours and who don't get a sufficient number of benefits. In addition, I have to say that, for some reason, the Fidesz government does not want to change that, and it is not easy to understand why this is happening, that the elderly caregivers, who do not care for their children at home, will receive 38 or 58 thousand forints to this day, are the 5-10-15 percent increase that they will say in response, and I already know in my dream it means 5, 7, and 8 thousand forints in particular. So my question is, in addition to the time when the changes to the pensions of the organisations concerned will be taken into account, when the minimum wage will finally be introduced for non-home caregivers. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-28-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we all recognize the work of people who care for their children or other relatives, who are often incapable of self-sufficiency, or who are only partially incapable, at home 24 hours a day, every day of the year. For this reason, it is important to measure the share of the budget for each government in supporting them and helping them. There was a sum on the left, and there's a sum we're going to use. When the left last put together a budget, he spent 15 billion forints on the financial recognition of this work, and we spend 55 billion forints on it. It is clear, then, who is really not only speaking and not just taking on petitions, but also acting, and from the economic surplus that is being produced in a country when there is a right-wing government in the previous speech, we have heard what setbacks there were under the left-wing government, well, then he is trying to give more to these families too, because it is indeed a superhuman sacrifice that they are making. [[13.40]] Honourable Congressman, In order for this increase to happen, you had the opportunity, like all the Members of Parliament on the left, by about two years ago, here in Parliament, when we decided to introduce the child's care fee, we first introduced a fee of HUF 100,000 for caregivers at home, and then we increased it to the minimum wage, but neither you nor any of your left-wing fellow Members supported it here in Parliament, because at that time they had something more important to do. At the same time, they were self-parking and beeping here in Parliament, which is more important to you than to vote for this proposal for a Member of Parliament, both self-checking, beeping and Facebook online. We have already introduced the fact that for at least 20 years anyone who has cared for his child at home will receive a pension supplement of HUF 50,000. This was also an important decision because we also made decisions that involved this type of activity. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] classified it as a period to be included in both the health insurance contribution and the pension. I'll pick it up from here in a minute. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-139	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying that the last time the left governed Hungary and I wrote my graduation at Toldi Ferenc High School, so I do not think that in a debate with me, why is it relevant what happened then? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] The fact is, you never answer the question of what should be the basis for the distinction between caregivers who do not have children at home and caregivers who care for their children at home. So why doesn't the minimum wage apply to non-home caregivers in the same way? I've asked you once, in writing, three hundred times, once give me one reason why this distinction is one. Secondly, it is a good thing that they receive a supplement, but the fact is that we do not understand why pensions in themselves should be an exclusion factor for the assessment of a home care fee at any level. I would ask you not to continue with the panel collection, but to answer these two questions, please. Thank you.
u2020-09-28-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is worth comparing your performance, honourable Member, with the present-day benefits, because if you look at the last Sunday elections, you have put forward a joint candidate with Ferenc Gyurcsány if we look at the next elections, they will put together joint candidates in each election. So you have lined up behind Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has spent HUF 15 billion on this purpose, against the government that is spending HUF 55 billion on this, honourable Member. Both the care fee and the children's home care fee increased this year, it increased last year, and it will increase next year, which is an important objective of the government. This year, children's care fees increased by 23 percent. If you compare the size and size of the benefit of a parent caring for a child at home, who is in serious condition, and who was at home in 2010, you can expect more than three times more benefits, and this will continue to be the case. We're trying to do everything we can. To whom the left was insensitive, we felt the problems [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are trying to help their situation, and that is why we are spending not HUF 15, but HUF 55 billion on their support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that, due to the Minister's absence, you have given Mr Bence Rétvári the right to reply. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Your Honour. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have questions about the testing protocol. The government claims that it has been following the recommendations of the global organisation from the outset, but unfortunately, this is not the case with regard to testing, since the recommendation of the global organisation is that the testing strategy is appropriate, if less than 5 percent of the tests carried out are positive, and this has not been achieved in Hungary for several days, this ratio is around 10 percent. That means that this probably means we're running a few tests. The question is, why don't we test it anymore. Even before Mr. Secretary of State says that I'm attacking health workers right now, I'm not attacking them, I'm not attacking the government, but I'm criticizing this test protocol. It is certain that people want to test because they want to work, because they want to visit their family members, they don't want to infect others, which is why it would be important to have voluntary, free testing, which we have done several times. So it seems more and more that we're running a few tests because we don't have enough capacity, which is why we've set up, as far as I know, the 17 new outpatient sampling points, because the paramedics couldn't take the tests anymore. But it seems that this is too little, so my question, Mr Secretary, is that you would like to expand your testing capacity, if you wish to expand it, how. Thank you for your reply.
u2020-09-28-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári for a two-minute answer. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First, let's talk about WHO protocols. You too may be familiar with a previous declaration by Ledia Lazeri, the head of the WHO in Hungary, in which he said that Hungary is carrying out enough coronal virus tests, and that the screening is effective. According to WHO, it is optimal to carry out 10 more tests for each detected and confirmed infection. This ratio is much higher in Hungary, so the ratio is much better than one in ten. It's the optimal measure. What you're quoting is from another document that refers to when restrictions can be alleviated. The two should not be confused as to which is the scale of mitigation and which is effective testing. That's one in ten that's effective. WHO's office manager in Hungary also said that what Hungary is doing is in line with WHO recommendations. Let us see which countries are carrying out tests at a lower rate than Hungary. I can list Belgium here for you. These 28th figures, if you look back at the past period and look at this until 28 September, are worse than the Hungarian ratio in Hungary, Belgian, Bulgarian data, Swiss, Czech, Dutch, French, Romanian, Croatian, Swedish, Spanish, and could continue with other countries where data are worse than Hungarian data. As the demand has increased, capacity has obviously also increased. The number of daily tests is now much higher than at the end of the summer. You can see that the number of tests is far over 600,000, it is close to 700,000, and in addition, unlike other countries, the vast majority of these tests are free of charge in Hungary, since everyone who is ordered to be tested by their home doctor or by the epidemiological authority can carry out these tests free of charge. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-28-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr Secretary, you did not answer the question. So you think everything's okay with this test protocol right now, everything's great, because that's not what a lot of people say. So I'm really asking you honestly how you plan to do it. Then you think it's perfectly all right, while, by the way, you might have to wait up to a week for the test results and their evaluation, and obviously these outpatient points were set up because the paramedics couldn't do all these tests. I have another specific question because I see that they are not willing to support free voluntary testing. According to Professor Béla Merkely, employees of the metropolitan nursing home are regularly tested. Does this mean that the government plans a similar measure for public education and health workers? Moreover, the Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed that it is of the utmost importance that schools work. Does this give priority to educators with suspicious symptoms at their GP's when taking the test and examining the samples? I mean, it's supposed to keep schools running. Would you consider these suggestions?
u2020-09-28-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The constantly changing position of the opposition is well shown by the fact that at one moment you have demanded that we not graduate, and now you are asking how to make the operation of education even more effective. [[13.50]] It shows that they don't have any concept, but they're just opposed to what the government is saying at the moment. From October 1st, Thursday at schools, at entry points, body temperature measurements are launched so that we can defend ourselves against the epidemic as effectively as possible. This is also a measure that, as soon as the government had taken it, left-wing organizations had already protested against it and called it a visual action and a mood-enhancing measure. I'd like to continue to quote you to the WHO office manager at Clubradio in Clubradio. said: the directive to avoid screening more than one patient per ten tests can be said to be effective. So you have to tell yourself, according to the rules of mathematics, that testing is effective at the moment. How can you speed it up? Obviously, it is the more intensive relationship with the general practitioner that can accelerate the ordering and downsizing of testing, or if someone is in the digital health space. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] , in the ESZT he constantly checks his own side. But still, I tell you, testing is free of charge for anyone who shows any symptoms of the disease in Hungary or gets involved in contact research. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How can the purity of local public life be ensured? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister Balázs Orbán appointed and justified Secretary of State for his reply. Accordingly, Mr László Böröcz has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's been a long time since there's been a man in this country who doesn't know the name Csaba Lackner. Yes, he is the socialist politician in Kispest whose financial situation is unusual for an average municipal representative: 100 million real estate, luxury watches, hundreds of thousands of parties per month and white dust bags swinging in front of a fan. However, the scandal is not quiet, now a witness has come forward who can justify the existence of the underworld operations of the Left of Kispest. The driver of the local left spoke openly to the press about corruption in the Lackner-Kranitz-Gajda triangle. The driver participated on numerous occasions at the Lackner parties, which included accounts for drug use and redistributive money, and even often hosted consum girls at their meetings. It is worrying that these things have taken place with the knowledge and participation of Mayor Péter Gajda of MSZP, but it is even more outrageous that it has not had any consequences since then, since Krisztián Kranitz, known as Krinyo, is still at the head of the trust in Kispest, even though Lackner says that everyone knows how much he has put in his pockets. But the mayor could also be questioned about why he wouldn't resign from his mandate. I wonder if he's got something on him. I would like to quote the words of the driver who spoke to the press about the repulsive situation in which the leaders of Kispest abuse the voter's confidence: "It is outrageous what happened in Kispest, the way they treated people, the way they dealt with human fates, and the way they denied after the scandal broke out. In addition, it confirms that the recordings were not manipulated, that what was said there is a true reflection of reality. The silence on the left is noticeably high, Gyurcsány, Christmas, MSZP and other small parties look the other way. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And there are no consequences. With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how to ensure the purity of local public life. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and Gentlemen, Indeed, we agree that this corruption-suspecting issue, which has already, it can be said, has been poisoning Hungarian public life for over a year, overshadowing and embarrassing the local government system in Budapest, so it would be desirable for all of us, regardless of their political affiliation, and it would be a good thing for the country if it could end quickly and end up on this sad issue. That takes two things. On the one hand, this type of corruption can have legal consequences. As the congressman mentioned, there are also new developments here, because according to press reports, a witness has appeared, who has once again confirmed, from more than one place, that they have seen and heard on the video, that they are true, and that we see and hear the characters who are being reported in the press. If that is the case, then the authorities have a duty in this regard. On behalf of the Government of Hungary, I can only say to you here that I hope that the authorities, which are independent in this respect, will do their job. There is also a political consequence, or political responsibility, of this corruption issue, which is independent of legal accountability, by the way. Here, the left-wing opposition parties have joint and several responsibility with those involved in this corruption case, if they cannot be persuaded to draw conclusions and leave public life. This has not happened to this day, and it is one of the shames of the left that, to this day, this issue has to be dealt with in the Hungarian Parliament and local public life, and the stakeholders have not left public life to this day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Mr László Böröcz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-28-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Of course we agree on that. The only reason this situation is weird is because Csaba Lackner is quite clearly visible and audible on these recordings, and there are very clear statements and sentences about corruption cases in Kispest. Compared to this, the entire left, DK, MSZP, not only listened to it, but even brought out the obvious lie that it could not be recognized that Csaba Lackner was on the tapes. This case poisons Hungarian politics, poisons Hungarian public life, and should not continue the management of the local government marked by Miklós Hagyó's name, whether in Kispest or elsewhere, so I hope that this case will be resolved as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-28-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman! I have to say that we were unfair to the left just now, because here my colleagues wrote in the background that the left-wing municipality had indeed set up a committee to investigate the matter, and they came to the conclusion that the conversation of a friendly company with a relaxed atmosphere can be heard, in the background, besides various songs, glassing, filling of drinks, and other noises, mostly private and sometimes public topics can be heard. This is the bucolic description that the socialist majority committee, which examines cases, has been able to establish. I would encourage left-wing opposition parties to continue their investigation, there are more than a friendly, cheerful discussion. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister an immediate question: what does the Government do to increase jobs? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that Minister Tamás Menczer has given Mr. Secretary of State the right to reply because of his absence. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, When the Fidesz-KDNP government took over governance in 2010, it committed itself to a work-based society to preserve jobs and create new jobs. The last ten years have shown that the Hungarian government has created the background of various job grants and investment incentives for those who want to work as Hungarians to work.However, 2020 has shaken the whole world, as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, economic sectors have been devastated, and the Hungarian government is committed to ensuring that no Hungarians remain on their own and that not only do we retain jobs, but we create as many new jobs as the virus has caused them to disappear. And this is not only a practical message, but also a much deeper message, namely that the Hungarian government is committed to stimulating investment, because we all know, and of course we look forward to the moment when the coronal virus epidemic is over, but at that moment in the world economy, a very sharp and hard battle is starting to redistribute capacities, and it is important that companies with world high technology trust in the Hungarian government and trust in Hungary. It is therefore very important to be able to work, to preserve jobs and to create new jobs. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary what the Hungarian Government is doing to increase jobs. [[14.00]]
u2020-09-28-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As you have just heard, the answer will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I fully agree with you on the light of the issue; indeed, the workplace is very important, if there is work, there is everything, if there is work, there is certain income, there is a sure vision, there is a predictable vision. On the other hand, if there is no job, then all this will be lost, and uncertainty and unpredictability will replace it. Indeed, as you pointed out, in 2010, the government met with 11.5-12 percent unemployment, so it was obvious that it was one of the most important tasks of creating jobs and helping to create jobs. One of the important tools for this was the tax reduction. Today, in Hungary, corporation tax is 9 percent, which is the lowest in the European Union, personal income tax is 15 percent, which is also one of the smallest figures. Thus, the implementation of tax reductions has also helped create jobs. Even because, in our view, people need to be given work, they need to be helped to work, not deal with the problem with aid, even because it is not a real treatment. So the workplace is, if you will, one of the most important things in our view and practically, of course. Thus, as you have indicated, the external economic institution system has been established on the one hand and, on the other hand, it has been used to create jobs and investments. Since 2014, since this institutional system has been in place, which has three legs in investment promotion, export assistance, investment and lending to exports, i.e. supporting financing, we have been able to carry out more than 500, 538 investments and have been decided on. This creates over 90,000 jobs. And now, even during the Crown Virus crisis, we are striving to make investments so that jobs can remain. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. For KDNP, it is also important to preserve jobs, create new jobs and promote investment, as we see that in every difficult economic situation, there is always the opportunity. And there is the opportunity to open up to an economic dimension, and this is also research and development managed by knowledge, for example, which is a very important new economic activity and an important part of the government's work, because the success of the Hungarian economy is based on the knowledge, work and talent of Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Tamás Menczer is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-165	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, in the competition for investment, which is killing and amazing in the world, it has been, and is, in recent years, one of our greatest advantages is the talent and diligence of the Hungarian people, without doubt. In addition, we have the tax environment, the tax cuts, and it is in our favour, as I have said, the right infrastructure, and the right education and training will also help us to bring investment here. Now, there is a crisis, and we all know that, in this we have a job to do, where we can, to keep jobs where we can't, to create new jobs. More than 900 companies, 904 companies have already applied to our applications at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have undertaken to protect more than 150,000 jobs. And we're also trying to make sure that the reorganization that's going on in the world because of the coronal virus crisis comes out of this, and that, if possible, where a factory might be shut down in another country, we can bring it here and open it up at our place. Thank you for your consideration. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas has given him the right to reply. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Your Honour, Deputy Minister. In July, Hungary's Government decided to build a MotoGP track in Hajdúnánás. When selecting the location of the track, a number of aspects were certainly considered, but were conservation and agricultural aspects also raised? Yes or no? Did István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, draw your colleagues' attention to the need to permanently remove hundreds of fields of land from cultivation during the construction process? Yes or no? Did you know that the trail of the MotoGP track was previously built on 195 hectares in Sávoly by the incorporation of 4 thousand tons of stone? You can never farm in this area again. And now the same fate awaits the lands of Hajdúnáns, many of which are otherwise protected, Natura 2000 classified. While the removal of each hectare of arable land from the production of average maize production means a loss of income of HUF 400 000 per year to farmers, I respectfully ask Mr. Deputy Minister as the number two leader of the Hungarian agriculture and environmental protection, you believe that the area of palanquin that has become unfit for agricultural cultivation or the dissecting of hundreds of hectares of agricultural land on the border of Hajdúnánás is a reasonable solution. We are looking forward to your reply. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Difficult question! A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The question you raised, I believe, was asked as a former sportsman, a man committed to sport. At a time when we are talking about a track in the Strip, it is unfortunately necessary to say that this was planned in 2008, and since then the venue of this competition, whether in line or in construction or in infrastructure, has no longer met the requirements and requirements of today's times. It was therefore decided that another course would indeed be chosen in Hajdúság. The designation of this course was made by three major cities, I would like to say exactly, Debrecen, Miskolc, Nyíregyháza, which clearly supported it. I think that when we talk about racing in Formula One, another opportunity in motor sports, in catching up in the area, in the infrastructure development of the region, not least in sport and audiences, is a serious venue for visitors to set up this track. With regard to your question, environmental protection, land law and other issues, I must say that this area will indeed be withdrawn from the field. But if we look at it and I know that you won't accept how many hectares have come out of farming since the change of regime, then it's the regiment of thousands. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] because about one million hectares have been extracted from farming in the last thirty years. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Unfortunately!]] Unfortunately. However, it must also be said that not only unfortunately, but also these areas have indeed led to new roads, motorways, new industrial facilities, industrial parks, and now, of course, solar power plants, which do not represent a significant part of land extraction, but still a transformation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-28-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ádám Steinmetz. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-171	Your Honour, Deputy Minister. After Attila Móring József, seriously, are you campaigning against Sávoly? And you didn't answer, and I ask again, did you draw attention to environmental damage? Allow me to give you the message of our somogyi countrymen: if the BMW wants a test track in East Hungary, build for yourself. Don't build a test track for BMW from our tax forints at a time of crisis for hundreds of billions. It's nonsense after all! And you think it's okay to take the farmers' livelihoods, take the farmers' land, and tear it down without blinking at it? While there would be another way if we wanted MotoGP tournaments. The lane must be completed, with much less money and no damage to the environment. We are looking forward to your reply. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2020-09-28-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from Mr. Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-173	Honourable Congressman, So, you're campaigning on the freeway in Lane? I'm gonna ask you back. 'Cause it's gonna prove me Who's campaigning at all, what I'm campaigning for. I am campaigning for one thing, in addition to the fact that the investments that are being made in this respect do not make any difference whether in Transdanubia or in Eastern Hungary, but it doesn't matter, because the development of East Hungary is much lower than in Western Hungary, and therefore, if such an investment is made, the economic development of this region will clearly be strengthened. And the fact that they're cutting off 300 acres now? Honourable Congressman, You know it's not a real number. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: å How does the family of five replace that one piece of meat? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai granted the right to reply. Congresswoman Anett has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to give you a lecture on the short-term economic relationship between unemployment and inflation, and you and I are aware that if the economy is in supply shock due to external economic impacts, then there are two objectives to be harmonised: keeping prices in check and maintaining employment. Short-term economic impacts pose significant challenges for all economic strategy designers. In this situation, it is easy to make mistakes, and this, in my view, has happened in our country. The economic and social crisis caused by the corona virus is unpredictable. The crisis is a surprise to all of us on the supply and demand side, but the economic consequences cannot be allowed to drag down our country as a vortex. Our problem is twofold: the unemployment rate, if we look at it, is the only one that has lost more employment in the European Union than in Greece, and we have been European champions for two months in a row in the average increase in the price level. The average inflation rate in the EU is 0.4 per cent and is close to 10 per cent at home. The price of seasonal food increased by more than 20 percent, which was also at the top of the Eurostat list. The problems are further strengthened by the fact that during the same period of the previous year, we had to pay 12 percent less for a euro than we do now. For example, we pay more than 19 percent today for pork chops compared to last summer. So with the same money you could buy five slices of last year, it's four now. I respectfully ask you, especially since many family supporters have lost their jobs here at home: how does the family of five replace that one piece of meat? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-09-28-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as we have heard, will be heard from Secretary of State András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say that the inflation process is not only typical of Hungary, and it is not typical of the Hungarian economy alone, because in the Czech Republic and Poland there is a similar price increase. As far as the example is concerned, you should know that, from 2010 to 2020, so in ten years, the Hungarian Government, as the Vice-President of the National Bank said, has taken significant steps to ensure that inflation in the country is low, around 2 percent. You are now presenting the economic difficulties of the past months, the pandemic, the virus, as if it were a trend, as if it were a process typical of the Hungarian economy. Before doing this, you should also know that in the second half of 2019 there was a major outbreak of swine fever in China, in which the international pig market fell and prices increased across Europe. And the rise in the price of vegetables was caused by drought, which, by the way, was settled in August 2020 and restored. The increase in fruit is caused by frost and drought, as half and a quarter of the crop is expected as it was last year. In the case of margarine and potatoes, there is a specific price reduction, but this is also true of dry pasta. So I would like to point out to the Member that prices are balancing, and when we may pay more for a slice of pork in a period of time and pay less for other foods, these are market economic processes, which are typical of Hungary for the time being.
u2020-09-28-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anett. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That is why I began my speech by saying that we are facing a short-term external which has given us all ample surprises, but if I have listened to your response and you say that it is difficult to target the decline in inflation rates today, so we should have aimed at maintaining employment, which is what we have not been able to read from Eurostat data, or at least restrictively. But we also know that two thirds of Hungarians do not have a reserve to cover an unexpected expenditure, which also means that families cannot make up for the rapid loss of employment because they do not have any savings. Dear Secretary of State, You have said so far that the opposition is not involved in crisis management, but I see that we have a much more identical goal, we need to save society, we need to save certain sectors of the national economy, and you are not open to taking constructive proposals. I think that when I look at the unemployment rate and the inflation rate, if one cannot be kept to a level, at least the other should be tried. This is what I object to in the current work of the Treasury Department, none of which has succeeded. Thank you for listening.
u2020-09-28-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder to Secretary of State András Tállai, Deputy Minister.
u2020-09-28-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to employment, today's statistics show that more than 4.5 million people are employed; it is unbelievable, but more than in the period before the epidemic, it reaches the level of January. So I can't interpret your criticism. As far as people's reserves are concerned, consider how people bought sovereign bonds, government bonds Plus bonds for thousands of billion forints. And the fact that we are not open to the opposition's arguments: I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the opposition is not open to government initiatives. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] because when we constantly put the VAT reduction before Parliament from 2014, your party, DK, did not vote for any VAT cuts in Parliament. But that would have achieved the exact purpose for which you have spoken. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-28-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Brussels has found a new synonym for solidarity? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-09-28-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Last Wednesday, the European Commission presented its new proposal on migration and asylum, and, according to Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, we have found a balance between responsibility and solidarity. This proposal, in the opinion of the President, takes into account the specificities, geographical location, capacities, orientations of the Member States and the fact that migratory pressures are changing at our borders from time to time. They believe, and the Commission believes, that they have found the right solution to remedy the problem. At the same time, even if distribution is not stressed, it is true that illegal migrants must be taken over by the Member States. Hungary has taken the same position since 2015, and we place the emphasis on three main pillars: border protection, fight against smugglers and help sent to the people in need. [[14.20]] At the same time, the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, says that the issue is not that the Member States should manage migration, but how it is managed. However, if we look at it from here, this proposal does smell like quota, and it is uncertain whether it is about playing with words, or whether we have actually managed to find a solution that is a real solution, a real step forward in dealing with the problem, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-184	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-28-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, Indeed, there is another product of the Brussels word magic if we look at the document, since we started in 2015 from the point where the kind of obligation that was to be imposed on the Member States was called quota with crude simplicity. We remember the unsolvable, full-page, legal form of the Juncker formula, which Hungary did not accept, attacked before the Court of Justice of the Union, and the two years after it was said that it was not part of the legislation, so it would only have been temporary. This thing is over us. Now they have come up with a new thing where, dressed in a gown of responsibility and solidarity, it is again a word magic, which called migration, economic immigration, and now we call quotas solidarity, or a commitment to return home, which is an interesting phenomenon, because if the Member States cannot return the rejected asylum seekers to their place of origin, then we will resolve them from another Member State on the basis of the allocated quota and then I will use the quota word again, and if that is not possible, then let us take them over. Now we've come to the same place we started. So this is totally unacceptable magic, with the phenomenon of how to describe it, explaining the same thing that is unacceptable to states in the region. We have already acted against this, and we will continue to act after this. Indeed, as the Member mentioned, we would continue to favour those solutions, thus focusing on border protection and assistance on the ground. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, please.
u2020-09-28-187	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I see that the Government of Hungary is very serious about its responsibilities towards the European Union, as since 2000, it has also invested a great deal of human knowledge, sacrifice and material sacrifice in border protection. This amount can be counted at one billion euros, protecting not only Hungary, but also the borders of the European Union and the security of its citizens. It has been a long time since then for five years, but it can be seen that we are now not only sharing this opinion, but, for example, last time, the Austrian Chancellor took up this triple pillar, the importance of border protection, smuggling and local assistance in his interview with the AFP. I urge the government to be persistent in fulfilling our obligations and to continue to protect the borders of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-09-28-189	I can promise the Congresswoman that we will go on this path. We are pleased that we have been able to encourage others to speak straight and honest about this issue and to stand up for them, not to decide on different material and other benefits or on issues of distribution or consent, which are very important for Europe or even for the future of sovereign nation states. So we must continue to stick to the position that whoever wants to really address this issue, who says that we should defend ourselves, and let them protect themselves so that they do not have such a problem. And indeed, it is the manifestation of solidarity in border protection and, I say, in the form of assistance in remote countries, that can lead to results, first and foremost, on this issue. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-28-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the immediate questions. It's 14 hours and 24 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for a question to be asked or has made use of the possibility to ask a question, this item will not be discussed. Our agendas for today are over. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-191	Mr President, Dear House, Now, when we begin the hour of speeches after the agenda, my colleagues, who are unfortunately in favour of the government, will pick up and leave the room, but without counting the chairman and the notaries, there is still a fellow Fidesz Member in the Chamber, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who can answer what he has said if he wants. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Obviously, the answer would be to those voters who otherwise pay us to work in Parliament, not only on the condition of questions, but also on the basis of answers. A much earlier quote by Prime Minister today, a sentence from well before 2010, which says that weak forints can only be wanted by weak people, and that it has not really been possible to give a meaningful answer to the pro-government majority that if they had been in full rebellion at a rate of 260 forints, otherwise because of the continuous, conscious, systematic weakening of the forint, and that they would have seen the solution of the situation in the change of government; now that they themselves have allowed the exchange rate of the forint to rise above 360 forints since 2010, why they would not do anything. In fact, as a chimbo of cowardice, one of the Fidesz State Secretarys did not say that they could not do anything with the Hungarian National Bank, since the intervention of the Hungarian National Bank could help the situation. The fact is that the head of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank and its management were able to intervene in 2016, for example, because before that, this Parliament made a legislative amendment that broadened its toolbox in this case. As far as I know, there is a very strong majority of Fidesz-KDNPs in this Parliament, so if you want to give the Hungarian National Bank a gun, a steed and a bullet to protect the exchange rate of the forint, then here is the majority of governments that could vote for this. Why didn't you vote for it? Because, without exaggerating, this colonial government is trying to favour those from whom it derives its power rather than the Hungarian people, and it is also trying to repay them for the maintenance of its power, namely the multi-networks that untaxedly carry thousands of billions of people out of our country every year and enjoy amazing, unilateral, unrealistic advantages. No one else is good for weak Hungarian forints than the exporting multinationals who come here, with a weak forint exchange rate, should give less of their euro to the Hungarians' humiliatingly cheap wages. Their euros must be spent less in addition to weak Hungarian forints for the construction of the production line and the construction of the warehouse or plant unit. However, when the goods produced are removed from Hungary, we say that they are much easier to operate abroad because of the weak forint, and because of the inevitability of paying taxes, these companies enjoy a modern-day Canaan in Hungary. On the other hand, Hungarian citizens are obliged to pay the price of the weak forints, built into the price of all kinds of imported products, and a bumish, though quite unprepared, secretary of state said that yes, then there is no need to buy imported food, all Hungarians may not buy Hungarian bananas, but bread and basic vegetables and fruits are. The fact is that this uninformed secretary of state, who has failed to comply with economic principles, forgets that the price of domestic products and products is also incredibly expensive at a low forint price, because perhaps the secretary of state, the fellow Members of the Fidesz, can't show us a company that doesn't have to buy, say, machinery, or, say, spraying equipment or the spraying material itself if you can't find it in Hungary; or software for his computer or bookkeeping. Each Hungarian company is exposed to the negative effects of the horriably weak forint exchange rate from micro-business to multi-party, and in this way a thousand-billion-dollar extra cost is incurred annually by Hungarian households, because Hungarian businesses are forced to build on the price of weak forints, and pass this on to consumers, Hungarian customers, who pay the price of all imported products, but partly based on the price of domestic products. [[14.30]] This thousand billion-dollar surplus is the special tax of Fidesz for Hungarian citizens. This is Fidesz-KDNP's message about how much it keeps Hungarian workers and Hungarian workers, and if we add that when we look at net average earnings, we have found only three countries across the European Union where average earnings are lower or as low, then we can see what Fidesz's chemically neoliberal economic policy picture and worldview holds Hungarian people to. I, on the other hand, will always be on the side of Hungarian people, Hungarian workers, together with our faction. This is all I can suggest to the majority of the government that we are honoured by their possible response. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. What's a man worth? Mr Tamás Sneider, former vice-president, asked to speak after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-193	Mr President, Dear House, This week is the World Retirement Day, when the problems, problems, quality of life and livelihoods of pensioners and pensioners are increasingly emerging. As I have said in many of my speeches, there are a number of problems to be solved in the area of pension policy, but the most acute problem is clearly the continuing impairment of pensions. The situation among older people is becoming increasingly serious as inflation, including food inflation for older people, is rising much faster than the rise in pensions, as well as the constant, continuous, annual increase or correction of pensions. The situation is becoming increasingly serious and it is clear that food prices are rising roughly twice as fast as the various pension increases and pension adjustments. The problem is so great that the gradual reimbursement of the 13th month's pension to be introduced cannot compensate for the decline in the real value of pensions. There are faint signs that the slowly waking Fidesz will finally notice this problem, but apparently they are still not taking it seriously enough, and they are not taking any really meaningful steps, such as the introduction of the Hungarian indexation, which would be based on the inflation of the retired consumer basket and the rise in real wages in the area of raising pensions. But let's look at another problem that Fidesz absolutely says no to. Let's see how much a man is worth, if he worked in difficult physical work or an unhealthy environment for 40 years, his joints, cartilage tissue, senses, and he's 55 to 58 years old. How much is a paramedic, fireman, policeman, driver, bricklayer, carpenter, health worker, social worker, and I can still tell you all the trades? What is the value of men whose one third is less than the retirement age, and who are worth it, the vast majority of those who are worth it can live for just a few months, for years, because we are in the worst place in Europe on the men's death list. The answer is clear: they are worthless to Fidesz because they do not want to hear about the retirement of men supported by trade unions after forty years of employment. You tell the paramedics, firefighters and other professions that boys, work until you're 50-55, save people, do the most sacrifice for low wages, because that's why you're gonna get the reward, that when you can't run down that ladder, you can't get a hundred-pound patient off the fourth floor, but you can't go to disability, you can go clean up a ditch as a community worker, and because of that, your pension will be so low that you won't make a living out of it. A young man wrote to me: "My dad can't leave with 45 years of work because he's only 62 years old. He's physically freaked out, my sick mom's the same, he's got a 36-year relationship. The extra four years he would have spent in the chemical industry were taken away. He's working with two cervical vertebrae at the age of 60, and he's still four years away from retirement. I've got letters like this coming to me. This is not how parties in Western Europe think about working people. The modern European public administration is trying to honor its employees. In several countries, men have been allowed to retire after 40 years of employment, and one of the best recent examples is Germany itself, which, regardless of gender, introduces minimum pensions for HUF 450 thousand after 35 years of employment. We know that this is a dream pension at home, but it's not about the measure, it's about the attitude. It's a socially sensitive, modern, conservative approach. I don't know if Hungary will ever get here, Fidesz will be able to take such steps, but if not, then who will force life to do so. Together with hundreds of thousands of my compatriots, we demand that early retirement be possible in Hungary and that men retire after 40 years of employment. This is our demand, this is what society demands, hundreds of thousands of people, finally comply with this people's will. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence képvi-szelő applied for a speech following the agenda entitled "The Danube Bend." Here you go. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me to briefly explain what really happened in my constituency, in the Danube bend, in the area of Börzsöny, Ipoly in recent months. At a time of crisis, when the Crown Virus crisis is followed by an economic crisis everywhere, not only in Europe but also worldwide, it is particularly important that a government not only has an attitude to squeeze, withdraw, reduce, but also to provide support for further expansion and strengthening. This was also the action plan for the protection of jobs, in which 140 companies in my constituency received job retention support, and, overall, with government support, more than 1745 jobs were maintained. This means that we have managed to provide safety for 1745 families even in such an uncertain time. This was done with hundreds of millions of forints of government support. It was also important in the defense that both from the corona virus base and from the Efficient Budapest programme, improvements and procurement of tools were made in the hospital as well. The total value of these, if I look at the last period, the last two years, is more than HUF 800 million, this is the value of new, modern, modern devices in the Vác hospital, and after the first wave of the epidemic, the two-storey trains were able to put on the market as well. This is a huge step forward, the first Hungarian train line, a railway line between Budapest and Vác, and the first two-storey train runs between Vác and Budapest in Hungary. One of Vác's biggest public sports development was the transfer of the Hope athletic track, which was fully supported by government support worth HUF 774 million. Similarly, the Lookout Centre for children who are in difficulty, unable to find employment, was created with two billion forints of state support and helps people who need a special level of education and then get to work. Course orientation, training and survey will take place both in this institution. Allow me to mention one more thing that affected the entire region. They were the summer Mahart relief flights that first started due to the fall of the mountain between Zebegény and Nagymaros, replacing the road and the railway, but they became so popular that they started all summer and spent more than 50,000 people until mid-August. We are glad that many people could learn more about the beauty of the Danube bend. [[14.40]] If I look at the individual settlements, we were very happy to hand over a renovated parish building for 35 million forints in Vámosmikola, which will also provide accommodation for 60 students for camping. We managed to create a sports locker room and a nursery in Sződ, Vácrátó was won at the, and between Vác and Verőce, the renovation of the bike road was nearing its end, but we were able to create a new gym for firefighters from the donation. A new school's construction or expansion plans and plans were launched in Őrbotta, Sződön, Kismaros and Vácduka. Nagymaros received state support for the preparation of a type A gym, and Rings to build a Dragonfly camera system from 40 million forints to improve public safety. Zebegény receives HUF 900 million state aid for tourism development, which will also serve the comfort of residents. The renovations of the small railway have been renewed from several directions, there are three small trains in Börzsöny, of which two are currently undergoing renovation. Between Ipolydamásd and Letkés, a bicycle route of EUR 1.7 million is built, in Kishnémedi a mini-cradle is built from HUF 60 million, in kindergarten yard and playground competition, five settlements won HUF 23 million: Acsa, Letkés, Penc, Bishophatvan and Vámosmikola. Three settlements won HUF 71 million for local government-owned community space: Csörg, Galgagyörk, Vácduka, church community space and church community programs, over HUF 40 million was won by Sződliget, Verőce, Penc and Vácduka. Kóspállag, Letkés, Rád and Sződ received 10 million HUF state aid for the renovation of the walkway, three municipalities successfully applied for public land maintenance machines worth 43 million HUF: Ipolydamásd, Püspökszilágy and Vácrátot. The renovation of medical clinics has already taken place at a high rate, and now Nagybörzsöny and Verőce followed with HUF 30-30 million, with a total of HUF 60 million. The purchase of medical supplies in six settlements comes from HUF 16 million: Kismaros, Kóspallag, Sződ, Váchartyán, Vácrátót and Vámosmikola. Local government institutions can be renovated from 25 and 30 million forints in Achan and Szokolyán, interior roads and sidewalks Kemence won HUF 18 and Őrbottyán 20 million forints, and 19 settlements with social firewood support can provide support to those who are most socially deprived with government support from HUF 20 million. It is a special pleasure that Penc and Wanderer won 1.1 and 2.6 million forints in the Hungaricum competition to better show local values, so we can report on this pride, the pride of the Danube bend as much as possible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-09-28-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the group of the LMP, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the group, applied for a speech after the agenda: to commemorate Balázs Tóth. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It will not be easy to make this speech after the agenda, because I would like to briefly commemorate a loving father of three children, a loving husband, an infinitely honest, decent man. A man who, in the most noble sense of the word, was indeed a good man. And, obviously, I have to talk about an unimaginable tragedy, a huge loss, which was reported by his unimaginable, sudden and tragic departure last week. Last Thursday morning, we received the terrible news that Balázs Tóth, the local government representative of LMP, died tragically at the age of 43. Balázs Tóth has been here with us since the foundation of our political community, he has been a partner all along, he has been a representative of Kőbánya municipality for ten years. We can tell you that, and I think everyone who knows him humanly and has followed his career in public life saw that Balázs didn't go into public life for the purpose of creating a career for himself. Balázs wanted to do something for his country, he wanted to do something for his narrower country, for Stone Mine, and he did it all along during his ten-year career in public life, which was given him a short time in connection with this activity. We know perfectly well that Balázs was an infinitely modest, quiet man, a man who found the word with everyone, a man who considered everyone to be a partner when it came to matters, a man who was willing to cooperate with everyone, and was therefore surrounded by infinite love and infinite respect, and was able to build this community very successfully, which was necessary to achieve meaningful results in these local cases. In many important cases, he represented his narrower country, we can even talk about action to reduce the noise burden caused by the airport, but we can talk about the fact that he has done a great deal to save the hard-working, difficult-to-put foreign exchange credentials and help them. But Balázs expressed his national commitment to national traditions. After all, not so long ago, we contacted András Schiffer, the first group leader of the LMP, and asked him to help us with the work that is extremely important, and this year, too, we can say symbolic work, that to qualify the site of medieval Parliaments as a national memorial place in the Royal Hill of Rákos Creek, we can make a motion, which was a proposal from civilians, patriots. Balázs immediately offered his help on this, too, and he took an intelligent approach to this issue, and he did everything in his power to ensure that this initiative could also be successful. I think that the most accurate feedback about his personality and his career in public life may be the many feedback and sincere shock that his death caused, regardless of which side of public life, on which political side, everyone spoke in the voice of the greatest respect and the most sincere shock about the loss of society, Kőbány, by leaving Balázs Tóth with such a tragic suddenness, so young, at 43 years of age. I thought it important to emphasise this about this great man: to remember the man here in the Hungarian Parliament in a speech after a short agenda, and to express our deepest sympathy to the children of Balázs Tóth and to Balázs Tóth's wife and family from here, among the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. And I can promise you, as a member of the LMP community, that we will preserve the memory of Balázs Tóth. God rest your soul, Balázs.
u2020-09-28-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I think it's worthy of four or five seconds of silence to remember Balázs Tóth. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased with a few seconds of silence.]] Thank you very much. Let's get back to work. Mr Bence Tordai would be speaking after the agenda, but unfortunately he is not present, so his immediate question is considered to be withdrawn... or his statement after the agenda should be considered withdrawn. This death has been a bit confusing for me, too. Thank you. Ms Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a speech on the agenda entitled "The margin of an award." Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-09-28-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is not easy to say after the speech by Mr László Keresztes after the agenda, because he spoke about the everyday hero of our time, who we have lost, and I would like to say some thoughts about the serious, great character in our history and the award we have named about it and its continuation. As a female representative, it was unbelievable to realize that in 1920 Margit Slachta first entered the National Assembly a hundred years ago, our former colleague, social nurse, supporter of the fallen, creator of an amazing number of organizations, a special creature who could be the guardian of the fallen at the same time, and could at the same time be the strongest advocate in the National Assembly at that time. He was said to be the man in Parliament by the Members of Parliament at that time. When I realized that, during my term of office, there would be a hundred years of anniversary of one of our ancestors, it was natural that I wanted the Parliament to hold a ceremony, I wanted a statue, a plaque somewhere in Parliament or outside, but certainly near Parliament. And I started writing letters, looking for all the dignity I thought I could reach out to, and we're making a memento worthy of this wonderful creation. I am talking about a man who, under the socialist system, was tried to be called a fascist, who was silenced, whose way of life was really known only to those who were bookworms, and who were going through the depths of libraries, searching for this person, because they did everything in the communist system to silence him, who was forced to emigrate in 1948. And time passed, the 100th anniversary of April 14, and nothing happened. A responsible politician, who feels that we should remember an predecessor, can do nothing but use his own little tools to commemorate such a wonderful man. So I did this, and on 14 April I founded the award for the memory of Margit Slachta. Its name is that in the memory of Margit Slachta, because we all have the right to remember anyone, any of our ancestors, especially one of our ancestors, whose exemplary parliamentary and national assembly work can also guide us today. So I founded this award. And what was the purpose of the award, whom did we reward with this award? [[14.50]] A man who has been performing remarkable activities in the social sphere for many decades. Why was that supposed to happen? Because Margaret Slachta has supported the poor and the fallen all her life. His whole life was about that, he didn't start a family, he didn't have a child. She was God's creator's wife, mother, and wife, and every hour, every minute, all she wanted was to help all who had no other resources. Thus, this award was also awarded to a person with a high level of activity in the social sphere. I searched for many months because I did not want to honor a celebrity with this prize; for a long time I searched for a creature worthy of the memory of Margit Slachta. Fortunately, in the city of Csongrád, I found a woman in the living room of people with disabilities who, twenty years ago, had come up with the idea that she would create such an institution, even though neither the state nor the municipality had helped. With the support of churches and NGOs, he created the first such institution in 98-99 with the support of his small money and collections, and the lucky thing is that in 2010 the establishment of a day-to-day institution for people with disabilities became a state task, thus creating the institution on municipal grounds, and since then he has been one of the engines of this wonderful medium. I could see how people with disabilities can live happily ever after, how they can live without problems, how they can perform, and how they can only get the joy of their lives. This woman is a worthy person. I ask everyone to respect the heroes of our past, to respect the heroes of our present, and not to look for who we can find faults in or to be involved, but to know whose path we can add our own strength to. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-28-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Varju applied for a speech after the agenda titled Fidesz and Újpest Broker Scandal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to report to you, as a representative of the Parliamentary Constituency of Újpest and Angyalföld, on important issues concerning my district, so that we will sooner or later learn about its lessons and make them useful. But let's start by saying that the representative body of the Újpest municipality held a meeting last week. By the way, this could be done within the usual framework of the epidemic situation, and many important decisions were made to give the benefit to the people of Újpest. Important decisions have been made: In the area of Cabbage County, for example, making it a public park, expression, protecting otherwise green areas and trees. Our district has joined the 2021 round of the Bursa Hungarica higher education community scholarship system. It has been going on for quite some time now, and that is why I draw attention to the fact that it has important experiences. The district's climate strategy has been adopted. But there was also an amending budget, and here comes the black soup, as the government's restrictions on the municipalities inevitably have had the consequences of making all such fiscal amendments to the body of the municipality, unlike here in Parliament, where the government is doing and hiding them in different places. However, the most important decision was without doubt the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Why was that necessary? According to news, Zsolt Wintermantel, former mayor, concluded a consultancy contract with XLS Consulting Kft. in January 2018 for the investment in sovereign debt of the district's free funds. This was the case when the company initially did, but later did not have such a necessary license, as the Magyar Nemzeti Bank withdrew this in September 2018, but the contract was valid until October 2019. It is also a fact that the judicial expert requested by the notary concluded that the municipality also paid a commission on the return of sovereign debt that was already owned by the municipality before the conclusion of the contract, so, mutatis mutandis, those transactions had nothing to do with this trustee. According to the calculations of the municipality, XLS Consulting Kft. a total of HUF 133 million, i.e. HUF 133 million in a year, could be paid without legal basis. Of course, we do not wish to break a stick over anyone's head in advance, but if, in this sense, the committee of inquiry and the experts involved conclude, on the basis of the completed documents, that there has been an unjust enrichment, payment has been made, the municipality will take the necessary steps, as appropriate. Despite the fact that the government is doing everything it can to keep the districts and the capital, let's say, alone and in a difficult situation, however, the districts must also face skeletons... otherwise decisions made by former Fidesz-led municipalities. That is why we need a great deal of effort, and I am telling you this, also from the municipality of Újpest. I trust that the exchange of cooperation and experience will reveal as soon as possible exactly what has happened. I hope that the municipality has suffered as little damage as possible, but if this has happened, clearly the steps that will give us the opportunity to reduce this damage must be taken. That's what just happened on behalf of the Újpest municipality. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-09-28-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Rig Lajos has applied for an address after the agenda entitled 'Policy measures with the eyes of a health worker'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-28-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sum up the experience of the last few months in these remaining five minutes, which I have seen in relation to the epidemiological measures and the epidemiological procedures. I will also give you the positive side, as it was, but I will give you the comments and any criticisms on which it is not too late, I think it is better. 2020 is a special year for Hungarian people, healthcare and the economy. We are looking at health care in the first place. There was a reorganization in health care, an epidemiology hospital developed by the government, and covidos supply protocols were introduced in health institutions. The National Rescue Service and hospitals have had a huge burden, as they have conducted the tests, the care and observation of patients. We can say that the first wave, which the government says we are past, did not involve victims as great as all the other states in Europe. When we look at it and we look at communication, the second wave was adopted on 1 September, which, in my opinion, and in the opinion of other experts, is not the second wave, but the continuation of the first wave. The number of tests decreased in the summer, so we didn't see any positive covid results, but as the 1st of September came in, a thousand suddenly jumped. So the virus was released in the summer, I think, and this number of patients around 1,000 is on a daily basis; just as it is rising, unfortunately, we have to say, the number of patients breathed and the number of deaths. So the thesis that the Prime Minister said, unfortunately, is that no one is left unattended, and that hospital capacity is almost unlimited, unfortunately this thesis has been decided. [[15.00]] Why did he fall? Over the past few weeks, in the last few days, several hospital directors have asked the government for help because they have human resources issues. If you recall, I told you a few months ago that we could buy a ventilator, we could get a virus filter if there was no specialist to operate these machines. The Prime Minister went to a hospital and spoke to a specialist. He asked me if there were enough ventilators. The specialist said there's still a ventilator, only a technician, which means there's no ICU to operate it. If you look at it, there are nearly 2,000 specialist assistants in our country who can help the patients who are being ventilated in this way, and this cannot be replaced by a crash course. When the outbreak broke out, they tried to retrain doctors online to breathe. Please, Professor Money is teaching the mechanics of respiratory therapy to doctors for two years. An intensive therapy assistant is trained for a minimum of one year, and then comes his five-year maintenance exams. In order to operate this system, we really need to regroup workers to places where they are needed. But let's see which finger we bite. If I assume that the Veszprém County Hospital will lose three intensive therapy assistants, then two intensive therapy assistants will be taken from the papal hospital, then the number of surgeries planned there will be drastically reduced, and unfortunately, this could lead to, say, death if necessary. What's the solution to this? The reason no one thought about it was that unfortunately, the only way to maintain this healthcare system is if those doctors, those professionals, help out in a different workplace, in a second job, part-time job. It's a very long process. Young people who have left this healthcare system and gone abroad to work must be lured back and valued. A health expression gives the answer to how to save this health care. A doctor said to me, "Ludwig, until we tell the diagnosis of a disease, we won't be able to treat it." It must be said that this health system, unfortunately, is not capable of the capacity the Prime Minister has adopted. It doesn't have enough human resources, it doesn't have enough money, it might have a gun, but there's no one to control the weapon against the virus. My request right now is, first of all, as an opposition representative... it is not a coward who speaks the truth and says that there is a problem and help. The responsible decision is to speak the truth in a war against such a virus and to ask for help from either volunteers or health workers. Thank you for listening, and thank you for your patience, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-28-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on Monday 5 October 2020. I thank you all for your work today, and I wish you all a good evening. The meeting's closed.
