u2020-03-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the information provided earlier by the Director-General, only the next speaker and the following two speakers should be present in the Chamber during the day. Discussions may be followed by the internal television mediation system for all, the names of the following three Members who have been asked to speak will be presented by the chair of the meeting at the end of each speech. If you wish to leave the meeting room, first those sitting on the edge in the rear sectors, then those in the middle and then in the front rows leave the room starting from the edge of the sectors, keeping a good distance between them. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, the representative of the Dialogue, Mr Tamás Mellár, came forward with the title: "On Current Affairs." Here you go.
u2020-03-24-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Now, when we are in the midst of a coronal virus epidemic, obviously the first word and the first sentence must be the saving of human lives, and the forces must be essentially concentrated there, since there is nothing more important. Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister's report, in which he tried to reassure us that there is sufficient quantity of everything, there is sufficient protective mask, gloves, test material and human material. Unfortunately, from where I come from, from Baranya, where there's currently 20 centimeters of snow, that's not what it looks like. You can see that there is a shortage of everything. My doctor friends, friends, colleagues report that there is neither quantitatively nor qualitatively enough protective equipment, there is a great deal of overload, and there is a great deal of fear among doctors, so I think there is still something more to be done in this area. But that is not why I wanted to speak, but rather to say a few words about the economy, because a side effect of the epidemic, a very powerful side effect, is that a major global economic crisis is developing, a crisis of the size of the crisis in 2008. We do not know much about this crisis yet, because this is going to be a whole new type of crisis, but we certainly know that for Hungary there will be serious consequences, since Hungary is a small open country, a small open economy, which is very vulnerable. Just think that 80% of our exports are produced by foreign ownership companies, and a significant part of them are in the automotive industry that is most economically sensitive. So I think we have something to worry about. It is therefore of particular importance that the government prepares an economic policy programme, what crisis management programme it will present. The measures published last week and yesterday can basically be said, as my colleagues have already said, that they can be approved, they are good steps in the right direction, but unfortunately they are very few. Why, I'm trying to reflect on that right now. Firstly, because it is not enough to focus only on the sectors directly affected by the crisis, so tourism, catering, individual services, because the crisis is spreading as well as the virus through economic relations, therefore the whole economy is in danger. Consequently, a general crisis management programme should be put in place and one should be put in place. Secondly, it is not enough to focus only on the supply side, only to relieve the burden on producers, because demand shortages will be a major problem. If there is not enough demand, there is no reduction in the tax burden, but there is a credit moratorium, because if businesses do not have enough revenue, they will not be able to operate. There is therefore also a need for significant demand-side stimulus and economic recovery. Thirdly, it is also very important that the crisis does not strike citizens equally. Richer ones get through difficult days more easily because they have reserves. For the poorer, however, this crisis will cause and cause a lot of suffering, so it is absolutely necessary to introduce social measures, to introduce a social package, to increase family allowances, to increase unemployment benefit and similar things, which have already been mentioned by my fellow Members in the MSZP and dialogue. If the Orbán government wants to be not only the government of 3 million wealthy people, but the six and a half million less affluent Hungarians, it will also find a way to launch a powerful social package. Finally, I think that it is very important to learn from past traditions and not do the same thing again, because Hungary suffered the greatest losses of European countries between 2009 and 12 after the 2008 crisis as a result of the crisis. I think we shouldn't make that mistake again. And before you talk about the crime of Bajnai and Gyurcsány [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I draw attention to the fact that in 2011 and 2012, the Prime Minister was already a Fidesz government, and the Prime Minister was called Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-2	Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán, I would like to inform you that the speaker before the next agenda will be Antal Csárdi, Member LMP, and Mrs Anett Bősz, DK, who will follow. Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2020-03-24-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to start by thanking you. We would like to thank you all very much, whether you are a health worker or a representative of law enforcement agencies, or anyone else who is working in the fight against the epidemic, for the strained and devoted work that you have done these days, in weeks, and will continue to do in the next period. Mr President, in essence, the speech was about the economic consequences of the epidemic, which are undoubtedly existing and extremely serious. Allow me to briefly inform you of the measures that we have taken, and it can be said that it is possible to make an international comparison at a speed. It is true that it was said from your mouth that it was not enough, but we still believe that there is no reason to be ashamed. On the one hand, the obligation to pay capital and interest on loans concluded by private individuals and businesses by 18 March will be suspended until the end of the year. Short-term business loans will also be extended until 30 June. These measures are all designed to ensure liquidity for businesses and, in this case, for individuals in still functioning sectors of the economy, this is the most important thing to maintain operation. We have also maximised the APR for newly borrowed consumption loans, so that it is not possible to profit from this serious epidemiological situation. [[9.10]] The obligation to pay contributions will be released in full until 30 June in a defined economic context. Discounts were granted both on the employer's and on the employee's side. This concerns the very sectors that the Member mentioned. We are constantly looking at which sectors the epidemic will make impossible or very difficult, and we are preparing for these sectors with targeted measures. We also make work rules flexible. Our aim is to enable as many people as possible to stay in the labour market to keep their jobs, because we believe that this is much more effective both from a social and economic policy point of view than to burden the social care system with these people. After that, we also announced a second economic and job protection action plan. We have granted tax exemptions to 81,000 small businesses until 30 June. This round-up, which I told you about earlier: we gave an extension to the Cata tax debts generated before 1 March; Hungary's media service providers will be exempted in connection with tourism and catering due to the loss of advertising revenues. In consultation with the Executive Chamber, evictions and seizures will be suspended; regulations have already been issued. Tax enforcement is also suspended; and economic protection is also linked to family policy, so we are extending the rights of children, children and children during the end of the emergency. These measures help a lot of people. We are constantly looking at the situation and we are ready to take further action. Our problem is two-way. From you, first and foremost, there are proposals for action that cannot be taken seriously when talking to ourselves. Your fellow Members are talking about the introduction of basic income. However, they leave in a positive light that, according to all your documents in this regard, these would be unconditional basic incomes, so that is not targeted assistance for the basic income, but for you, and for me. I think we're gonna... [[To intervene:]] Well, you're in that faction, Congressman, that's just the way politics is, so even the intellectuals can't help themselves. So, unfortunately, such irresponsible measures cannot be supported by the government, because that would not help those who need them in this time of distress, but those who do not otherwise need it. We can't just go past yesterday's developments. All we wanted to ask was for the government to know what to do, the government to act in this emergency, and there was only one thing we wanted to ask: to support the extension of the measures taken in the event of an emergency. However, you have once again given a hypocritical and hypocrite attitude to patalism and have not contributed to the extension of the scope of these measures. We regret that this has happened, but we will fight the health and economic effects of this epidemic without you. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-24-4	Thank you very much. Congressman Antal Csárdi is next. I would like to inform you that he is being followed by representatives of Anett Vősz and Bertalan Tóth. Congressman Csárdi, the representative of the LMP will talk about current affairs. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, the first word is thanks. Thank you to health care workers, doctors and nurses, but I also have to thank volunteers who help and assist in the tasks of the local government, because without them, these tasks would not be complete, can be achieved in good quality. And, yes, I would also like to thank the mayors, who are working hard to deal with the situation and provide the best possible quality of service for the people who live there. Therefore allow me to thank Krisztina Baranyi, Péter Szentgyörgyvölgyi, Márta V. Naszályi and András Pikó as members of the Parliament of Belváros. But at the same time, when we are talking about these tasks, and I thank those involved, we cannot simply go past the difficulties that government propaganda, let us say, is trying to keep quiet. Because it sounds very nice to have a million and a half surgical masks coming in, according to Prime Minister's information, or in stock, but we know that these surgical masks do not provide protection against infection. These surgical masks will help if, do not give God, the doctor would be infected. So whoever wears this mask can slightly hinder the distribution of it. We know very well that effective protection is provided by masks with FFP ratings. We also know from Prime Minister that yesterday's data shows that there are 129 thousand in stock, but there is virtually no way for the settlements, because they are trying to bring them to war for intensive care. 129 grand is a big deal, and I think it's worth thinking about what this 129 grand means. 129 thousand nationwide, it's true to say that only XI. They were able to order 50,000 certified masks in the district. And I think it is worth stopping here for a moment to see why these masks that provide real protection are needed for the settlements. I mean, we're here to talk about assignments. Here, among the tasks of the municipalities, care for the elderly is a priority, and I think that there is no debate between us about how important this is. But I think that this is also extremely important in terms of not infecting them, or, obviously, those volunteers, the general practitioners who meet patients, the elderly, should not spread the infection back or forth. This can't be solved with surgical masks. We have listened to a lot in the last cycle or cycles about our extremely strong economic partner China. Currently, one and a half million certified masks are produced daily in China. I'm just stunned to see why we couldn't get qualified masks from our extremely friendly economic partner. Why are we trying to pretend that surgical masks provide any protection against the spread of the virus? However, in addition to the care of the elderly, care for those placed in official quarantine is also present, where the risk of infection is a priority. I think we owe it to those involved in defence to provide them with decent means. I therefore believe that the government's only task would be to provide these tools, and then we can, in cooperation with settlements, act effectively against the spread of the virus. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Rétvári reflects, please.
u2020-03-24-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, in such an emergency, everyone has their own responsibility, the government has it, and the opposition has it. [[9.20]] I am ready to tell you what measures the government, the operational tribe, is taking, but let me also ask whether the opposition is acting responsibly or irresponsiblely during this period. As you have mentioned, in various medical warehouses in Hungary, the Health Stock Management Institute has a wide range of protective equipment: one-and-a-half million medical masks, you mentioned special masks, of which there are over one hundred thousand, 129 thousand pieces, 20 million pairs of rubber gloves, 170 thousand protective suits, and 2560 respirators are available in hospitals. In addition, the ordering stock is very high, which Hungary ordered, but since we are trying to talk about this issue responsibly, we are telling you the numbers, the quantities that can be found specifically in the stores of the State Healthcare Services Centre or in hospitals or anywhere else in Hungary. You have also been throwing numbers here, honourable Member, that someone has ordered a quantity somewhere, but what we have seen in the last few weeks is that Hungary has also ordered a number of devices that have finally stopped in ports or elsewhere and have not arrived, which is why we are talking only about what is here; and you are talking about numbers that have been ordered by someone. You know, there are a lot of people who are throwing stuff around that they're going to deliver something, or they're going to start manufacturing something, and when it's done, they're going to send it to Hungary, but we can't provide healthcare workers with what's here today or tomorrow. Our aim is therefore to provide all health workers with the possibility of working safely, on the one hand by means of physical means, since everyone in an ambulance, when in contact with a person potentially infected with a coronal virus, receives protective equipment, and then, in the hospital, according to the decision of the operational tribe and previous medical instructions, also has these protective equipment, and we constantly replace them, from week to week, as they run out, we replace them in hospitals. Yesterday we received airplanes from China, and we keep waiting every day for shipments that make up for weight loss. We are also trying to produce these at home: state-owned companies with disabilities have switched to manufacturing protective masks, other companies have switched to this, and Maltese Love Service has switched to this, precisely because, honourable Member, everyone in the world today wants to buy protective masks, protective suits and ventilators, which is why it is much harder to obtain when every country is looking for this, as opposed to what was previously, say, a disaster when it came up in just one country. That's why we need to produce this ourselves, and we want to run it from 25 grand to 80,000 this week. We hope that this will succeed, honourable Member. As I said earlier, many decisions have been made regarding social institutions and health institutions about how to combat coronal virus infection, so as not to infect other patients, infect health care workers, or infect people with whom they meet. You know very well that the safest way to protect yourself from spreading this epidemic to an unmanageable extent is to see this from the example of other countries, unfortunately, if there is as little contact between people and people as possible, because then people are less infected. That is why universities and school visits were banned, and therefore the events were banned, so the clubs were closed, so it is not possible to go to restaurants after 3 p.m. and the measures taken by the government in an emergency could still be listed. These are very important for the prevention of the disease. What you said is also important from the point of view of defense, so I have shown that the government has taken countless steps to ensure that all health workers have the necessary protective equipment. But it is equally important that we take these preventive measures, and it would have been good to have seen the cooperation of the opposition here in Parliament yesterday, honourable Member. We can see in the news what extraordinary measures there are around the world, and what we can see is that the Hungarian opposition, acting irresponsiblely, does not contribute to making a decision here in Parliament today to maintain the scope of these emergency measures. This is a huge irresponsible thing on the part of the opposition, and it is also a bad example for people who defend themselves against the Crown Virus in their everyday lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-8	Congresswoman Anett is next. I would like to inform you that after that, Mr Bertalan Tóth will come and speak to Congressman Brenner Koloman. Congresswoman Bősz Anett, representative of DK: She will address the issue of tests and protective equipment. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, please allow me to say a few words about yesterday, because the opposition said at the seven-party meeting that if the government is willing to compromise and give the law a temporal effect, the opposition is prepared to grant a four-fifth mandate, but the government has categorically rejected it. I would like to ask you a question now, my fellow Members of the Government. If you refer to the law as not setting a deadline because we do not know how long the epidemic will last, then why, for example, is there a time limit for the waiver of the obligation to pay contributions? June 30th. Why is there a time limit for a moratorium on credit repayments? December 31st. You and we are aware that there would have been a solution for Parliament to extend the mandate given to the government up to 15 days online, thus maintaining the scope of the law and the scope of the regulations for as long as the epidemic situation requires. The employees of the Parliamentary Office were otherwise given home access, and the House solved technical access in such a way that they had access to the House's system only at the cost of crime. In this way, therefore, Parliament's vote online could have been resolved. We ourselves have tabled a legislative amendment to the work at home, but there have been a number of amendments from the opposition benches that would have allowed Parliament to work from a distance. I would like to draw attention to the fact that nowhere in Europe, my fellow members of the Government... because they rightly referred to the fact that extraordinary measures have been taken by our fellow Europeans, and it is true that this is what is needed in Hungary, and I would stress that the opposition provides the government with maximum support both in dealing with the economic consequences and in combating the epidemic, and we are ready to work for this ourselves. We couldn't vote for you yesterday because of the lack of time limits of the delegation law, we couldn't deviate from the house rules. Yesterday, you could have proved that you were taking the situation seriously and that you were ready to agree with the opposition, you should have accepted one time limit: 15, 30, 60 days, or even you could have told me. They weren't ready. But it has also been demonstrated that not only the public-law situation but also the epidemiological situation is not taken seriously, because one of our fellow Members, leaving the quarantine required for him, was sitting here with us in this Chamber. To discuss the epidemiological situation, too, because when I made the request for my speech this morning, I had not yet heard your yesterday's information about the arrival of protective equipment or masks, but we must not forget that the distribution of them as soon as possible beyond the welcome arrival of tens of thousands of protective masks and protective equipment in our country is also an extremely important task. Please report where we are, as the Hungarian Medical Chamber continues to receive the cry for help that certain health care institutions are now forced to work fully without a mask or effective protective mask or protective equipment. Italy's drama was largely dependent on the lack of adequate protective equipment for health workers at the incubation stage, so health workers became the primary distributors of the epidemic. And we must not forget that the vast majority of healthcare workers are women, some of whom are single mothers. Many of them are not now in a position to supervise their children at home, since they serve in health institutions. If their children now go to the emergency room, the kindergartens, the schools, they may be the primary distributors of the epidemic, which is why they should have taken the lack of adequate protective equipment seriously before. [[9.30]] The Prime Minister also said yesterday that the majority of governments are 133 of the bravest people in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that our bravest are serving in our health facilities today, without proper protective equipment. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-24-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Völner reflects. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We heard a very interesting discussion about why, yesterday, opposition parties did not give the votes they needed for the four fifth mandate to derogate from the house rule. We all know that this was a false debate in a sense, after the responsibility would have been borne by the government even if this law had been passed today, which would have granted the government powers or strengthened the measures so far. It was said that trust was lacking and that the government was not compromised. The other textual proposals have also been included in the draft law during the seven-party discussions on necessity and proportionality, and the Btk. We have also expressed our willingness to discuss it. You insisted on this condition. Why did this happen? Several deadlines have been mentioned as to what could be applied and what could not be applied. First of all, if we are based on the current situation, we can see that Parliament is meeting. Parliament will meet as long as the epidemiological situation allows. Parliament's powers of control continue to exist, and the deadline is practically linked to the end of the epidemiological situation, so it has a fixed date. I will be very curious to know that when this day comes, hopefully as soon as possible, you will stand up on the other side, and when the government eliminates the emergency, and Parliament accepts the report on this matter, you will apologize for the alarm, dictatorship and hysteria that you have been doing in the last few days, which you have done on the previous day, and what seems to be not quiet today, and what you are doing abroad, because we will not be silent about the part of your parties in the European Parliament and elsewhere.... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Yes, you can mention George Soros because they're practically in the same choir. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: The migrant is still missing!]] You may not be on his payroll yet, but regardless, they joined the same choir. Maybe they'd like to belong there, I don't know. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]] I'm not accusing you of that. If they're doing this for free, and they're suckers, I have to say, added to this thing. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]] So to work the Parliament the Parliament will work. The law itself states that, even if Parliament does not meet, the reporting obligation that the government is carrying out in the event of a meeting will be implemented by providing information to the President of Parliament and the leaders of the parliamentary political groups. So that's it: this relationship will be a living, real thing, whether you vote for it or not, whether you agree to vote sooner or not. As regards the epidemiological situation, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári also said that we are talking specifically about the stocks that are available. You can also see, as the Prime Minister announced yesterday, that first of all this will be given to health institutions, especially those intensive departments where these patients are being treated, where the lives of these patients will be saved, where they will be taken care of. It is also apparent that, in line with the current state of the epidemiological situation, these figures appear to be sufficient and must, of course, be allocated appropriately. But what is very encouraging is that, in addition to the 1 million 200,000 masks that have been said here, or the 120,000 special masks that are needed in intensive care or even in hospitals because of the epidemiological situation, shipments arrive, the Prime Minister has announced that about 3 million masks are coming, which I think can be regarded as a significant quantity. It also shows that the negotiations are ongoing, so we've tied up additional shipments, there will be no supply disruption, and there will be virtually 100,000 tests on the way, and plus 86 new machines will be connected to the respirator park that is currently available. Yesterday, we were able to discuss different numbers, provide about 2,600 patients on these machines, and I really hope that everyone will get the care they need. And the epidemiological measures, I think we all agree here in Parliament, are designed to ensure that this curve can be flattened in such a way that there are not as many patients at the same time that Hungarian health care cannot provide. In this respect, if we look at our numbers compared to other countries, we are doing well, and I hope that we will continue to do so in the future. We also ask you to support this work, recognising the work of all those who are doing everything in their power to ensure that the lives of Hungarian people are not put at risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for Mr. Bertalan Tóth to take over. I would like to inform you that Congressman Brenner Koloman is following him, and then Congressman Miklós Soltés is coming. It is now up to the head of the group of the MSZP, Mr Bertalan Tóth, to address the issue of the topic: "On current affairs." Here you go.
u2020-03-24-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the stormy day yesterday, I think we need to clarify a few things, especially in the light of the fact that Fidesz MEPs, the leader of the faction, on the Facebook page, have started to list again. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]] And they're undermining opposition representatives after yesterday. [[Dr. Pál Völner: If there is a reason! Are you hiding it?]] It is all the more worthwhile to clarify a few things that the Secretary of State has just said here. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Take responsibility for your decision.]] First and foremost, all Members of the parliamentary opposition would have voted in favour of the four fifth and would have voted in favour of this law if it had been included that government regulations in times of emergency were 90 days in force and could be extended. If this one sentence had been included, the opposition representatives would have voted unanimously and, for the first time in ten years, in a case of this magnitude, the Parliament would have given the Government of Hungary unanimous confidence. The second thing we need to clarify is that we asked the Prime Minister for a gesture, and we asked you for a gesture not only for ourselves, but for the millions of opposition voters who do not trust the government now, and you must judge and process it after their ten-year government. For them, it would have been such a guarantee that we opposition representatives would have convinced them through our own channels that this deadline would not be abused by the government and would have received the confidence you asked for, but would not have been willing to do so. The third thing that needs to be clarified is that the emergency still exists. It is a lie if they claim that the opposition has not contributed to maintaining the emergency. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] After the emergency is decided by the government, it will also begin [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's regulated by the Fundamental Law!]] And now even from the end, so this Parliament has no say in this. It is about the scope of government regulations in the event of an emergency. The fourth is that the government can declare the government's decrees with the same content on the same day, so nothing will stop the scope of these government decrees. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only Parliament can extend it. It's in the Fundamental Law. Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] And what I would like to say here in relation to the functioning of Parliament: the parliamentary system is capable of turning to the electronic vote in Parliament, the conditions for this could be created, but you are also shutting down. Unfortunately, I was right when I assumed that you and the Prime Minister were not trying to defeat the virus, but us opposition representatives. I suggest you focus on dealing with the virus situation. And let's see what the opposition voters are afraid of. Let's look at the Fidesz mayors who are now taking advantage of the opportunity, the possibility of an emergency, and rewrite the budget, rewrite the organizational and operational regulations, terminate the committee, expand beyond the mandate given to them by the provision of an emergency. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] But there is the example, and this example is what scares the opposition voters. But let's look at the socialist mayor of Szombathely, who is now, at these moments, hours, starting to mail to the residents the protective masks that can slow down the spread of this epidemic, providing the doctors with tools. He orders these instruments from his own budget and, as mayor, does not abuse the authority he receives in the event of an emergency, but also involves Members, the Fidesz opposition representatives there, in the defence. [[9.40]] But speaking of obstruction, who has prevented the government from preparing the health system for this epidemic in the last 60 days? Who stopped protective equipment from getting to doctors and nurses in time? Who has prevented them from dealing with the lack of a GP in the last ten years, to solve this problem? Who stopped you from investing in health care instead of stadiums and luxury investments? Who stopped you from honoring health workers and paying them adequate wages? It was you who prevented it. We would have been willing to give confidence [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Time's up!]] You've run over our extended hand. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-14	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Dömötör will reflect. Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-24-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Your speech is nothing more than an ex post explanation of your decision yesterday. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! That's embarrassing.]] And the fact is that their attitude towards the epidemic is more than anything else shown yesterday, including the fact that they did not support it, so that we can decide today to extend the emergency emergency. The sadder thing is that not only did they not support the deviation from the house rules, but they generally do not support this proposal on the basis of their statements. And they're referring to two main reasons. One is that the government gets full power. It's unreal. If you have read the presentation, it is clearly stated that the special permissions concern the prevention, eradication of the epidemic and the elimination of adverse economic effects and consequences. Their second main point relates to the lack of time limits. What I can say is that no opposition representative, no pro-government politician, and no CDC expert can now tell us how long the situation will last, the fight we are in. And we cannot guarantee here that, at the stage of mass sickness, Parliament's decision-making can be maintained. And, honourable Member, we must also take into account that in such a situation, the ability to decide and act should remain. If you have already referred to the municipalities, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mayor Gergely Christmas has decided not to convene the Metropolitan Assembly and take decisions through regulations. Where are these types? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Dictatorship! Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] Worried comments and speeches, I would also like to ask the better Members, where are they? They didn't have a word. In the meantime, we do not dispute the right for each municipality to make the necessary decisions in order to save lives and to be able to save jobs. We are now seeing and hearing your proposals, we agree with some of them, another part of them has already been decided, but some of the economic proposals have a completely different philosophy compared to government measures. We feel that some of their proposals are already based on massive unemployment and want to expand the range of aids. Not to deny that many sectors are already in trouble, we want to avoid mass unemployment, not to take it as a basis, but to avoid it, so the current measures serve to keep as many jobs as possible. This is what the loan waiver serves, which also applies to private individuals and companies; this is what the employer's contribution relief serves in the most troubled sectors; this is what the flat-rate levy on kata is for 26 sectors, which affects more than 80,000 Hungarian small businesses. Besides, we also want Hungarian families in a difficult situation to get air, which is what the suspension of evictions, the suspension of tax collections serve, and this is also the extension of legal and legal rights. These decisions have already been made, Your Honour, but I can tell you that new ones are coming. As I understand it, you are also proposing a wave of wage increases. What I can tell you is that before we start a wage fight, let's protect the existing jobs first, that's the most important thing. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] You have also proposed the introduction of official prices. Here, too, I would like to draw attention to what the Prime Minister has already done yesterday, so that we can obtain a large part of the protective and medical equipment and equipment from abroad, and if the official price is lower than the price we can obtain them for abroad, then there is a danger that we will not be able to obtain them, we will not be able to obtain them. I would also like to point out to you that the negotiations with foreign actors have been successful, and yesterday there was a shipment full of equipment, and also today. Today we have 3 million masks, 100,000 tests and 86 respirators. To sum up, I would like to tell you and all the opposition parties that the government supports every proposal, every decision that serves either the protection of human lives or the protection of jobs. If you want to participate in the fight against the epidemic with suggestions and votes, then you have every opportunity, it is not too late to put yesterday's decision in parentheses. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-16	Thank you very much. Congressman Brenner Koloman is next. I would like to inform you that he will be followed by Congressman Miklós Soltész; then Mr János Halász will speak. Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik: How long does the government abuse their patience? He said his speech before the agenda, with a title. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, First of all, enough of the frivolity of the Fidesz government, and we demand the immediate introduction of the curfew, since let them finally admit that tomorrow's victims will be infected yesterday and today! Don't delay any longer, it matters every day, it has to be done today! [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how freedom comes to its grave in the midst of a clapping storm. I very much hope that next Monday, when we vote on the delegation law in this House, we will not have to be bitterly aware that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán Palpatine from this quote from the Star Wars universe. [[Csaba Dömör: István Szilárd Németh: What's wrong with this? Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] has received the time-limited authorisation that is not necessary to resolve the epidemiological emergency. Anyway, let's paddle a little bit to more popular waters. Let's also recall a little bit of science. I do not know if you know, my fellow Members, who was Professor Robert Brósz? [[István Szilárd Németh: Ooh!]] I'll tell you this: Viktor Orbán is a professor of Roman law for a young lawyer. He could have learned it if he had learned it, and he wasn't reading Folksport with Soros Scholarship in Oxford, which was sent out to him by the father of a friend of mine, that even in Roman times, the dictatorship had a time limit. Ladies and gentlemen, No one is arguing, in the event of an emergency, there is a need for certain officials leading to a mandate that Jobbik, as a national party, would support for a fixed period of time. [[Miklós Soltész: You are left-wing commies! Communists!]] At the same time, as a civil, decent conservative force, it is our duty to draw attention to the judgment of this House and of history that this cannot be voted by a decent civic conservative force, because it is against the European culture, which is based on Christianity and Greek-Romanian culture. And why is there no trust in you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz? I think the best example of this is the behavior they've been doing since yesterday's vote. I would like to quote, first of all, Mr Máté Kocsis Fideszes, who has already been mentioned today by my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth, who deserves the five-star Pharisee Prize of the MIÉP youth department because of his comment yesterday, after which they will continue to incite opposition representatives to what they have been doing for ten years without interruption. Aren't you ashamed? I'm serious. You want to capitalize on people's lives? Shame on you! And they are going to mop up the mandate that this House could vote for this afternoon, if the resolution proposed by Jobbik's representatives is adopted, so I myself, because it should be in a proposal for a resolution to be given the mandate for 90 days, and then the problem is solved, which, by the way, after being governed by two thirds of the government for ten years, I think it is your responsibility to prepare for this emergency. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A great responsibility in all countries of the world!]] [[9.50]] But your priorities, we know exactly, are called the sympathizers of Lőrinc Mészáros, son-in-law Tiborcz, ex Rogán Cecília and Comrade Borkai. [[István Szilárd Németh: Pathetic!]] [[István Szilárd Németh: Pathetic!]] to use the elegant expression of Béla Czakó; then anyone who understands will understand (István Németh Szilárd: Pathetic!) Who doesn't, who yells at him like Szilárd Németh. [[István Szilárd Németh: You are pathetic!]] Let's keep moving. The solution to this epidemic... and, by the way, we hope that on Monday, there will indeed be 133 brave fellow Members with fidesz courage who say no to this Ermächtigungsgesetz. In particular, I would like to draw attention to those who voted in favour of the Decision of 2018 in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which expressly prohibits such authorisation. In addition, I specifically call on the German minority representative Ritter Imre, sehr geehrter Herr Abgeordneter Ritter, Liebe Imre, Du kannst diesem Schandgesetz auch wegen der deutschen Geschichte nie und nimmer zustimmen! I ask all my decent fellow citizens and conservative members, and I know that there are some of them in your ranks, no matter how much they dare not admit it now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Are you threatening me? Are you threatening me?]] consider your decision well [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Threatening!]] Everyone will remember what they voted for. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: German threats in the Hungarian Parliament!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-24-18	On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán will reflect. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We agree on one thing. I agree with your last sentence, Congressman, that everyone will remember what happened in this House. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right!]] and that it was you who did not support the country in a time of distress and did not support the extension of the emergency [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Swim!]] It was you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] I agree, I agree, from a decade's perspective, everyone will remember this, and the Jobbik will go where it belongs, down in history. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Bence Rétvári: The Hungarian voice of Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] By the way, if you'll allow me, your speech was somewhat frivolous, which, I think, does not really suit this situation, but I have a job obligation to answer even the speeches that seem frivolous, so I would like to do so briefly, and I would like to address a question, a rhetorical question, on this matter to you. If such radical action is required, why do they not support the special legal order that is necessary to take such action? It's a complete contradiction. There's a complete contradiction. The steps you have mentioned here could not be taken, and those measures could not have been taken. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Today we vote for 90 days!]] which we have brought so far in order to reduce the health effects of the epidemic. All of these could not have been done if there was no emergency declared by the Government and the Parliament did not contribute to the extension of the scope of the emergency or of the measures taken during the emergency. You are absolutely right that in this situation, in times of distress, the government has the responsibility. [[A sneeze from the pro-government benches. Voices from the opposition benches, among them: Uh-oh!]] You have to organize the defense, you have to group resources, you have to turn the country into a new model of operation. We've done that in the last few weeks. You were supposed to press the button that you needed yesterday. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: No, no! Not without a time limit!]] that these legal measures, which we have taken so far and that we can provide the legal basis for the measures. That's the only thing you should have done. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] And by the way, today could have gone on just like yesterday. What you've done now, what you've done, what you've done, what you've not voted for, is one thing: uncertainty. I would like to ask Professor Brósz that I am sorry that I cannot do this, but it would be interesting to hear his answer as to what happens to those who do nothing but cause legal uncertainty in times of distress but hinder protection. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Today, vote in favour of the resolution proposal and there is no legal uncertainty.]] So what happens? I wonder what the professor would say to that, because you have contributed to reducing the health and economic impact of the control of the coronal virus with one single thing, I say in a large quote: a non-voting. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Pathetic!]] One non-voting. Speaking of lawyers, I also told the Head of the Group yesterday that they have basic text understanding problems. Basic text understanding problems! They didn't read the proposal! They did not read the Fundamental Law on the basis of which the proposal was made. If these two had been done, it would have been very clear. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] then it is quite clear that the mandate can be decided by the Parliament at any time. The Parliament may decide to revoke the mandate at any time. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Unfair!]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Unfair!]] You have one problem. They have a problem (Dr. Brenner Koloman: Unfair!) Yes, Congressman, your problem is that this right belongs to the majority of Parliament and not to the opposition of the dwarf. But please, this is the case in every democracy of the rule of law. The Parliament's decision can be made by the majority of Parliament. Your problem is that you can't blackmail the government against the coronal virus, there's no such thing as public law. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they wanted him in a blackmail position. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Unbelievable!]] That's what yesterday's vote was about. So, Congressman, if you have read the proposal, you will be able to do so in the Hungarian Gazette, because next week we will adopt this proposal, and you will see that the mandate is limited, proportionate, necessary, targeted, based on a constitution, and the Constitutional Court will monitor it. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We see at Lőrinc Mészáros what proportionality means!]] Your petty political decision has led to one thing: in times of greatest distress, it has caused legal uncertainty for days. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: This is inciting! That's inciting!]] I congratulate you on this decision. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Bravo! Applause in the same place.]]
u2020-03-24-20	Thank you very much. Congressman Miklós Soltész is next. I would like to inform you that he is followed by Congressman János Halász. Congressman Miklós Soltész, representative of KDNP, will be following: å Sacrific stand for the people with the title Slachta Margitra. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The parliamentary elections of 1920 a hundred years ago had more interesting and still strong messages, so the occupied parts of the country were able to hold the elections only after the withdrawal of foreign troops, for example, in the summer of 1920 and in Baranya only at the end of October 1921. Another insignificant, yet typical episode occurred: the social democrats who made up the leadership of the left were offended and refused to participate in the elections, boycotting the 1920 elections, perhaps because they were tired of the so-called glorious 133 days, its terror, their anti-national and anti-national killings. But there was also a third, very important message from the 1920 parliamentary elections. As Hungary's first female representative, Margit Slachta entered the National Assembly. Margit Slachta was born on 18 September 1884 in Košice from a Polish family of Polish origin, and they were highland nobles. In 1908 he joined the Social Mission Society. In early 1920, he became a representative of the Christian National Union Party. At the end of the mandate of the Parliament and the Assembly in 1922, the order prohibited him from re-election as a Member of Parliament, so he was excluded from the company because he did not accept it. It wasn't easy, Margaret Slachta, you might say, but she was a persistent, honest, good organizer, and always a stand-up person for the truth. That's what his whole life has proved. So in 1923 he founded his own order, the Society of Social Brothers, with a huge organization, which he was the leader of with minor interruptions until 1963. In the 1930s, he worked on organizing working women. In 1937 he opened a social worker education institute with the name Catholic Women's Social Qualification. During World War II, he stood up for Jewishism deprived of his rights and bombed the authorities on behalf of the Christian Women's Camp in the winter of 41. In 1943, at the beginning of the deportation of the Jews in Slovakia, he traveled directly to the Vatican to see that the 12th century had been the subject of a deportation of the Jews in Slovakia. He'll get Pope Pius to act. As a result, he saved thousands of Jews from Slovakia. After the German occupation of Hungary, he hid thousands of people in the houses of the Order, including Jenő Heltai, Emília Márkus, Miklós Gyarmati Fanni's wife and István Rusznyák, later president of the Academy of Sciences. [[10.00]] After the war, he became a member of the National Assembly again as a candidate outside the party in 1945. In 47, in the Blue Ticket Elections, he entered the National Assembly with the program of the Christian Women's Camp. His last speech was held on 16 June 1948 when the Communists brought nationalization of church schools. Because of his protesting gesture, immunity was brought against him, and because he had no way of punishing him more serious, he was expelled from Parliament for a year. The unshakable Margit Slachta, who had been hiding in the convent of the Dominican sisters since the beginning of 1949, continued to endure. He also submitted his application for departure to the elections of 49, but only to the vote of 15 May, then he fled to Austria in June. Margaret Slachta died in Buffalo on January 6, 1974, in an order of the Social Brothers Society. Due to the Jewish rescue activity during the emergency period in 1985, Israel made him the true of the world, in 1995 the Republic of Hungary was awarded the Medal of Courage, since 2010 the section between the Árpád bridge and the Margaret bridge, the lower part of the Buda quay was named after him. What can we learn, and what example can we take of the first female Member? Fighting for justice, fighting with noble means, defending the Hungarian nation and Christian values at all costs. If there's a problem, if there's a tragedy, whatever it is, you don't have to pull it apart, you have to pull it together. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Some women's MEPs here could also have dignity in failure, learn from them that they should not be hysterical, rowdy, yelling, slanderous, but rather stand up for the nation with decent work. God rest her soul, Margaret Slachta. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-22	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2020-03-24-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The female parliamentary representative of the first national assembly was indeed Margit Slachta. Perhaps it is talkative that our first female MP came from a Christian Democratic political family, not from the left, which says he is progressive, progressive, but from the Christian Democratic side. She was a very combatant congresswoman, because before 45 she fought against the Nazis and saved the Jews, and after 45 she fought against the Communists, and she had to save herself to survive. It was neighborly love and unselfish help that determined his activity, both as a nurse and as a politician. He was rebelling, for in the name of Christendom, according to the teachings of the Christian faith, he rebelled against dictatorships, whether they were Nazi or communist dictatorships, but not by the means to which he referred, he did not chain himself, he did not paint his face, he did not provoke him from among the others, but with inner conviction, his thoughts, his words, his actions were those with which he rebelled against dictatorships and oppression. It can also be seen that the most effective weapon against anti-Semitism and against communism is Christianity, a strong Christian faith, a strong Christian belief, because this was what gave him the strength to save our fellow Jews and gave him the strength to take action against the two dictatorships in public life. In any case, the basis for this is set out in Annex XX. Even in the century, it could have been a strong Christian faith. That's how he was able to resist and remain true to his principles, never giving up on them as long as he could, perhaps because, as I said, as a member of the Order, as a dedicated man in God's service, he felt even more powerful in himself, and that's why he was able to fight bravely here in Parliament. Let me quote one from Margit Slachta:, Merd in these deadlyly serious times drive out of your heart indifference, unlovingness, and hatred. I think this sentence is still relevant today, when our opposition colleagues say that they do not support the Government's proposal for an emergency because they have no confidence in the government in their hearts. There are times when the fate of the nation must be borne in mind. In addition, here today, we have heard an extremely embarrassing explanation from the opposition, which is teeming with logic loops, why yesterday was not voted on to allow Parliament to vote here today to extend the emergency. It is a complete logical failure if you say that you have not contributed to the departure from the house rules in Hungarian to vote on this issue today, because you do not find the date of the end of this proposal correct. The proposal states that the emergency lasts for as long as possible, and you say that you predict when the emergency will end and that the date will be included. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: No one said that! This isn't about that proposal.]] But again, I am not talking about the proposal, just about the date of the vote, because the Hungarian opposition is really creating a legal uncertainty this weekend, the decisions that we have taken at the time of the emergency on the closure of borders, economic and disease control measures, the legal situation of these will all be doubtful this weekend, all because you have not voted in order for Parliament to decide on this today. Honourable Congressman, You did not dispute that the starting date should be as early as possible for this extension provided for by the Fundamental Law, and the Fundamental Law says that after 15 days the Parliament can only extend and maintain these measures in force. They did not dispute that this could be necessary today, either tomorrow or the day after this week, but they did not vote on the quasi-orderary issue so that a derogation from house rules could be voted on today. Because it is possible that you do not dispute the beginning, which is why you support the departure from the house rules to vote now, and then you do not vote for the proposal itself, although I think it is irresponsible, because for a said reason, you do not see the duration of the conclusion sufficiently exact, but the duration of the conclusion is the initial date, so that it can be accepted today, it does not affect it. The two votes have nothing to do with each other. The fact that you do not consider the date of the final date of the content proposal to be right has never been debated before, has not been debated here in Parliament today, has only been prevented by your vote, your vote has been challenged to bring this into force as soon as possible, because then the pro-government majority could vote for it; obviously you can think of this. This shows the great irresponsibleness of the opposition to bring this issue down to the level of everyday political debates, involving the same public-interest non-apartment actors in this debate by petitioning as usual, starting the same Brussels complaints as usual, and thereby being relatable to their own supporters. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the danger of this situation, and they may also change their way of life because you are irresponsible here in Parliament. Be responsible and turn away from this misguided practice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-24	Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, the representative of Fidesz, János Halász, presented himself with the title "Actual Affairs." Here you go.
u2020-03-24-25	[[No microphones.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As the operational tribe has already reported on several occasions, we will move to another stage in the fight against the coronal virus. [[Intercoms, including, "There's no sound."]] It's okay. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: But then there is no voice in the broadcast!]] We're approaching the stage of mass infection. [[They're putting a hand mike in front of the speaker.]] We can also say that this is the hard part. The virus could be in anywhere or anyone. The actual virus carrier may already be much more than the number identified by laboratory tests. The aim remains to slow down the spread of the epidemic, so that at the same time there will be fewer patients in need of hospitalisation. It is comforting to see that the operational tribe and the government are taking extraordinary measures to this end. The Fidesz fraction has supported and will continue to support these decisions, as they are the only way to protect Hungarian people. Unfortunately, it turned out yesterday that in this struggle the country can only count on the governing parties, because the opposition refused to negotiate the bill on the protection of the Crown Virus outside the house, so the House will not be able to adopt the law in six days' time at the earliest. It's a shame! It is amazing that the opposition still wants to fight not the virus, but the government. It is shocking and sad that even in the face of such a serious situation, the Hungarian opposition is only political in its petty party political interests, and we now need to join forces instead of disintegration. The more we team up, the more human lives we can save. The more we team up, the more we can help the families. The more we work together, the more jobs we can save. [[10.10]] But no one has any doubt, we will overcome this crisis without the opposition. The government has already taken measures to help families, to protect the economy. The measures aim to protect Hungarians' jobs. All of this has already been done after 2010, and we will still be on our feet. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced six more measures to protect the economy. A further 81 480 small business operators will be exempt from the flat-rate payment obligation until 30 June, such as hairdressing, beauty care, painting, glazing, electrical installations, other human health care services, performing arts, water, heating, building-tables, outpatient care, flooring and wall covering, exercise and other sporting activities, as well as elderly and disabled persons. The government will grant an extension to their cadastral debt before 1 March, so it will be enough to pay them in the quarter following the end of the emergency. As with tourism and catering, Hungary's media service providers receive temporary tax exemptions due to the loss of advertising revenues. In addition, the government suspends eviction and seizures. An important measure to help families is to extend the right to children, children and children to leave during an emergency. Thank you for the government's action, it is reassuring that you are working on new measures and, if necessary, introduce them. The Fidesz fraction is also fully supporting the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-26	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, the Secretary of State Tállai reflects. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we cannot go past yesterday's and today's activities, let me express my opinion on this. Listening to the speech of the five opposition groups, today's speech, I thought of two words: one of which was the "explaining" and the other was the "loading" of today. The five opposition groups explain why they did not vote yesterday for an extension of the emergency, why they did not vote for faster, more rational and decisive decisions by the government for the benefit of people and businesses. They must have looked at the support of this activity and realized that more than 90 percent of the Hungarian people support the government's tougher and fast decision-making work in this direction. For political reasons, they are now making up all kinds of arguments and arguments, which may be that the foreign liberal press and liberal political leaders like it, but not by any means by Hungarian citizens. The other thing is very interesting, yesterday it was typical of the opposition parties' speech that they struggled; they struggled over the government's decision making the right decisions, the firm, hard, consistent decisions, and they struggled over which one of them said it earlier, and they thought that the government had made these decisions for their speech; they did not look out of the government that it was itself capable of making such decisions. It is very interesting that opposition parties today struggle with the good decision of the government, who first said who said more, and which party, opposition party, which is so smart in this situation, is fighting among themselves. At the same time, they did not struggle to vote for the fact that the government in this country can protect and protect people and Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian economy and jobs in an emergency. As far as the decisions of the government are concerned, I think it is a very thoughtful set of decisions. The first and most important decision was that the government said and provided budget resources for defence; it ensured and we still do not hear that the acquisition of any equipment or equipment would face financial difficulties. I think the Prime Minister himself has also announced today that new protective equipment, equipment and ventilators have arrived in the country. This is a very important decision, because in times of crisis, the most important thing is that we have financial security, so that the resources and funds needed for protection are available. This is a responsible decision, and I think it is a very good and very consistent decision by the government. The second set of decisions concerns families and Hungarian jobs and thus businesses; the families, because with the decision not to pay back obligations with a credit institution by 31 December, more than 7 million transactions and contracts, I think that every family can decide whether to use this option or not. This is a very, very important decision, and it also provides a security for families; just as protecting those who are very, very young, because families where this relationship ends do not have to worry about it, but that is automatically extended as long as there is an emergency in Hungary. This is equally true of the Hungarian economy, Hungarian businesses, by declaring a tax moratorium on certain sectors and small businesses, and it is equally true of the 145 thousand companies, which have credit law with financial institutions and banks, and they are also subject to a moratorium on credit repayment. This also gives you a safety, you can decide on a given enterprise [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What you can use the source to release it. I think the government's on the right track with its series of decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the information sent earlier by the Director-General that, in addition to voting during the day, only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers should be present. Obviously, it's a briefing. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break, and then we will continue our work with the bill amending the law on the promotion of performing arts organisations. Pause: 10.18, 10.23 (President: Dr. István Hiller Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. László Varga)
u2020-03-24-29	Dear Parliament, Following is the 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing art organisations. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/9823. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total timeframe of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for your further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I have to say this to Mr Black Secretary of State. So I give the floor to Mr. Péter Fekete, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources. Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-24-30	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, On the National Cultural Council, on cultural strategic institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural laws, CXXIV of 2019. In December 2019 the Act introduced a new funding model for the theatre structure in Hungary, which primarily affected national and priority theaters. Based on the principle of maintenance responsibility, it basically defined the forms of operation in three categories. There is a state-owned theatre financed by the state, there is a municipal theatre financed by the maintenance municipality, and there is a common operating institution, a common form of operation, which is co-financed. Please allow me to briefly summarise the experience of the period since December. I would like to indicate that all municipalities that maintain theatres I kiss your hand, you submitted your application for joint operation by the deadline of 1 March. Therefore, there was not a single municipality that would have failed to do so or considered that it did not wish to operate its institutions jointly. I'd like to inform you of the negotiation period. There have been over 20 negotiations between the Secretary of State for Culture and the mayors of the cities in question. These negotiations took place in a balanced atmosphere, bearing in mind the social importance of theatre art, looking for partnership, with an agreement-making tone. As a result, for most rural theatres, financing decisions have been prepared, they are in front of the government and contracts are expected to be signed soon to ensure a harmonious, balanced operation. In these cases, the management principle was to maintain or, where possible, increase the resources provided earlier. We were able to label a large part of the funds for wage improvements. I would like to list the win-win situations that all parties welcomed in each agreement. We have determined with the individual mayors that, in the case of state resources, the increases should be used for wage development in the case of potential increases in state resources. At the explicit request of the theatres, we were able to conclude contracts that went beyond one year, which in the long term ensured that the operation of certain performing arts institutions could be balanced and planned. Also, there was an agreement on the issue of the appointment of the director everywhere, as both the government side and the municipal side accepted that the professional committees which prepared the decision were adopted by the decision-making representative bodies, so that a voluntary and mutual commitment could be achieved during the negotiations with the municipalities. For all the theatres mentioned above, a win-win situation has thus emerged with regard to the introduction of the new law. There was also an important directorial principle to try to establish approximately 50-50 percent of funding. In cases where there was a different ratio, it was well marked as to the reason for this, why a theatre receives some more than 50 percent. In the case of the metropolitan theatres, the situation is very specific, since we have been going through a series of negotiations with the capital for more than two months. New aspects have been raised in this context. As you felt, I was just talking about rural theatres, and I informed you that we are in a position to agree on all rural theatres. But in the case of the capital city, the first point was that there were theatres that the capital does not wish to put into joint operation, it would like to run the theatre itself, accepting its full funding and accepting its full maintenance. They have theatres where he doesn't want to keep running. There was no demand for a joint operation where he wanted to finance his theatre 50-50 percent. At the same time, there was a need for the capital to transfer the financing of certain theatres to the State in its entirety, asking the State to operate them for the period of the contract. The State, feeling its responsibilities in this field, is willing to fully finance these theatres, but since the capital does not wish to transfer ownership or maintenance powers, a solution should be found which provides the operating State with a guarantee of professional work during the period of public funding. The principal depositary of this is the head of the theater, so the government is expected to have a decisive role in the appointment of the director. This can be done by taking over the basic employers' rights over the leading employee of the theatre, only for the duration of the joint operation. In order to understand correctly the ladies and gentlemen of Congress, if the capital and the capital are the only ones involved, the state is financing its theaters, but it does not want to hand over to the theatre either its ownership or its maintenance rights, in this case the situation is the one that we would like to ask for a solution or propose in connection with the amendment of the law. [[10.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, There is now a very strange and very strong situation when the country is in an emergency. During the extremely severe ordeal affecting our nation, I am experiencing a full national cooperation following the announcement of the emergency. The most serious burden is borne by our fellow citizens in health care, and our lives depend on them, and we owe them our gratitude. The reliable standing of law enforcement professionals provides us with security in everyday life. As Secretary of State for Culture, I was very proud and pleased to see that those working in culture and art, including musicians, dancers, actors, artists, public collection experts, stood up, joined together and fulfilled their profession with humility similar to that of health and law enforcement workers, i.e. serving the Hungarian nation with the toolbox of culture. Maintaining their human status, maintaining the mental health balance of our fellow citizens is a key part of the fight against the epidemic, and our cultural professionals are exemplary in this task. That is why it is extremely important that we be able to make our decision today as soon as possible. Among the segments injured in the economy, tourism and our fellow citizens working in the performing arts are the most affected in addition to the hospitality industry. It is therefore extremely important that the practical implementation of the theater financing system that has been launched in the right direction, but which is still under way, be resolved as a matter of urgency. I therefore thank you for the unanimous adoption by this House of this law to be negotiated in exceptional proceedings. On the basis of the above, I respectfully ask for the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-24-31	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you will have a total of 17 minutes to comment on the debate and to say the closing word at the end of the debate. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the next speaker will be Mr Csaba Nagy, who will be followed by Mr László L. Simon and Congressman Brenner Koloman. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-32	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 23 March 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. T/9823. Bill No. 1. The summary report from the committee of the house rule 46. By 24 votes in favour, 8 with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary introduced the special legal order, the emergency by declaring the emergency, by order of the Government of Hungary to prevent and eliminate the consequences of the human epidemic causing a mass disease that threatens the safety of life and property, in order to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. The measures taken as a result of the emergency have affected the cultural sector, especially performing art, and all domestic theatres have been forced to shut down in order to prevent the spread of the epidemic, leading to significant economic anomalies in the art sector in the short term. The responsibility of the cultural government has increased even more in terms of the shut-down sector and services, as well as those employed, which requires proactive and rapid action. This is precisely what the bill before us is aimed at: guaranteeing the sustainable functioning of the theaters. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft should be supported, because the proposal creates a legal framework for reaching agreement with the capital city and implementing the agreement, reflecting the aspects of the municipality of Budapest, which in these times of distress is a task which is not to be postponed in terms of performing art. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-24-33	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that there will be speeches by Members, first by Mr László L. Simon, then by Congressman Brenner Koloman, then by Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes, the independent representatives have 8 minutes in total, and the representatives of nationalities are invited to speak or speak. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First up, Mr László L. Simon, lead speaker for the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-34	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, with regard to the reference to the crisis situation, as we have heard from both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member who has presented the position of the Legislative Committee, it should be noted that it is indeed the case, as Mr State Secretary said, that in addition to the field of hospitality and tourism, one of the greatest losses in the short term has been suffered and suffered by the performing arts area. For this reason, we should thank the Government of Hungary here, too, for the opportunity for workers, staff and artists in the performing arts area, as soon as the first measures were announced, so that they would not have to pay social security contributions temporarily after the announcement of the emergency. We also thank you for the fact that with the second package of measures the government made that decision, and this was also published last night in the Hungarian Gazette, which resulted in the possibility for many actors, many musicians, and the obligation to pay the catalog temporarily terminated or suspended by the government. These are immediate and rapid aid for the sector. Thank you, we appreciate it. At the same time, let us note that the bill before us is not primarily justified by the need to declare an emergency to the government, but by the fact that, following the change of law that came into force in December, as we have heard from Mr. State Secretary, the government has conducted extremely effective and constructive negotiations with local authorities that maintain theatre and performing arts, but this has been particularly difficult in the case of a municipality. This is about the capital, as we have heard from Mr. Secretary of State's exposé. To make it clear to all of us, the real problem is that, while the government and the mayor, Gergely Christmas, and the Secretary of State and Gergely Christmas have had extremely effective and constructive negotiations, the coalition in the capital itself cannot agree on the fate and future of its own theatres. This bill before us, which is otherwise extremely simple, logical and certainly to be supported, was, therefore, due to the fact that the capital itself wants, let us say openly, to get rid of the maintenance of some of its theatres, namely, about seven institutions, not legally, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, as he wants to keep the reservation with him, the property, the property ownership, and does not want to include one forint in the financing of these institutions. Therefore, since it has practically released or intends to release the hands of these institutions, the State has every right to say that if, in future, a hundred percent of the taxpayers' resources will be used by the government to finance these institutions, i.e. the government will be forced to take on additional expenditure in the face of a crisis, there will also be additional rights to the extra expenditure, i.e. the Minister should be entitled to the right of the employer, the Minister should be able to say who will lead these institutions, taking into account the decision of a professional committee. I think that this is a logical situation, which follows entirely naturally from the situation. There was no similar situation in any other rural municipality during the negotiations. So the responsibility for the development of this situation is not for the government, but for the coalition of the capital, especially for the party of the Democratic Coalition, which, by the way, seems to be constantly reviving the Mayor. [[10.40]] So left-wing parties cannot agree with each other in this situation, left-wing allies cannot make an alliance or compromise in a theatre operation arrangement that would otherwise lead to balanced operation. We have seen this well in the scandal surrounding the appointment of Bán Theodo. We could well see that a tender had been withdrawn, and then it was rewritten, and they finally made a wise decision to appoint two leaders to the head of the same institution. They then varied, arguing in public that the two institutions should now be divided into two sub-unites or not, and that they should continue to function as two separate institutions, which would obviously be absurd, since both costs and employment would be significantly increased as a result and would be contrary to the initial call for proposals. So apparently, the leadership of the capital city cannot agree with itself, while the Mayor makes reasonable and logical proposals to the government, and this is the case. And otherwise, it would be possible to agree on a good operating model and the state would support the capital institutions with significant resources. And the state didn't even try to take on 100% of the funding of local government institutions. Meanwhile, the mayor's coalition partner has created a situation in which it follows that the capital itself is asking for it, so far it looks like the full funding of seven of its institutions from the state. In addition, there are institutions, let us add quickly, where the representatives of the capital do not want to take responsibility for the appointment of head of the institution, because they do not want to appoint such persons in the campaign itself, Gergely Christmas said in a press statement that she considers it impossible, for example, for György Dörner theater director to remain with his mayorship, so they have exposed their intentions in advance. So, in such a situation, they themselves want the institutions to transfer funding and, in parallel, the right to appoint an institution manager to the government. It is important to say this here in Parliament, because in the press statements and newspaper articles that deal with this bill this morning, the opposition papers already state the bill and the resulting situation as if the state were to take away the theatres from the capital! The state doesn't want to take the theaters from the capital. However, if you are forced to take over and fund 100% institutions and performing arts organisations, then you are absolutely right to say so, and this is what is in the bill, that you also take responsibility for the funding. As is the bill 2. Article 44 of the Act on Performing Arts can also be seen. The following point 58 is added if we support the law: appointment under such and such points of the 2011 Law on Local Governments in Hungary, executive mandate, waiver, withdrawal of management orders, finding conflicts of interest, initiating disciplinary proceedings and imposing disciplinary penalties, so all of these are transferred to the funder. Article 1 § 2 also makes it clear that if, under the agreement governing the joint operation, the financial conditions for the annual operation of the theatre with a municipal reservation are fully guaranteed by the central budget, i.e. the maintenance municipality does not participate with a HUF, then the minister exercises the fundamental employer rights over the leading employee of the theatre. I think it's a perfectly logical and normal thing to do. Any conclusion from this that the State would want to take the theatres away from the municipalities is clearly not possible. Anyone who draws that conclusion or does not interpret the law correctly or is simply not telling the truth. So, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, we ask that my fellow Members support this fundamentally technical amendment. For our part, we are clearly behind the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-24-35	Thank you very much. Mr Brenner Koloman is next; he is followed by Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi; then by Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány. Just a few seconds, please, from Congressman Brenner, we have an IT update ahead of us, so let's all be patient. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Of course.]] Thank you very much for your patience, because the IT update has been completed. So now it's time for the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to say that Jobbik, as a national people's party, welcomes all such steps, because this emergency is indeed, as my fellow Member L. Simon rightly said, the rapporteur-artists are particularly affected, and we naturally support all such measures. In addition, thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your report on how the negotiations in rural theatres have been conducted in recent years. After all, when we voted in favour of the cultural package of laws, which was not only about theatres, but also about many other parts, which caused serious debates in this House, we had serious reservations about how the appointment of directors is taking place in particular in the case of mixed-funded theatres. If this has indeed been linked to the opinions of the professional committees, then I think this is a very positive move in relation to the fundamental spirit of the original package. I would like to raise with respect the question, which Mr Secretary of State pointed out, that it can then be said that there is an emergency in the grounds, but, as my fellow Member, Mr Simon, has said, this proposal is not about that, but about a concrete solution to the situation of the theatres in the capital, and that is why this exceptional procedure and this exceptional voting system are important. After all, I must say that I would not qualify for a concrete proposal because Jobbik, as a national party, does not participate in this battle in the capital. I would like to ask that we can support this in the event that, in fact, there is a situation here in consultation with the capital, which is being carried out by providing the principle to which, on behalf of Jobbik, we insist just because we have a public-law package, an integral part of which is that the role of local and regional authorities must be strengthened much more than their current, very often empty powers, that the municipality in whose territory a theatre operates must have some kind of say in the appointment of the head of the institution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-03-24-37	Thank you very much. After Mrs Ágnes Kunhalmi, it will be Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, who will be followed by Congressman Antal Csárdi. So now it's time for MSZP's lead speaker, Agnes Kunhalmi. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-38	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, let me express our satisfaction at the fact that performers are among those who are having problems because of the coronal virus, because they were first and suddenly hit by this problem as an individual entrepreneur. However, I would like to say that we would like to ask for further measures in addition to the measures we have just taken, because it was me and my fellow Member, István Hiller, who first drew attention to the plight of performers in the country. The other two proposals that we would like you to find are open ears: on the one hand, open the National Cultural Fund for this purpose and establish a separate fund. Those who can demonstrate what their lectures are being missed should be assisted separately, specifically, under the leadership of a professional body. And 25 percent of the fee for empty audio carriers would be desirable at the moment. If this were accepted, it would be treated with great respect, not by us, but by those involved. Now, let's get down to the theater bill. The short bill in front of Parliament, consisting of only five paragraphs, is a continuation of a previous legislation. In December 2019 the National Assembly adopted the CXXIV on the National Cultural Council, the Cultural Strategy Institutions and the amendment of certain cultural laws. a law introducing the establishment of a joint operation. It was already clear at the time what the content of this change was, which everyone can clearly see on the basis of the bill currently under discussion. The bill is 1. It can be seen from the wording of Section 2 of the Act that the joint operation essentially results in a broad power of the Minister over the theatres. If the municipally reserved theater is fully financed by the central budget on the basis of the agreement of the municipality and the Ministry, the Minister shall be entitled to the basic employers' rights in relation to senior positions. [[10.50]] Article 2 § 3 states what these licenses are. In accordance with Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, these powers are also concentrated in the hands of the Minister, with the exception of the appointment or the mandate, which were essentially absent from the previous government communication. The question arises, ladies and gentlemen, why this bill goes to Parliament now. The answer is likely to be that, in the event of a crisis caused by a coronal virus, it is not now possible to organise a demonstration organised on 9 December 2019 following the publication of the government vision. There were thousands of participants in this movement in Budapest, artists, young people, creators and others, and among the speakers was Gergely Karácsony, the mayor of Budapest. Of course, there is also the question of what is the intention of XCIX in 2008. the context of the amendment of the law. This cannot be learned either from the general or detailed justification of the bill, which basically refers to a fair burden sharing between the government and the municipalities, but this claim does not appear to be justified. It is well known that state support for theatres was published already in 1990, as the then government was well aware of the need to provide adequate financial resources for municipalities in this area. At the time, however, no government powers were required to be attached to this aid, nor did the first, second and third Orbán governments act with such a need. The principle of a quarter-century system of this support was that although the theatres were financed by the State, it did not wish to interfere with the artistic activities carried out there, did not want to shape the programme policy there, and accordingly did not want to interfere with the personal composition of the management. This corresponds to the cultural financing activity of the democratic state. Within the framework of the principle of world-view neutrality, governments know that funding for high culture is inconceivable, but they also know that the consumption of culture belongs to citizens' freedoms; what and how many people look at it is decided by the public. If we look back at the events of the last ten years, we can get a clear answer as to what motivates Fidesz or its government with this change. As a starting point, I refer to Viktor Orbán's speech in Vötche on 30 May 2010, which he held the day after his election as Prime Minister. In this, the Prime Minister indicated that right-wing culture has a crucial role to play in consolidating the social foundations of the national cooperation system. The Prime Minister called it an important task to preserve the traditional Christian national culture before 1945, but because of the interruption of continuity he also stressed that restoration alone was not enough. He asked his intellectual students to create a new right-wing culture, stressing that it should be created by them with works, celebrations and awards. In the framework of this concept, the Hungarian Academy of Arts was introduced into the Fundamental Law, and a number of changes to the worlds of education, culture and science were also launched. As part of this process, public education has been centralised, the National Basic Training Plan has been developed, the autonomy of universities has been limited and its research network has been removed from the MTA. In fact, the political debate on CEU is also part of this concept, which ultimately transferred a significant part of the university's education programmes to Vienna. However, there is another reason for presenting the current bill: on October 13, 2019 the Republican forces won in the capital city, in its 14 districts, and in ten cities with county rights. In this situation, the government saw the need to further limit the leeway of the municipalities, and the current bill forms part of this process. This is why the government did not respond to the compromise proposal of the Budapest leadership, which offered for the joint operation of 7 theatres, including 3 theatres, the Attila József Theatre, Thália and the New Theatre, which would have been financed exclusively by the state. It is clear that for these three stone theatres, the government could pursue its cultural policy objectives in line with the compromise proposed. Finally, Mr President, Mr House, honourable State Secretary, for all these reasons, the Parliamentary Group of the MSZP clearly and clearly rejects the bill, since one of our fundamental values is to ensure the full freedom of culture. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-03-24-39	Thank you very much. After Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, Mr Csárdi is next, and Mr Péter Hoppál can follow him as an additional speaker. So I now give the floor to the leader of the Democratic Coalition, Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-40	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen. What has happened and is happening here in the last few months in the case of the theatres in Budapest, I consider it to be a part of the soul of Budapest, and, overall, the damage to Hungarian culture. [[A statement from the Fidesz: We should go to the theater!]] Overall, who appoints a theatre director is not decisive in most European countries. Such a debate would probably not continue in Finland, Denmark, France. Because, in fact, our debate is not a labour law debate. If there were agreement between you and us that the interpretation of theatrical, artistic and cultural expression is free, and there is no say in this for the authorities or the state exercising public authority, then in fact, to be honest, this would be a financial, labour law agreement, and we could safely say that either will be good. But that's not the case. You know very well whether you agree or not I speak relatively rarely in this Parliament. Most of the House is still empty. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: The virus!]] But I think there's a lot more to this than just who's exercising employer's rights over the leaders of the theatres. Here we are in a dramatic debate, I think. Do we have the right, to exercise public authority, to impose expectations in any way, what is more, to force formally or informally the interpretation and rewording of the world towards artists who make it their calling, yes or no? What the speaker before me spoke about is a problem of culture. I think it is natural for governments and the opposition to argue with each other on major political issues, of course: what our foreign policy, our security policy, our tax policy should be; I will not go any further. But when I said that there would be no such debate in Finland or Denmark or France, I wanted to point out that there is no debate in civil democracies, and it seems that, for ourselves, this comment can only be interpreted in a limited way, that we have nothing to do with art, culture, theatre, as a way of helping free expression. That is not what you think, the Prime Minister has announced this policy, he is publicly confessing. He thinks it's the government's job to write masterpieces and what the masterpiece is, he will decide: all the masterpieces that convey his vision of the world. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[11.00]] But the fact is that when the Duke of Gloster says in the first place that I have decided to become a villain, we will now say that this sentence can be inserted into today's Hungarian reality in the dramaturgy sense, and if this sentence is spoken in the Hungarian Parliament, and we will tell you that if the director wants to put it in someone's mouth, it will be a pro-government politician or an opposition politician, or the Prime Minister himself or not. I don't think it's good for us to give director's advice. And you're giving. You have very clear ideas, ideological and cultural policy expectations, which are about to convey the world's vision that you represent. I'm staring at this. Sharp! I do not dispute that there can be a theatrical interpretation of what the New Theatre does, and I think it has a place in Budapest. When the electorate decided in October to trust someone else to lead Budapest, I also talked to a lot of people from the theatre world, people with whom you speak, how to create a free European cultural world in Budapest, including a theatre world. I think you know that. Those who have a voice in the theatre world in Budapest today have basically told us without exception that they have suggested to us and to the Mayor that I urge you to rest and patience, to preserve the diversity of the theatre world in Budapest, there is no place for any kind of cultural political revenge. There are appointed directors, they take some policy, they stay in place, and I remember that the leadership of the capital did not take such a step; as long as he existed in office, he existed when his application expired, obviously new applications were issued. And yes, this is actually the current amendment of the law, but especially the big amendment in December before that is fitting into the line that you are doing in this cultural warrior approach. In fact, you can't stand the free voice, the free thought; you can't stand the existence of independent intellectuals independent of you. This is what is behind the persecution of the Central European University; this is what is behind the limitation and dismantling of the rights of the Academy; this is what is behind the statements of the head of the Petőfi Literature Museum, and he will tell us what good Hungarian literature and bad Hungarian literature are -; this is what is behind the concept behind the National Basic Science Plan, and this is what is behind it. We are not simply talking about the theater, we are talking about whether it is free, is sovereign to the spirit, research, art. You don't think I should. We think he's free. And we will go against every step that restricts this corrupted, desecrated, humiliated freedom. You say that, but, well, the leadership of the capital agrees. The way I see it, we're witnessing a relatively simple scene in the most commerious Western films. The government puts a gun to the head of the capital's leadership and says, "Money or life!" Subtitles by DramaFever I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: they are asking for it.]] At that time, when only two of every hundred forints of common income generated in Budapest are left in Budapest, two will be pressed and the press will continue to be pressed, and then they will tell Budapest that I will grant the former government budget support only if I can say what theater policy will be, it means that children will either tighten up the life in Budapest or you will give up your theatre. There is no doubt that there are more opportunities in this too. By the way, to be honest, I might have responded differently to such blackmail, but the mayor and his team and the majority behind him saw that the capital had so much trouble, not to mention the mass problems and troubles of the last few days and weeks, that there was nothing they could do. But if you believe that this is a fair agreement between equals, on the ground of civil decency, then we do not agree on that either. You blackmailed Budapest. [[István Hollik: It's not true!]] And in an extortion situation in Budapest, thinking that this city should operate, at some point beyond that, I think it was the victim of a dishonest violence, not of an agreeable party. That's the thing. [[L. Simon László: That's a lie.]] You know, I am infinitely saddened by what you are doing, and I also think that you are opposed to what you represent. It's either words or actions. You always speak of yourself as a party with a national commitment, and, as such, you are very right to stand up for the language care of national culture, because you understand that the nation is a community that is created, among other things, by the constitution, that it has its own, independent, characteristic culture, but if that is true of the nation, I can tell you that this is also true of smaller communities. Budapest is also an existing entity, thank God, more free than you give the country. You really want to break this cultural free identity of Budapest. Tell me, what would you say if you gave Hungary money from Brussels by setting out Hungary's cultural policy? ! You'd be outraged. They'd say it's typical of the worst Moskovite times that you won't let yourselves go, because the nation is first, and they'll protect you. You are doing the same thing, saying that with the common money, not your money, with the common money, you will give Budapest money for the theatres if the theatre policy becomes what you want. Why didn't they do this in the Tarlos? Why didn't you think of that? Why not? ! So that wasn't important? Is it important when Budapest voted for freedom against you? So this is an outrage that can be done? Get the skin off your face. That's what I can say. You, please, try to force your own unacceptable cultural policy into Budapest with outrageous violence. And they're proud of that. I think you're gonna be ashamed that everything that makes art, culture, is what is, is being dishonored, murdered and raped. Therefore, the person who submits and supports this law does not support the freedom of Hungarian national culture, its flowering, but the crushing of it. I know the Secretary of State's autobiography, not you personally. Your biography, by the way, is impressive in many ways. It can't be said that he didn't roll around in the everyday world of art, look, but maybe he should think about different circus arts, different literature, painting, and different theatres. [[István Hollik: He was a theatre director.]] Tigers can be trained. [[An uproar among pro-government representatives.]] You can always pull out another rabbit from the magician's hat. [[11.10]] Artists can probably do a triple after a proper training session, after a double flip. Yes! It's art, too. In the world of theatre, I don't think it's necessary to train, but to allow the freedom of the spirit. You don't seem to understand any of this, and as I said, I don't know Mr. Secretary personally, perhaps even his predecessor in passing. I'm not arguing with them, of course. Allow me to say that, as you are likely to be infinitely critical of what I represent, I must say, you are doing an awful lot of villainy. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-41	Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, then Congressman Péter Hoppál, then Congressman Bence Tordai, may come in different ways. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the LMP, Congressman Antal Csárdi, please.
u2020-03-24-42	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Obviously, there are some strategic issues worth bringing in in in times of distress that we are living now. You think it's such a question. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány, on his way up to L. Simon László: I'm watching you from TV, children. After a brief discussion, Ferenc Gyurcsány leaves the room.]] I think that this bill is the way in which the theatres of the capital are practically nationalised, and that is nothing more than the implementation of what the Prime Minister has said in his speech in kötchees, as my fellow Member said, and unfortunately that is clear. And it is possible to explain the inexplicable, but anyone who knows the municipal funding system, which determines the management of municipalities today, knows precisely that this is the case, that they could do this, because and only because the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, bleeds out the municipalities through the task funding system. We know that in many cases we have examined that the task financing system that characterizes the funding of municipalities seems to finance the necessary costs of mandatory tasks between 30 and 70 percent of the state. Social tasks are in a more unfortunate situation, which is in a more fortunate situation, but for example, culture is seriously underfunded. So you've created an artificial situation that, with the best farming, you can't manage the financing needs of the theatres. And yes, I think this is happening along a well-built strategy. We are talking about a cultural battle, and you have well planned and implemented how to create a situation where, in practice, the underfunded municipality is unable to decide or, where appropriate, cannot finance all the theatres. It is true that I must add that the stone theatres will never repeat: never! they couldn't make it without state support. It comes from its nature. And I think the kind of principle that you follow, that whoever pays orders is the principle of socialism. And I understand from here on out, because your socialization isn't after 90. Let's face it. And I think that this is perfectly reflected in this bill, it appears in the cultural battle that you have proclaimed against Hungarian culture, it appears in every bill, in their decision, starting with the funding of local governments, and, for example, in the bill before us, I think that this is shameful, and that a Democrat cannot support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-43	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute speeches, but no two-minute speeches have been made. There is therefore room for further speeches within the remaining timeframe. The remaining time frame can be monitored on the seating table, to my right and to the left. Mr Péter Hoppál, State Secretary, representative of Fidesz, will take the floor in the list of speakers that have been announced. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-44	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The present proposal, noted by Secretary of State Péter Fekete, must be seen as part of a process. This process was launched at a political moment initiated by the prominent leaders of the opposition, indeed; in October of last year, after the municipal elections, when a dialogue was launched between the leadership of the capital and the leadership of some rural cities and the cultural government. This was a dialogue in which the parties discussed on an equal footing how to resolve the dilemma of performing arts since a decade or even since the change of regime, how should I say the funding of municipal-reserved performing arts organisations, including the highest-quality stone theatres with high and national status? Half-sided. Half-sided at the expense of the municipality, for the benefit of the state. In other words, the maintenance and operation of the stone theatre system is mainly a municipal task, but the majority, the large majority financer, is the government, i.e. the Hungarian state. The dilemmas of this tension have been resolved by the ongoing negotiation of local government leaders and representatives of the government. And there was a consensus in December when the amendment of the Act of Performing Arts created the three categories which, as the nationalist, was indicated by the State Secretary. In other words, there are institutions with purely local government reserve and operation, purely state reserve and operation, common maintenance and operation among theatre art organizations. I think that this is a consensual outcome of the bilateral, two-way consultation that has taken place since October. And now, in the last three months, there has been a period of fine-tuning when they have reviewed in detail which theatres the municipalities intend to place in the three categories in question. It was also a decent work done by local government leaders and carried out a cultural wallet. And it should be noted from this fine-tuning, in capital letters at the request of the City Council, that the solution that lies before us here in the form of a bill of law amendment. What's this about? It has already been said, but let us note briefly that the recent amendment to the adopted law in December is nothing more than that some theatres, as requested by the City Council, would like to be operated in such a way that the majority of state funding is actually available. The State is prepared to undertake this task by providing majority funding to the theatres that remain in the municipality's ownership. [[11.20]] But let's show one of those companies [[Bence of Turdai: This is not a business company!]] or any institution in which 100% of the total funding is provided by the State, where appropriate [[Bence Tordai: Kindergarten, nursery.]] , the municipality remains as the owner, but does not add a penny to the operation on an annual basis, and there is no possibility that the 100 per cent financier will carry the law from the operation to a very small extent, which the City Council has otherwise recognised, and their management has deemed to be supportive, to a small amendment, until the appointment of the leader, to his disciplinary questions. In particular, the amendment states that the power of appointment would be taken over by the State, the power of the management mandate, the waiver, the withdrawal of the management mandate, the finding of conflicts of interest, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings and the imposition of disciplinary penalties. Typically, the employer's powers over the single-person theater director are transferred to the state. Completely logical step and logical decision, and negotiations, fine-tunings, three-month negotiations result and result in this, that if you request the municipality, where appropriate, the capital city to be fully supportive of operation annually at the level of hundreds of billionaires! To the extent that the State, then maintaining all other maintenance licenses, retains the ownership of this one little thing, that the number one responsible leader, who uses 100% of the state's money, will be appointed and relieved by the State, will be handed over to the State. Bringing him into this, involving the honourable opposition speakers in the fight for culture and arrogance, I don't understand. I understand, because we have to make a policy of everything, and after yesterday's fiasco, that the opposition did not vote against 94 percent of the Hungarian people's demand that the government give the fastest and most effective response to the situation caused by the Crown Virus in Hungary, and that the extension of the emergency can be achieved as quickly as possible, it is understandable that the opposition is opening politically some new fronts and trying to justify itself. But he's on a very bad course, I think, because there have been text phrases in the debate that, of course, overwhelm the boundaries of the proposal, which cannot be responded to. Allow us, first of all, to declare that the freedom of culture which you have just called for in Hungary from the opposition side of the main speaker group has been guaranteed since 1990. Anyone who says otherwise simply isn't telling the truth. Take a look at the theater offers. Take a look at the different principles and messages of settlement. Take a look at the attendance of the performances. The freedom of culture and theatre, thanks you very much, excellently, well, lives and blooms in Hungary, has never been better. Theater art is in a booming, prosperous economic activity compared to the period of the, which includes any kind of isms. The former Prime Minister, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, said that I quote his speech: "How to create European culture and theatre in Budapest?" We respectfully report that free European theatre art and culture are present in Budapest. You can go to any theater, and you can watch performances with tough government criticisms. How is theater not allowed? ! How do you like to think that the secretary of state responsible for culture, the current secretary of state, is involved in what sort of settlements should be, and that the Prime Minister will decide what sort of settlements may be in Hungary? This is such nonsense that I think that anyone who says such a thing in the Parliamentary record should come back and correct this statement. Further quote: they can't stand the fact that the government side is the existence of independent, free intellectuals, said Ferenc Gyurcsány. Now, if you'll excuse me, let me give you a figure from another area of performing art, in the field of musical art so dear to me. During the prime minister period of Ferenc Gyurcsány, before 2010, the Hungarian symphony orchestra, the public funding of the Budapest Festival Orchestra, was 400-430 million forints. Today, in the last five or six years, the Orbán government has raised the previous state aid of 400-430 million to HUF 1 billion 150 million. Today, the symphony orchestra, whose leader regularly criticizes the Orbán government and the existing Hungarian democracy, receives three times as much state support. Take your own sentences seriously. Saying that the government side hates the existence of independent, free intellectuals and suppresses them! The opposite is true: the current government provides triple support for the existence of government critical intellectuals and arts on a qualitative basis. It's a fact. Don't deny it. Come here and tell me that's not true. The one who denies it and who claims otherwise is lying! Let me also respond to the European Union's money and the context of culture. The staff of the Democratic Coalition may have made a mistake in the preparation material of Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, but then come back and apologize: the European Union does not give money to finance culture, there is no funding of culture in the operational programmes, unfortunately we cannot count on it in Hungarian. Hungarian national resources, the resources allocated back by the state, can finance national culture. And how have you financed, say, theater arts, in the last ten years? I would like to say to you, fellow Members, that you would like to know what the number of the theater tickets was in Hungary in 2008-2009 during the last period of total Balliberal government. 4.5 million theater tickets were purchased in Hungary at the time. 4.5 million theater tickets throughout Hungary. Do you know how many theater tickets were purchased in Hungary after eight years of right-wing, conservative, civic, Christian government? As opposed to 4.5 million, 7.1 million theater tickets were purchased in Hungary. This means that the purchase of tickets in Hungary increased by 55-60 percent during the period of the Orbán government. And behind this, all the performances, all the extra lectures and all the extra experimental theaters, what's there? There's state aid there. It is not European Union money, my honourable opposition colleagues, it is not a penny of EU money. The Hungarian national source, which the Orbán government gave to the theatres. To say that the government doesn't support it, doesn't finance it, I have to say that it's a lie. So there has never been such support for theatre art in Hungary, we must say this; certainly not in the last 30 years. A closing thought about what kind of press we heard in the municipalities that he couldn't finance his theaters. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be amnesiac: there was a press in theatre and municipalities when the municipalities were indebted because they could not finance their mandatory task. The local government's debt was typical before 2010. I can tell you from Pécs that along with Bertalan Tóth, who is sitting next to Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, we have seen as city representatives that, unfortunately, a debt of 40 billion has come together on the neck of the municipality, which the Orbán government had to replace, because the tasks remained, but the funding has decreased in the municipalities. It's different today. Today, funding for the task that the municipalities have to carry out is assured. So you can't argue that there's no money for culture. Today, there is money for which the municipality will receive money from the state and which will generate its own revenue. [[11.30]] We are very confident that this small amendment, which was launched by the opposition side and was essentially born as a result of a joint negotiation, will eventually be accepted, and we hope that theater art will continue to flourish in Hungary, as the operation of the Orbán governments has given enormous impetus over the last ten years. I trust that Congressman Bence Tordai, who is political in the party that gives the Mayor, can confirm these data and information. I propose to everyone that they support the amendment of the law. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-45	Thank you very much. In addition to the honorable task, it is undoubtedly a disadvantage for the President not to take part in the debate. So I have no choice but to give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the representative of the Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The question is, what are you doing amending the theater law before the National Assembly? What does the amendment of the Act of Theatre in an exceptional procedure before Parliament, when all parliamentary parties agreed that now only proposals dealing with and dealing with the crisis have a place in Parliament? We agreed in the House Committee, confirmed several times, there was a seven-party agreement that we were living with self-limitation, the opposition gave up the possibility of interpellation, gave up the possibility of questions, and we also gave up the possibility that even committees would have to negotiate any proposal, not related to the protection of the coronal virus epidemic. In comparison, such an amendment will be tabled yesterday, which has nothing to do with the crisis, and we are now debating and voting on it in an exceptional procedure. This is completely outrageous! And you, who asked for confidence yesterday, and said that this government was so worthy of trust, since it did not abuse the announcement of the crisis in the context of the so-called mass refugee crisis for three years, I am ironic that there were no more refugees in the mass, but that the crisis was maintained, yesterday, they would have asked for four fifths of Parliament's support for the power of delegation, virtually without a time limit. They're asking us to trust you because they're giving us their word of honor that they're not going to use the authorisation law for anything but the protection against the coronal virus epidemic. They said the same thing about all the parliamentary submissions, that they would give their word of honour, that they would not bring any other proposals before the Parliament, and this is the case. You're dishonest, you're dishonest. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál:]] You are infinitely mean, and then you ask for people's trust. You are completely unworthy of people's trust, you are completely unworthy of the confidence of opposition representatives [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: We don't want that!]] So let's forget about each other, forget about each other. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Good.]] So if you ask the opposition to trust once more, when you ask for it every day! they lie to themselves, spit in front not only of opposition representatives, but also of half of the Hungarian society whose opinion we represent in this House [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh, 1 percent!]] Then really turn around a little bit, and don't be surprised that you have zero confidence in yourselves. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: We do not ask for trust!]] Yesterday they asked to beg for it, begged for national unity, to have the 4th mandate, but in vain, because you are infinitely dishonest. So we haven't given them a word of honor. [[L. Simon László: Shame on you!]] and today it has been proven that we were absolutely right: you are dishonest, and this is proved day by day. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And now that Viktor Orbán has been...
u2020-03-24-47	I would like to ask you, in the subject matter, to talk about the law, and not about each other's qualifications. I'm asking you to talk about the law. [[Dr. László Pósán: That's right!]]
u2020-03-24-48	It is about the circumstances of the referral of the law. There is not much to say about the law itself, as Viktor Orbán announced the fight for culture a few years ago, and you have since done it in a servile manner in every possible field. The cultural struggle is perhaps even a very fair, euphemistic expression, because there is no struggle here, there is no conflict between equals, there is cultural terrorism here, as Gergely Christmas, the mayor of the Dialogue, said: the government holds a gun to the head of the capital. That's what you call, and I quote literally, discussing equal parties. Indeed, the parties are equal, but they are not even equal, they are not talking to each other, they are not even fighting each other, but you are terrorizing the capital, terrorizing the opposition-led cities, terrorizing the free settlements that said no to Fidesz's overpower in October last year. So instead of fighting culture, this is cultural terrorism, and in the event of a crisis, you are able to introduce in this context a law that is about the minister himself being the principal employer of the theatre directors, so you want to tell yourself who should lead the theatres in the capital or in the metropolitan metropolitan city. [[L. Simon László: That's not what this is about! You've got a textual problem. The president's ringing the bell. L. Simon László: This is unbelievable!]] There are a lot of social services, not only in the field of culture, where we taxpayers pay the check together from the state register, and yet it is the local government that appears in the life of the institution as a maintainer, operator and political control practitioner. [[L. Simon László: Give an example.]] What hasn't been nationalized is like this, so kindergartens, kindergartens can be like this. There's no reason to change that at the theatres, and so far there's no reason. Interestingly, the capital of István Tarlós [[L. Simon László: It's never been like this! You're lying!]] When the same was the case, they did not want to deprive the capital of the right to appoint theatre directors. Moreover, the practice of Gergely Christmas and the Republican capital has given you no reason to take such desperate, violent action because your theatre people have not been fired. I understand that there are some Fidesz vassals who have received a theatre, and know precisely that they are unfit to lead it professionally, we all see exactly what results and inefficiencies theaters led by fidesz mamelukes often bring, but here there will not be any professional decision on the appointments, as has been the case in Gergely Christmas. So this step was not only infinitely dishonest and mean, but also completely unnecessary, and it shows the desperation, the trauma that Viktor Orbán has been unable to overcome since 13 October. So there would be a really serious problem here, a crisis, an emergency, the coronal virus epidemic, and after the government of Viktor Orbán is performing very poorly in its treatment, therefore he is trying to create a national division instead of national unity with all kinds of political tricks: at the same time he must fight the epidemic, and with the opposition, because he loves it and that is what his political interest dictates. That's why the completely insufferable delegation law, to which they tried to get it, enforce the four-fifth mandate, didn't get it very correctly, we're very proud of it. I am personally proud of all my opposition fellow Members who have resisted this pressure. And that's why they're re-introducing this law, which has nothing to do with crisis management, which is all about your economic violence, cultural terrorism, to have something to argue about, to have something to stand against each other for. If you really want to help, if you really want to support the people who work in culture, you would not be worried about which vassals will win the theater contest and which institutions you will manage in the next period, but about what will happen to the theatre workers, what will happen to those who now lose most or all of their income, what will they make a living out of. And of course, this is true not only for theatre workers, not only for those working in culture, but also for hundreds of thousands or perhaps millions of Hungarian citizens: in this crisis, they do not know what it is that will ensure their livelihood. So you should be thinking more about how theaters, culture, and everywhere else will ensure the replacement of losses rather than starting to play a new party political power game. The Dialogue says that if we are dealing with culture or theaters separately, then let the law change that the basic income of the theatre workers, the cultural workers, but otherwise everyone else should receive such a basic income of crisis management. This is the only question at the moment about culture that the Parliament should discuss. [[11.40]] The self-limiting that the opposition has observed and that all parliamentary parties have jointly undertaken does not seem to apply to Fidesz anymore. So the agreement that was last confirmed yesterday was already kicked out. That is why I say that you are infinitely dishonest, ashamed that this law has now been brought before the Parliament. [[Dr. László Pósán: The dishonest one is you!]] Of course, the Dialogue will not vote for this. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: that's enough! Shame on you.]] Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-24-49	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, for the first time, Mr László L. Simon, State Secretary Péter Hoppál, Fidesz MEPs, will be the first to take part in a two-minute speech. So it's L. Simon László's turn to ask for a normal word. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-50	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate, very serious things were said from the opposition side, and we have to respond to them. Moreover, not only was Bence Tordai talking about the bill, but Ferenc Gyurcsány was not talking about the bill, and not mostly Ágnes Kunhalmi. [[Bence Tordai: We shouldn't even talk about this bill!]] And I have to say that the tone of our fellow Member from Turda, and what he allows himself, is simply invaluable. I must say that you should be ashamed of yourself, Congressman, this is an outrage, the way you constantly insult the honor of others. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] You'd better get out of the room. [[Bence of Turdai is leaving the meeting room.]] It's the best way to escape. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-51	I suggest we talk about the law, as I said before, okay?
u2020-03-24-52	I'll talk about the law, Mr. President. For the twenty-eightyth time, Congressman Tordai has told me that we are dishonest, and you called on me, so let me give myself that much credit.
u2020-03-24-53	No, unfortunately, according to the rules of the house, it is not possible to criticize the sitting. So, please, let's continue the debate on the law.
u2020-03-24-54	I understand, Mr. President, and I apologize.
u2020-03-24-55	It's okay.
u2020-03-24-56	But speaking of which, Congressman Tordai asked what this bill was doing in front of Parliament. 53 of our fellow Members voted against the exceptionally urgent procedure. This means that many of our opposition fellow Members voted in favour of the exceptionally urgent procedure. I suggest that my fellow Member from Torda consult with them on how this bill came before the House. In addition, I believe that it was clear from the national exposé and from the pro-government speeches why this bill was now needed to be discussed. We did not create a situation where the capital wants to withdraw entirely from the funding of seven theaters. Let's not set things up like this. In this respect, neither Ferenc Gyurcsány, Bence Tordai and Ágnes Kunhalmi were telling the truth. It follows, therefore, that it is obviously not true that the same was the case at the time of István Tarlós's mayor, because during the time of István Tarlós it did not even occur that the capital did not finance its own institutions, nor did it come to mind that it would withdraw entirely from the financing of its own institutions. Dear colleague Bence Tordai, What you said here was obviously a lie. Plus, you're arguing that our people weren't fired. What kind of people are you talking about? So you're the one who's cataloging people based on what their political views are? Or how do you determine who our man is at the head of the theaters and who your man is? Because it's not an art aspect, it's not about the freedom of art, it's not about the aesthetic work of theatres. You, my honourable fellow Member, brand theatre directors on a political basis. For example, I do not know which parties Gábor Máté, Eszenyi Enikő, Adele Kováts voted for. So you're aware of the parties that others vote for from among the theatre directors? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I'm not aware of that. The only thing I can tell you, fellow Members: during the two cycles of István Tarlós, Gábor Máté remained at the head of his theatre, at the head of the Katona József Theatre, Enikő Eszenyi remained at the head of the Vígszínház. We could continue to list the theater directors in the capital, who remained in their place, Pál Mácsai, at the head of the Örkény Theatre. I must say, fellow Members, that we should go to the theatre more and see the artistic program of these theatres than that you are here making politics out of the world of theatres. I can also recommend it to Ferenc Gyurcsány, who quoted the third one so beautifully. From Richard, I've decided to become a villain. Is this ars poetica, Prime Minister Gyurcsány? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Or why he quoted me as III. Richard's famous sentence? In any case, I have to say to Ferenc Gyurcsány: you have to go to the Radnóti Theatre to see Róbert Alföldi starring the III. I saw Richard a few weeks ago, and I need to see how the second act begins and what kind of actual political interlude is in that play. And then you have to ask: really, government parties have a political influence on the metropolitan theaters? Was there one politician who said that there was no place for such theatre plays in Hungarian theatre life? What you claim to restrict artistic freedom is clearly an open and harsh lie. You, my fellow Members, my fellow opposition Members and Ferenc Gyurcsány share the leadership in the capital. Lot. The personal battle between Erzsébet Németh and Gergely Christmas, DK's divisive policy, the ongoing distortion and quarrel between the current left-wing leadership in the capital, has resulted in this situation. This is why we have come to the point that you do not want to finance seven metropolitan theatres, that you do not take responsibility, and that is why the government is forced to take over 100% of the funding of these institutions. So there have been some very serious allegations here today, which obviously cannot be ignored. And finally, I can say to my fellow Member, Kunhalmi, that the reason why we are now obliged to negotiate this bill is because in the treaty between the capital and the state, we cannot fix the conditions for the maintenance of the theatres, precisely because the leadership of the capital is unwilling to agree with each other, because the DKs have threatened the dialogueists that they will not vote in the general assembly for what the state and the leadership of the capital could agree with each other. And it's not three theaters, my fellow Member Kunhalmi, it's seven. And at the National Cultural Fund, there is obviously no way to help the theatres that fail to perform. Moreover, my honourable fellow Member, the lack of performances does not result in a loss of revenue, because the revenue from the tickets to the theatre is actually less than what it takes to get a theatre production on stage, but it actually results in savings, no matter how sad it is to say it. So I ask once again my fellow Members to support this bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-57	Thank you very much. I respectfully inform the Parliament and, in particular, Mr Hoppál, that although he has applied for two minutes, as this is a time-frame debate and there are 55 seconds available for Fidesz right now, I can give him the opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-58	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to make a point of order: if possible, we would like to initiate the transfer of the timeframe of the KDNP to Fidesz with respect. In substance, in addition to the subject, Mr L. Simon, my fellow State Secretary, accompanied by the words of my predecessor, a former Minister of State, chaired by a former Minister of Culture: today's debate has developed interestingly. The opposition speakers have left the room, but it is very important to say that the theatre funding has never been so good in Hungary. I'm asking you to appreciate at least that much. And the alarm that Bence Tordai did when he called the pro-government representatives dishonest, which we reject, so the alarm that there would be no pay for the theater workers would be withdrawn, because just yesterday the government made sure that everyone had a stable livelihood. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-59	Thank you very much. It is only a quick reflection that the representative of the proposal can do so, but I can only accept it if the KDNP announces it, or if the KDNP's faction leader or vice-president indicates it in writing. Since he didn't do that, I can't accept your proposal in substance. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal. János Halász: Then it's over.]] As no, I would therefore like to announce that the consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to reflect on what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go. As I recall, you have 17 minutes. Here.
u2020-03-24-60	Mr President, Dear Congresswoman and Lords, I'm trying to go in order and reflect on what's been said. I would like to address the first sentence of Mr Csaba Nagy and Mr László Simon, in which they thank the members of the performing arts for their extremely sacrifice and proper work in the current situation, and I would like to join them. As Secretary of State for Culture, it should be confirmed that in this emerging emergency, staff in the field of performing arts are at the forefront of solving the situation and show cooperation. Thank you for that. The state does not want to take over theatres I would like to confirm this saying, we have heard from Mr L. Simon László, there is no mention that the state wants to take over any theatre. [[11.50]] On the other hand, it is extremely responsible that if someone does not know, they do not want to finance their own theatre, then this theatre should not be closed. This is precisely the situation in which the state must take the lead in this initiative and, yes, do anything to save theatres whose maintenance cannot or does not want to fulfil its obligation to the theatres. I am very pleased that the negotiations with rural theatres and rural municipalities are very successful and in great harmony. You are well aware of this, because you are in close contact with Eger, Dunaújváros, and even with these cities, we are going through very balanced negotiation processes that are in the interest of culture. Several Members have asked why urgency, the exceptional procedure, is necessary. I have tried to explain this in my expo, and please allow me to confirm this once again, because the most affected area in the context of the declared emergency is the performing arts area. The theaters are closed! Well, there's no ticketing. The financing of these theaters must be settled. This process, which we started from 1 January, and it takes place harmoniously in all rural cities, has stalled in the case of Budapest. If we do not do this, then in the case of seven theatres, we can be bankrupt or bankrupt, and this is the kind of responsibility the government feels. In order to facilitate this, we have asked that we make our decision quickly under an exceptional procedure. It is very important for us to stop asking or raising the question of Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, because she does not have good information or does not consult well with her fellow Members in the capital: she says that she will hand over the three and that the four systems of joint operation would be good for them. Well, that would be the happiest thing for us. Well, we'll be happy to accept any offer right away. So if the capital proposes to hand over three theaters and wants to run four and 50 percent together, then we accept that, of course. The problem is there, and it may not be right for our fellow Members, Members and ladies to see that the capital withdraws some funds and transfers it to the full operation of four theatres, so it runs out of money for the theatre, and therefore has to turn to the government for help, and the government gives this kind of help. If you ask for three theaters, if you ask for five theatres, if in the case of seven theatres, of course we stand there and take this kind of responsibility. Congressman Gyurcsány talked about hurting the soul of Budapest, and until he told me to look me in the eye, let the skin burn off their faces! I thought you were talking about something else, maybe the December protest. After all, if the soul of Budapest has been insulted somewhere, then at this demonstration, where a stolen document, a document stolen from my secretary of state, was falsely lured to the streets by thousands of people, talking about how politics should leave the performing arts while building the stage for politics, where the Mayor could march up and say his speech. If the soul of Budapest has been violated somewhere, it is at this demonstration that it has been insulted in my opinion. You spoke of diversity, tranquility and patience, Congressman. I'm very happy, and I'm very happy to hear that she thinks so and sees it that way. He probably missed the briefcase on my desk at the Secretary of State on the replacement of the director of the ZSÖK in Pécs, the replacement of the director of the theatre in Vác, the replacement of the head of Agora in Szombathely, the destruction of Bán Teodóra's application twice or not, the statement of the director to the Mayor by György Dörner and the replacement of the cultural leaders of other opposition cities. I would very much like to send these files to the Member in order to be able to represent the principles of tranquillity, patience and diversity, and I would ask him to have an impact on the mayors who can ensure this in the future. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] I have to stop for a second in relation to Mr Gyurcsány's large-scale speech, as it is a great honour that he values my personal past, my personal professional past, but I must stop and reject it on behalf of all artists if he considers their art to be different, inferior, such as literature, dance art, art and theatre. Talking about training in circus art, talking about art in circus arts is lower than any other co-arts, it's offensive, it's humiliating. I believe that artists who have made a very good name for our country in the world deserve to be talked about with greater respect. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Congressman Antal Csárdi said that theatre funding was underfunded in Hungary. I respectfully request that you examine the data issued by Eurostat. It cannot be said that Eurostat is an organisation close to Fidesz or in Hungary, which has also published the latest data for 2018 after 2016-17, that 1.3 percent of GDP is used to finance culture in Hungary. This puts us at the forefront of Europe. The European average is 0.4 per cent according to this table, and I would like to mention one or two figures: 0.2 per cent in the UK, 0.6 per cent in France, 0.8 per cent in Poland and 1.3 per cent in Hungary. Therefore, the current government provides the most resources to finance culture in Europe. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Good. Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Finally, I have to stop at the comments of Congressman Bence Tordai [[A statement from the Fidesz: It's useless!]] I'm 54 years old, and no one in my life has ever told me that I'm dishonest or mean. You asked me what this amendment was doing here. This amendment is here because your party partner and I agreed in a two-month negotiation process that this amendment must go through in order for Budapest to be able to operate its theatres. I understand the need to make strong and loud comments on political reasons and on the grounds of appearance in the press. I myself, in doing my job, and in my personal life, have never suffered such a thing as being called dishonest and mean 28 times. I have to refuse. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! That's very good. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-24-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we will continue our work at 12:30 p.m. with decisions. I'll take a break. Thank you very much for your cooperation. (Sunning: 11.58 12.37 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. László Varga and Dr. István Tiba)
u2020-03-24-62	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I welcome you all with love. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats, all of you. Now we don't have to put the cards in, but we're going to be checking the presence. I'd like the technical staff to provide us with an inspection of the presence. I would ask my fellow Members to press one of the usual yeses, no, and I abstain from the buttons. Please, now! [[Intercoms: Report!]] Here, please, the present is written, so do not seek yes, no and abstention; the present! [[Attendance check.]] There are 180 of us present, 19 of us are absent. Parliament has a quorum. It follows from the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, the publication of the Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union T/9469. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9469. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 178 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/9471 between Hungary and the Russian Federation on the announcement of the Convention on Social Security. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9471. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 180 votes in favour, without voting against, with two abstentions. Next up is T/9475 on the declaration of Káptalandom as a national memorial place in Győr. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9475. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 158 votes in favour, no votes against, with 23 abstentions. Following is the 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing art organisations. T/9823. Final vote of bill No 1. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed in an exceptional procedure by Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9823. Bill No. 1? Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 132 votes in favour, 31 against and 20 abstentions. Please stay where you are, because I have a very important announcement to make. [[12.40]] Dear Parliament, It follows with the secret vote of the member of the Constitutional Court... [[Some Members are leaving the meeting room. Noise.]] I will do so in this regard, fellow Members, and they will not know where we are voting, when we will vote and how we will vote. [[Intercoms.]] The election of a member of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot follows. Dear Parliament, The ad hoc committee identifying the members of the Constitutional Court S/9717. CLI 2011 on the Constitutional Court. Act No. 7 Acting in its power under §2 (1) of the Act, Mr Miklós Juhász proposes to appoint Mr Miklós Juhász as constitutional judge with effect from 15 April 2020. [[Dr. Miklós Juhász stands up in the box. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Acting in its power under paragraph 2 of this Article, Mr Miklós Juhász proposes to appoint Mr Miklós Juhász as constitutional judge with effect from 15 April 2020. (Dr. Miklós Juhász stands up in the box. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ) Allow me, on this occasion, to give a special welcome to the President of the Constitutional Court, appointed Mr. Miklós Juhász. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Justice Committee has heard the candidate and is in favour of his election. The non-autonomous motion containing the opinion of the committee and the candidate's CV were all available on our website. The Parliament elects the member of the Constitutional Court for 12 years with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. I would ask all my fellow Members to listen carefully to the President's presentation of the voting process, while remaining in their seats. Dear Parliament, The process of the secret vote is as follows: Members can take the ballots from the group corresponding to the initials of their names in alphabetical groups A-F, G-K, L-S and S-Zs on the other side of the House's Lower House meeting hall on the Danube side. I would like to inform you that in the lettering sector, you can receive a ballot and an envelope. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to have a maximum of 50 persons in the corridor appointed for the vote at once, and to comply with this, my colleagues will be of assistance to them. I would ask all Members to wait in the corridor before the dividing cordon set up in front of the alphabetical tables, with a distance of preferably two metres between each other. I also ask that only one person, apart from the notary of the Parliament and the official staff, be present directly at the table during the recording of the ballot paper and the signing of the register. All hand sanitizer and disposable pens in unopened packaging will be available in the alphabetical sectors of the roll. Please take this with you and use it to fill out the ballot paper and then toss it in a paper box placed next to the ballot box for this purpose. Please confirm the fact that the ballot paper is received on the sheets placed with the notaries by signing them. I would like to inform you that the voting booth may also be used in the vote. I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. I would ask Mr István Tiba to briefly explain the rules of the vote, and I would kindly ask my fellow Members to listen to this as well. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2020-03-24-63	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. The valid vote shall be deemed only to be what was cast on the candidate on the ballot-paper, with two incandescent lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the voter takes the ballot, but does not throw it into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2020-03-24-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members and members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the corridor of the Chamber. With all due respect, I would ask all my fellow Members to pay particular attention to compliance with the rules presented and to have a maximum of 50 Members in the Chamber corridor at once. I also ask that we pay attention to keeping a distance of two meters between each other. I announce that 30 minutes are available to cast the votes, so it is possible to do so for 13 hours and 18 minutes accordingly. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a 50-minute break for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation. Thank you very much. (Secret vote: 12.48 13.48) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. László Varga)
u2020-03-24-65	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He found that 158 Members participated in the secret ballot. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidate. On the person of Dr. Miklós Juhász, 158 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes: 1, the number of valid votes is 157, of which the number of votes in favour is 134, the number of votes in favour is 22 and the number of votes in favour is 1. Dr. Miklós Juhász was elected member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 15 April 2020. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath of the new member of the Constitutional Court and the signature of the oaths. I would ask Mr Miklós Juhász, a newly elected member of the Constitutional Court, to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I ask Mr. István Tiba to read out the vows, and I ask Members of Parliament, as usual, to listen to them standing up. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Miklós Juhász steps into the middle of the room. Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]]
u2020-03-24-66	I, Dr. Miklós Juhász, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as a constitutional judge for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-67	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. Miklós Juhász on his election as a member of the Constitutional Court. I wish you good work and good luck. The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would like to ask Mr Miklós Juhász, an elected member of the Constitutional Court, to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Miklós Juhász and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] I now invite Mr István Tiba to present the parliamentary decision on the election of a member of the Constitutional Court to be published. Now, before that happens, you can congratulate the newly elected judge of the Constitution. [[13.50]]
u2020-03-24-68	Parliament's decision to elect a member of the Constitutional Court. Under Article 24 (8) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly elects Dr Miklós Juhász as a member of the Constitutional Court with effect from 15 April 2020. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2020-03-24-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 13.55 13.58) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Győző Vinnai and Dr. László György Lukács)
u2020-03-24-70	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Once again, if possible, please take your seats. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the protection of the Crown Virus until closure. The government referral is T/9790. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Madam Secretary, please.
u2020-03-24-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The new type of coronal virus infection that began last year from China has become a global community, which also seriously affects our country. According to the current state of medicine, a global solution to the epidemic is not known, so every country must develop its own defence strategy in the fight against the coronal virus. Fighting the Crown Virus and protecting the Hungarian people are our common task, but responsible decisions must be taken by the government. On 11 March 2020, the Government of Hungary declared an emergency to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens throughout Hungary under Article 53 of the Fundamental Law. Over the period since then, the government has introduced a number of measures aimed at preventing, slowing down the spread of Covid-19 infection and supporting the fight against infection, protecting human health and mitigating the negative economic impact on citizens, businesses and the country due to the pandemic. We have to realise that not only the magnitude of the disaster that has come upon us is unprecedented, and that not only in the history of the thousand-year-old Hungarian statehood, but also in the whole world, the situation in which we are is unprecedented. [[14.00]] We should all be aware of the need to take responsible decisions in times of distress and that the measures that have been taken and are likely to be before us appear to be unusual and foreign restrictions. Compliance with these, however, togetherness and discipline can be the most important power reserve of the Hungarians. In today's times of distress, these values are essential for the creation and maintenance of national unity. First of all, let us set up a constitutional diagnosis and establish the constitutional situation that has come up with the emergence of the Crown Virus pandemic in Hungary. Our fundamental law sets out what is to be done in exceptional circumstances and what is to be done by a constitutional body, explicitly in detail and with guarantees, in international comparison. Pursuant to Article 53 (1), the Government shall declare an emergency in the event of an elemental disaster or industrial disaster endangering the safety of life and property and may introduce exceptional measures provided for in a cardinal law in order to remedy the consequences thereof. Pursuant to Article 54 (3), the special legal order shall be terminated by the body empowered to introduce a special legal order if the conditions for its publication no longer exist. That is to say, the exclusive competence of declaring an emergency and eliminating an emergency, and therefore the responsibility of the government and the government alone. The constitutional scope of the Government is also laid down in Article 53 of the Fundamental Law. Allow me to quote paragraphs 2 to 4 of this () to (d) of this Article: (d) In the event of an emergency, the Government may issue a decree which may suspend the application of certain laws, derogate from legal provisions, and take other extraordinary measures. (3) The Government's decree (paragraph 2) shall remain in force for 15 days, unless the Government extends the scope of the decree on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament. (4) The Government's decree shall be repealed with effect from the end of the emergency. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What do these provisions mean? On the one hand, the government's powers of emergency, far wider than usual, and essential for effective defence are defined. In other words, it may create a decree to suspend the application of certain laws, derogate from legal provisions and take other exceptional measures. It also provides for when the government's emergency regulations will expire. There should be no particular explanation that this is the result of the cessation of an emergency. However, there are many misunderstandings surrounding the role of Parliament in this decision-making process, which is why it is also appropriate to talk about it now. According to the cited provision of the Fundamental Law, Parliament's powers cover two issues. On the one hand, it is laid down in a fundamental law that the government may suspend the application of certain laws, derogate from legal provisions and take other extraordinary measures. I'm not saying that anyone who claims to be able to provide an accurate catalogue of this situation is lying, but I'm saying that it doesn't open up all the details of the truth. As I have quoted, the Government's emergency decree will, as a rule, remain in force for 15 days. The extension of the scope of these regulations also falls within the competence of the Government, but this is subject to the mandate of the Parliament to extend it. The mandate to extend the scope of emergency measures beyond 15 days is therefore the responsibility of Parliament. To put it simply, if the Parliament does not contribute to this, it will, in particular, lose the measures that have been taken so far. Allow me also to draw the attention of this House to the fact that our previous Constitution has given Parliament less role. All that was provided for in the 35th edition. § 3 that in an emergency, the Government may, under the authority of Parliament, adopt regulations and measures other than those of certain laws. The adoption of the Emergency Rules Act requires two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament present, thus said the former Constitution. Before the entry into force of the Fundamental Law, therefore, the question could not be raised as to what and how often the Parliament would wish to grant authorisation. Dear Parliament, In the light of Articles 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law and Article 54 (1), the proposal establishes the necessary fundamental legal framework that the government will be CXXVIII of 2011 on disaster management and the amendment of certain related laws. In addition to exceptional measures and rules laid down by law, it may take all measures necessary to guarantee the life, health, personal, property and legal certainty of citizens and the stability of the national economy in the context of the human disease caused by Covid-19 infection. The proposal is made in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. § 2 states that the purpose of the normative provisions and measures under (paragraph 1) is solely to prevent, treat, eradicate and mitigate the harmful effects of the human epidemic caused by the Covid-19 infection. In view of the exceptional nature of the situation and the unforeseen nature of the necessary measures, the proposal does not provide a taxing definition of the scope of the measure and norm that the government may exercise. At the same time, the proposal establishes the margin of manoeuvre required by the specifics of the human epidemic, subject to the Fundamental Law, constitutional principles and the rule of law, by setting out the objective of action and of standardising. The proposal is made in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rules under paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article shall also, mutatis mutandis, ensure that the government takes the necessary measures and that it weighs the proportionality of the intervention. The regulation makes it clear that in other emergencies, this regulation does not apply, but only applies to this particular situation in the legal order. Article 3 of the proposal is replaced by the following: Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law. When defining the scope and time limits of the delegation, the proposal takes into account the fact that the government's measures and relevant standards are contained in several government regulations, and therefore sets out the scope of the government decrees affected by the extension of scope in accordance with their regulatory scope and not solely on the basis of a rigid reference. The proposal under discussion confirms all the measures taken since the publication of the emergency situation pursuant to Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law, pursuant to the Government Decree No 40-2020 on the declaration of an emergency, to prevent or eliminate the consequences of the human epidemic which endangers the safety of life and property, and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, and empowers the Government to extend their scope pursuant to Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law. The aim of the proposal is to enable the Government of Hungary to establish and maintain regulations containing extraordinary provisions even if Parliament does not meet in connection with or for such a reason with any human epidemic causing a mass disease caused by Covid-19 infection. The mandate is neither time-limited nor subject-matter, but only until the end of the emergency. [[14.10]] The proposal makes it clear that the decision can be withdrawn at any time. The Parliament does not need to decide on the maintenance of the mandate on the basis of the above arrangement at its forthcoming quorum meetings; a decision is only necessary if the delegation is withdrawn. The Parliament also has the opportunity to withdraw its mandate only in respect of certain measures taken by the Government. In view of the wide scope of measures and standards established by the Parliament, the proposal requires that the Government regularly informs the Speaker of Parliament and the leaders of the parliamentary political groups of the measures taken to prevent an emergency at the Parliament's meeting, failing that. The political wisdom of the Hungarian nation, the power of state organizer, has always been able to find a way to gain strength from its constitutional identity, even in the most difficult conditions. I would like to believe that by adopting this bill, the political wisdom of the nation is manifested, that the nation's instinct to live suggests that we should enforce the principle of primal vivere, deinde philosophare, which is to create the possibility of life first and then argue. Dear House, I must also mention the provisions of the bill concerning elections. Under the Fundamental Law, the body of representatives may declare its dissolution. The rule of the proposal temporarily states in a closed time period that, in the event of a declaration of dissolution of the body of representatives of the local government or of the minority self-government, this decision shall be valid on the day following the end of the emergency. This is also the case where, under the disaster management law, the mayor, or the mayor or the chairman of the county assembly exercise the powers and functions of the representative body of the local government, the metropolitan and county assembly. In the electoral and referendum procedures, the fundamental principle of directness would require the personal participation of all voters. It is easy to see that this would seriously jeopardise the prevention and the eradication of the human epidemic. I am just pointing out how incomprehensible it was across Europe that the first round of French municipal elections was held in this situation. Given that neither electoral or referendum law contains emergency rules, it is necessary to provide for such procedural deadlines to be interrupted in the event of an emergency. It is also necessary to provide that interim elections or referendums may not be held during an emergency. However, the date of the late election or referendum should be set within 15 days of the end of the emergency. Anyone who claims that these provisions constitute unnecessary or disproportionate restrictions also requires that the state exposes voters to a serious risk of infection when collecting recommendations and voting. That would be unforgivable irresponsible. Once again, I stress that the provisions set out above relate only to the time of the emergency and only to interim elections and referendums. Article 2 of the Fundamental Law states that, I quote, the general election of Members of Parliament shall be held in the month of April or May of the fourth year following the election of the previous Parliament, with the exception of the election due to the dissolution or dissolution of Parliament. In addition, Article 35 states that the general election of local government representatives and mayors must be held in the month of October of the fifth year following the previous general election of local government representatives and mayors. So it is a cheap, obscene and obnoxious lie to say that there will be no elections in Hungary in the future. Dear House, In a special legal order, it is necessary to defend itself against the devastating effects of all the dangers that cause the situation. Protecting people's lives, health and the protection of the Hungarian economy is also the first priority in the fight against the coronal virus, by slowing the spread of the epidemic. The effectiveness of defence is therefore a public interest which deserves enhanced criminal protection itself. On the one hand, criminal law must not remain indifferent to the fact that the epidemiological protection carried out by the State is physically hindered. On the other hand, the effectiveness of defense requires discipline and calmness on the part of society. Despite worrying news every day, the country is in order. However, false news, statements deliberately distorting real facts, and rumors can trigger a devastating panic. These are consequences that seriously complicate defence and exacerbate the emergency situation. It is therefore particularly important that discipline, awareness, and reflection on the consequences of described or expressed thoughts now become an increased expectation. People are asking questions and waiting for answers. They are a positive or negative opinion, and they are critical. This fundamental right in the Fundamental Law should not be unduly restricted in times of emergency. At the same time, in addition to the priority protection of freedom of expression, the legislator must be a clear line, since this must also be clearly reflected in criminal material law, in line with its ultima ratio, i.e. its ultimate instrument. Of the many disturbing, disturbing communications, the deliberate lie that threatens the effectiveness of the defense or the false distortion of reality is a crime; it is a crime that deserves strict punishment, because it is a danger to what the whole nation is now fighting for together. In view of all of this, the bill introduces two new facts in the Criminal Code: the obstruction of epidemiological control and the rumours that threaten the effectiveness of protection under the special legal order. The latter offence shall be punishable by imprisonment from one year to five years. Dear Parliament, Over the last few days and weeks, many parties have called for more stringent, further restrictive and more rapid response measures than the measures they have taken so far. In order for the government to take the necessary measures in time, it is necessary to adopt the bill under discussion. Hungary's main representative body is the Parliament, which was established by direct and secret ballot on the basis of universal and equal suffrage, which can express in the most reassuring, without doubt, what the will of the Hungarian nation is in these historical times. I know that the Honourable Parliament is also aware of the responsibility it has faced. The life question of our nation is whether, when and what decision will be taken on the proposal, it will be possible for the Government of Hungary to take exceptional measures to guarantee the life, health, personal, property and legal certainty of people and the stability of the national economy, to the extent necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, to prevent, manage, eradicate and mitigate the harmful effects of a coronal virus epidemic, or to reject this authorisation, as the opposition did in the first instance yesterday, and to significantly make it difficult to deal with the epidemic and its effects, delay the introduction of the necessary measures. During the legislative process, this is the election of Parliament, and only the responsibility of Parliament. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-72	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I would like to ask Mr. Winner Vinnai to explain the time frame.
u2020-03-24-73	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 38 minutes for the MSZP Group, 32 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 44 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the Dialogue for Hungary and 24 minutes for the independent Members.
u2020-03-24-74	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, leader of the Fidesz Group. Mr. Team Leader, here you go.
u2020-03-24-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Not only for the sake of decency and record, but also for the reason that we are serious about the first word in this House regarding the bill, the health, police and military workers, who are rarely mentioned in this context here in this House, are the employees who maintain and control the country's order and health in these difficult days. I would also like to thank the Minister for what she said in the exposé, and also for the fact that in the last few days, in the last week, she has taken part in the seven-party talks with the opposition, which, as it turned out, were completely unnecessary, and she has been constructively involved in it, and has accepted the proposals made by opposition representatives. [[14.20]] But what happened at the Parliament yesterday made everything clear. That is particularly interesting, and since none of the people in this room were there except for me at the seven-party talks, I would be happy to tell you that, for the first time, the opposition representatives had no problems with the norm, they did not raise any concerns. Then a few days went by, there was György Magyar and some designer and so-called civil activists and a big Facebook bubble in which you like to live and everything changed. Here, I note, even the proposals you asked for yesterday were rejected. And after I don't assume, for example, that the rat-housing Bangone has read this bill, so I'd be happy to tell you... [[Uproar and interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP, including Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't get personal! The president's ringing the bell.]] And don't yell at me, Congresswoman, because I'm a patient listener when you speak. Congresswoman, you've landed 3 million Hungarians. It's a matter of fact. You may not like this, but listen to what I have to say. Which I didn't yesterday... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I thought that, according to the socialist concept, I should still be ashamed of myself, not of the one who had landed 3 million Hungarians. Let's keep moving. What you said yesterday was no: from tomorrow morning, non-Hungarian citizens from abroad can enter the territory of the country. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] The Government's decree is quite clear, and since we can only adopt the law on Monday or Tuesday next, so there will be a few days, which will be a dispute, the following measures will cease to apply. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, would you please dismiss the congresswoman, who is spectacularly unable to handle herself? [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-03-24-76	Dear Parliament, Before any further undeserving debate begins, I would ask you to honor the speaker during the speeches by giving him a hearing. Thank you.
u2020-03-24-77	Thus, the ban on entry of non-Hungarian citizens from abroad to the territory of the country will be repealed from among the government's measures. If Hungarian citizens from abroad do not show infection, they should not automatically go to official house quarantine under the government decree, but instead the health administration, the NNK could provide for this by way of a more administrative decision. This increases the risk of an epidemic. For example, those who break quarantine rules could not be expelled from the territory of the country; for example, the case of Iranians who attacked the hospital. Health workers are free to leave the country. It wouldn't be an extraordinary period of judgment. I don't know how you understood yesterday in the heat of the movement that these decisions were not made from the 26th day after tomorrow. This may be a political success for you, but you are taking enormous risks for the country and the population. [[Constant intervention from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's good to live together. And since we still think that the debate of this law, regardless of whether you vote or not, is important, I will continue to include in my speech the need to change your mind. Change your mind. This will be noted in history, and you must be aware that when you make decisions about the everyday life of the Hungarian people, including decisions about their health, decisions about their lives, or buttons about their lives, you will have a much greater burden on all of us, on you, on your faction, on their parties than on a normal parliamentary debate. 'Cause what are you saying? You falsely claim that the mandate is unlimited. Perhaps in the bubble in which many of you live, this can be believed. Maybe they think it's still gonna work, that if we say something a lot, it's gonna work. They may think that people are not well informed. But here sits the secretary, who said her expo, tell her if it's unlimited. When you are asked to speak, tell him that we are reading an unlimited mandate, my dear Minister, the second. Paragraph 2 of the Act, in which you would like to state that the government may exercise its powers to the extent necessary, in proportion to the objective pursued, in order to prevent, treat, eradicate and prevent the harmful effects of the human epidemic under the Regulation. Prevention of human epidemics and adverse effects. What does this look like on your charges? This is an unlimited warrant. When you like to tell us that this unlimited mandate should not be given, then I will tell you the legal situation that is happening, with which you will now be able to eliminate Parliament, and this will have to be assessed by the government. What can the Hungarian Government do in the situation that some of its regulations will expire on Thursday or on the day between Thursday and Tuesday, while Parliament did not contribute yesterday? You can announce it again. [[Dr. Varga-Damm to the intervention of Andrea:]] You can announce it again, can't you? Right? And we took Parliament out of the government's life. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Congratulations, Congresswoman, that was the right answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] For a lawyer, you knew the answer correctly, yes, every 15 days the government can announce this, and if the government did this every time, you would be the most outraged. You just took the National Assembly out of the government's life! There'll be no other way. Tomorrow, the government will decide that, because this obviously results in a conflicting, uncertain situation. But if you had liked to think a little bit, Parliament could take part in this work until it forces the government to publish these regulations again and again in order to prevent the human epidemic. And one more thing: the time limit. Since none of you were at the seven-party meeting, I'd be happy to tell you that 60 and 90 days, as we know today, are going to fall into the most critical period when we can't assess the damage to this country. We made that very clear. We cannot say that the Hungarian Parliament will be able to meet in 60 or 90 days. We also said that there was no opposition group leaders or deputy group leaders who represented any objections to this. Then, suddenly, there was a big realization around Friday last week, and they started demanding 90 days. When everyone knew clearly that it was the same time bar when it was not guaranteed that the Hungarian Parliament could meet undisturbed. So I'm willing to risk making up the 90 days completely consciously. They made it up completely consciously. They didn't say 150, they didn't even say 15. They said the exact time band that could be predicted to be the most critical, 60 days and 90 days. So I would like to say to you that I am not giving up the hope that we can work together on a human epidemic, and I will not give up on the fact that yesterday's action wasn't nice to all of you. I don't just assume that, I know that. I also know that you had internal conflicts about whether you made the right decision yesterday, because some of you still have your conscience and your normal beliefs, and some of you don't really think the crazy thing is that the government is the government that now has two-thirds authority in Parliament to use it for its own stability. Dear Congresswoman and Lords! What decision couldn't we have made over the last few years, which is what you're worried about, which we can now? What is the fundamental law amendment that we couldn't accept? For ten years there have been two thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP government. Do you think it will be in our interest to make a regulation or do we need to amend any legislation? Even if they say it on television tonight, I understand because it's for the public, but do they mean it on their own? Well, we could've taken anything before, couldn't we? You guys said we're gonna modify the constitution the way we want to, right? Then why do you think we need this? No. We don't need anything you're accusing us of right now. What is needed is that the power of the government can be maintained, so that immediate action can be taken, and that all decisions can be made at all times, so that days and weeks, but not hours, remain undecided. And now you've done some damage. At the same time, I say that we cannot do it as the creators of Hungarian politics, as the agents of Hungary, that we do not agree. [[14.30]] However, I would like to ask you one thing: if we agree with you, then it really should be your will. And I'm saying this because, for the first time, no one from the socialists to the Jobbik had a problem with the norm. If those opinion-makers who then changed this decision are the decisive ones, then my suggestion is that they should be sent here in the next round, because we are simplifying life. Then let the designer and the Hungarian György sit in here and I don't know who they really are, who control your political will, because we agreed on a few things, and then you liked to overwrite. So what I would like to ask is that we, the members of the main representative body of the People's Republic, can consider you, the opposition representatives, people with parliamentary mandates as negotiating partners. But I feel that on four occasions I sat completely unnecessary in the seven-party negotiations, because I still had to go to György Magyar and to the designer. Don't be ridiculous. It's about what happened, don't look at me like that. That's what happened. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] And I would like us to agree clearly that, in this situation, it is not in our interest to cooperate with you because it looks good, but it is in our interest to say last week in my speech to Parliament that the country is, after all, one of your voters, of our voters, of many, many social groups. And we believe that when we speak to these people for their safety, it is good that we all say the same thing to them. Because Antal Csárdi's Fidesz voters won't accept what he's saying, and I won't be accepted by the LMP voters. That's why it's good to tell them the same thing, because it's their life. That's why we have to work together. It's not because it's such a great and cloudy atmosphere here, and we have such a great opinion of each other. Collaboration is not about each other's judgment, it's about responsibility for people. And I'd like to ask you to change your mind about what happened yesterday. Any such opposition, any such political debate that we may have here, of course, is why we have come here today to read well to each other, but any such political debate will harm what is essential for disease management. I therefore ask you to reconsider what has happened in the vote on this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-24-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two political groups presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-24-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Not so long ago in this room, we heard an oath, and the oath was that the new Constitutional Judge swears on the Fundamental Law, and he himself said what everyone in this room has already said, that he does his work on the basis of the spirit and letters of the Fundamental Law. Who's doing this T/9790. it has submitted a proposal and does not take into account the provisions of the Fundamental Law and does not follow its spirit. On 11 March, the government tabled, i.e. the government issued a decree declaring an emergency, and since 12 March, we have been expecting everyone to know that this threat will not go away in 15 days, that the Parliamentary resolution proposal will arrive on the basis of Article 53 of the Fundamental Law, which will prolong the emergency. That's what we've been expecting since March 12th. Then what did the government and the Fidesz group do? He presented a new law which does not in any way comply with Article 53 of the Fundamental Law and, of course, is not a parliamentary decision proposal. Of course, we could say they found another legal solution, but no. This new law does not contain authorisation under Article 53 of the Fundamental Law or an extension of the emergency, but introduces completely new rules, effectively overwrites the Fundamental Law. In the intro, he says that Parliament can pause as a result of the epidemic. This assumption is included in the introduction to the law. Question: "Why can Parliament pause?" How many do you need to have a quorum? Have we read statistics, or have we experienced conditions in countries more affected by the epidemic, that 100 out of 200 people are sure to be ill to the extent that they can't even operate electronically? No such data was received from the WHO, nor from any country more affected by the epidemic. This draft legislation says that it lays down specific emergency rules. But you know what's not in there? Renewal of the emergency. This is not included in this legislation, although Article 53 of the Fundamental Law clearly requires that the emergency situation be extended if the Parliament considers that the emergency situation extended by the Government is approved. This is not in this legal place. We will debate a lot more about this, how people see the text of the Fundamental Law, but after I was involved in the discussion of the Fundamental Law at some point, let them look back on the minutes, for example, in this passage, there was a lot of debate about how this should be applied. Article 2 § 2 states that, in addition to the powers set out in the Disaster Protection Act, it will determine additional powers for the government. So what's this new law about? It goes beyond the disaster management bill. It lays down new rules, although when the disaster protection law was being debated in this House, the government and Fidesz clearly said that in all cases, which could only happen in our lives, there would be no need to grant the government additional rights by means of separate laws. Article 3 § 2 says that the government is empowered to extend the scope of the emergency ordered under its own decree. What does that mean? It does not mean what Máté Kocsis just said, that Parliament will decide when the emergency will end, and Parliament will have the right to put an end to the emergency. No, not at all. [[Máté Kocsis: I didn't say that! Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This will be the exclusive power of the government, and Parliament will have no opportunity to do so in the world, unless once the two-thirds majority of the ruling parties are willing to come into the House and bring it to an end. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: More Discipline!]] Here, I'll ask you why it's not unlimited. If it is left to the two-thirds majority of Parliament and the government it has created, how long will this emergency last, would you say where is any kind of democratic government that can be controlled by Parliament? There isn't! For example, my question is why it is not included when it is already said that it is not unlimited that this law or the scope of this law will be applicable until the end of the WHO-defined epidemic. Because the pandemic has been declared by the WHO. And as we hope it will come to an end, WHO will find out once there is no new patient in the last country that this is over. I am not talking about 60 days, I am not talking about 90 days, I am talking about 120 days, I am talking about an objective circumstance that neither you nor I nor anyone can influence but biology. And that's how this epidemic is gonna end someday. And there is an independent world organization who will be able to declare that the epidemic has ceased. Then tell me, if you have tabled this proposal with kindness, if you really believe that you do not wish to abuse it, why could you not, for example, include this condition, that until the WHO announced an epidemic threat has ceased? ! I don't think if you'd been kind enough to do that, there'd be any problem. But how interesting: the proposal says that Parliament may not be convened. And the Constitutional Court? Well, it is perfectly defined how you will be able to make decisions on a new order of business, even though, forgive me, I do not wish to violate anyone at this time the average age of constitutional judges of the Constitutional Court is more than the average age of Members of Parliament. [[14.40]] He says it can't be an interim election and it can't be a national or local referendum. I understand what you have said, Minister, that you may not wish to expose citizens to such a vote or election if you have to meet someone who is infected, or if you are sick, you cannot exercise your right to vote, and even the access to it is difficult because there is a threat to the epidemic. I understand that, it's just the problem, and always remember that Fidesz brought the biggest political capital out of the referendums for himself, remember, that's when his image began to rise, and that's the political result that finally happened. There is also a justification for the excellent conduct of the government during the floods and the migrant crisis, and for the example that we have had. The thing is, interestingly, they didn't choose this method at the time. Then, indeed, Parliament has contributed to the extension, and they have never dared to go beyond what is already in this proposal. They talked about health care, law enforcement, police, for example, the Prime Minister gave up the troops yesterday. There's one small problem. This is nice to say in this House, but the practice is completely different. Think of the fact that soldiers, policemen, are being held in the barracks, there is not an on-call and standby system from home, but they are there without protective equipment, in fact completely exposed to all of them, each other, to the epidemic. If the prime minister's gonna expect the military and the police to do so, why don't we protect their health? Or why don't we protect the medical staff with the protective equipment? I'm gonna tell you that law enforcement and medical personnel are gonna be sick first because they don't have protective equipment. This proposal says that the government's future measures are already approved by this law. It is clear from Article 53 of the Fundamental Law that Parliament must approve decisions. There is no such thing as an unknown decision being approved in advance by a law. It's a wooden iron ring! That is why I said at the beginning that the spirit of the Fundamental Law is completely different. Let me give you a few more thoughts. If you were able to determine the 31st of December for the credit-payment moratorium because you did it very well with your regulations, then please tell me why it could not be defined in this bill 31st of December! I'd like to talk to you about one more question. There are one and a half million double citizens in Hungary, Hungary's population is about 9 million 700 thousand, which is huge compared to the population. I'm sure you know there's no way to make a rule that a citizen of a country can't return home. In this way, it is now taking out the passport of the dual citizens to which they are entering. Can you imagine that the fact that potential 1.5 million people cannot be controlled in any way, no matter what government decrees they make, and no matter how long the emergency is announced, for example, is this a serious epidemiological issue? 'Cause with the passports, there's no address card, and there's no record of where that citizen actually lives. For example, why did you not think of such questions? But in order not to increase the number of words and to give my fellow Member enough time, my questions are as follows. Do you need this law to have enough protective equipment and masks? Do you need this law to avoid 70 billion forints of hospital debt? Do you need this law to give soldiers protective equipment, not to sit in the barracks, but to go home on standby? Because in order to know about it, our Polish brothers only have an on-call system, they sent the soldiers home so that they wouldn't be able to be together. NATO's down to 25 percent, and they've sent the other soldiers home. Or, for example, the supply of protective equipment to the police? And what is most outrageous: Marcell Biró sent to all the ministries that there can be no home office in the ministries, even though we know that a lot of ministerial staff could work at home office, but no, not at Hungarian ministries. Say, you need this law to introduce a humane activity with this, for example! ? So there's enough hospital capacity for serious patients, you don't like to say that's the law, do you? No! We need to steer. It is also necessary to have the capacity to steer in normal condition. Do you need this law to reduce price speculators? You don't have to. The government has that opportunity right now. And finally, do you know who really showed what you can expect? Their mayors, who, in this situation, were able to make decisions that perfectly thwarted all principles of self-government. What I can tell you is that they, the Fidesz mayors, are the disaster hyenas, and the non-fidesz mayors are the responsible city leaders, of course respect for the exception, for those Fidesz city leaders who didn't do such a bad thing. So what I can say is that this legislation is not what the Fundamental Law requires in Article 53, and it is also very specific that you voted against the proposal by several factions to extend the emergency. Why is that? Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-24-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group, another lead speaker of the group. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Once again, I apologize for the fact that on the notary of the bench, while Matthew Kocsis insisted that what was otherwise false, I tried to indicate with my hand that his position was wrong, so I apologize to you, too. However, I must respond to what Matthew Kocsis said, and I have a witness to it. It was said that the opposition representatives, who were at the seven-party meeting, did not say any reactions. Máté Kocsis is not here, so I must tell you, Minister and Minister, if you recall, I was there, and this was not the first, but the second meeting. At the second meeting, you were sitting around like this, with one of your fellow State Secretarys sitting next to them, Mr. Balázs Orbán, who happened to be sitting next to me, Máté Kocsis. And what the opposition said was that Tamás Harangozó started the comments, the first thing the opposition said was that what you sent was written down to me, and I'm about to tell you, at 16:32 p.m. at the time, the proposal for a consultation was the first about where the time limit was. That was the first time. But in order to rewind the wheel of time chronologically: Máté Kocsis was still there when Gergely Gulyás held it, when we talked to Gergely Gulyás about the need to legislate, it would be necessary for the government to be authorised, Gergely Gulyás himself said that he was obviously a non-governmental position, and it must be added correctly, but he said that he can personally support us to put a definite date into this mandate. You can say that he could not have known those facts, those models, the calculations of what would happen after 30, 60, 90 days or several months. But then he came up with the right constitutional and the right legal concept, and he reacted the way a lawyer should, saying that everything should be set in its way and in the middle of the gold, i.e. with a deadline. That was Gergely Gulyás's position. That was on March 13, two days after you announced the emergency. Now let's see what's wrong. I'm telling you, it was a waste of time. We know and saw that it was a huge task to organise protection quickly and effectively. There were flaws in it, there are flaws in it right now, but you must have lost track of time. It should have been when Gergely Gulyás and I were discussing these issues, bringing in the legislation that you should not have had to have had, but a simple majority, and then two thirds of the mandates, for the cornerstones, and we could have discussed it, and today we could have voted on this proposal, because we were before the date that we should have voted here by four fifths majority, otherwise by way of house rule. You had your chance. It is a pity to point out in this position that everything is a mistake of the opposition and that only the opposition could not be expected. The thing is, you guys just missed the beat, 'cause we know there was a lot of urgency over defense, and you just missed it. They hesitated and went the wrong way, it was probably one of the things that could be removed from this. But let's make some legal arguments. What's to stop you from bringing in the proposal that could have been made sooner? I just told you they had time to file it. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent you, which Matthew Kocsis indicated, that at 15:00 a.m., the government would simply say that it would again declare an emergency and that all the regulations that expired on the march would be extended. [[14.50]] That, to the sense of security and danger of the people, you would appeal to the hatred of the opposition that you are doing, the Facebook page near you, the various media close to you, threaten the Members of Parliament, which was never their own to be called murderers, so that all sorts of apologies for the word, motherfuckers, we can tolerate them, we're Members, but you know, whoever provokes this kind of hatred and, in this country, gets out of control, will be responsible for the pro-cont. This applies not only to opposition representatives, but also to you: whoever has such hatred in people will have the consequences. It is clear, and there is no debate that the emergency must be extended, and Jobbik supports that we must pay attention to the mandate of the government until a certain date. Jobbik does not ask for much: Jobbik and the opposition say that what we want is not to have regulation governance without a time limit, and the most important thing is that Viktor Orbán can use Parliament as an appropriate cooperative partner. Therefore, their 90-day argument and the argument they made in this regard will basically fall. And then I'll give you a very simple example and allow me to offer you here a statement from your fellow Member, László B. Nagy. We were supposed to be unable to meet here in 90 days. B. Our great fellow Member sat there somewhere instead of the voluntary quarantine. You have the right of heart, and you may have done the right thing, and I'm not saying that, but what is the reason why in 90 days the Members should not be sitting here in the same way, and not in the same argument system as Mr B. Nagy said they should be here? He wrote that: "It is mandatory to appear in Parliament, and Members have the responsibility to society to attend the meeting at the time of the above decision. That's what he said, it's our duty. Then why do you argue that in 90 days' time, someone will not do this obligation when in a minor emergency, László B. Nagy, may not be right, but he was here? And here's where we'd all be when we were needed in 90 days or 60 days. What's still important, and because of running out of time, I may be able to tell you the rest of it later: our comments on the Btk. The government rightly believes that in some way action must be taken in relation to the obstruction of defence, concerning the spread of rumors; this must be taken strictly, it is quite obvious. However, in this case, the condition of the effectiveness of defence is a circumstance that, if we look at it correctly, can be judged on the basis of historical facts, data, data from international cooperation and comparison, i.e. correctly the criterion of the effectiveness of defence will be impossible to determine at the time of the indictment, but even later, in the judicial department, because who will be able to say that the defence which someone sought to frustrate or foiled the effectiveness of the defence really stood up, so would it have been effective or effective? So what is certain: I think this is an anti-law provision, and the main problem is that the restriction of freedom of opinion must be a fairly clear norm. This current norm content is not clear enough. I also know, and I can tell you that, by the way, there was a time when the Fidesz fraction itself wanted to let go of this fact, because otherwise it would not be possible to prove it, and it would not be possible to apply it properly before the courts, because applicability is also limited. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But that's not our main problem, and that wasn't our main criticism. The main criticism, you know, is the time frame. We have tabled amendments to this, please support them. [[The president's ringing again.]] And finally, I ask for a moment of patience, Mr President: it is enough of the frivolousness of the government, it is time to demand the immediate release of mandatory home quarantine, because you must also acknowledge and know that tomorrow's victims have been infected yesterday and today. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-24-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2020-03-24-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Fellow Members! Quickly at the beginning, just so there is no difference of opinion between us: here Andrea Varga-Damm claimed that the government did not need the mandate of the Parliament. Then I suggest that we interpret the text of the Fundamental Law together, which says in the section on emergency proceedings, in paragraph 3: the decree of the Government (paragraph 2) will remain in force for fifteen days, unless the Government is and the relevant part comes here - on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament, extending the scope of the regulation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks with the authority of the two-thirds Fidesz! The president's ringing the bell.]] So the thing is, the Parliament cannot be left out of this by virtue of the Fundamental Law. So when Andrea Varga-Damm says that the government can extend the scope of the regulation on its own, she simply makes a statement contrary to the Basic Law. So let us at least agree on the interpretation of the Fundamental Law. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Text interpretation!]] I think it is welcome that we agree on some basic things in the fight against the corona virus: we agree that this poses extraordinary dangers and we also agree that we must do everything we can to protect it. We can see that the government has rightly, at the right time, declared an emergency from its own experience or from the experience of other nation states, and this emergency has empowered the government to introduce special measures, as exceptional measures are necessary in exceptional circumstances. Here are some of the things that have already been said, I would also like to add the distance education of the university, the prohibition of events, the imposition of voluntary quarantine to those returning from abroad, or the limitation of the opening hours of the shops. These are the necessary measures now being put at risk by the fact that you did not vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act yesterday. So I think that there is no debate between us that these are necessary and proportionate measures, and that the legal situation, I think, is quite clear: in order for the government to continue its work, it needs the mandate of Parliament under the Fundamental Law. So, in summary, we can say that it is a pity to sugarcoat it, but yesterday's vote against made it difficult to defend itself against the coronal virus. I also see that there are sober-thinking politicians, former politicians who disagree with you; I suggest you listen to them, too. And here I am looking specifically at the right-wingers, because your former party president said that in this situation they should have voted for this, and I think Gábor Vona has experience in the fact that in an emergency, when Hungary is in danger of serious and real danger, he misses strategic decisions. Gábor Vona did this once when he voted against the constitutional amendment to the resettlement quota, so he knows from experience that such important and serious decisions should not be made. That is why I think, and I propose to our better fellow Members that they listen to their former President, and now they have the opportunity to improve, to vote for this law next week. However, it is perfectly natural for all opposition representatives to ask for guarantees and guarantees. The question is whether these guarantees are available. In our clear view, there are many guarantees that the extraordinary legal order cannot be abused. That's why I think you did what you did yesterday for some other reason. Why, since this is not the time for party political debates, I would leave it open now, and I would like to say a few words to you about guarantees. Obviously, the most important and fundamental guarantees in a rule of law should be legal guarantees, but I would add two more: fact-based guarantees and political guarantees. If I may, let me first say a few words about facts-based guarantees. [[15.00]] And that is because the Fidesz-KDNP government is in the fortunate or unfortunate situation that we have already had some crises. These included economic, industrial disaster and floods, natural disasters, immigration and, therefore, a crisis of a civilisation nature. I do not ask you to be classified as "A" because no one works perfectly, whichever man works, makes a mistake, but perhaps we can agree that these crises have been handled well by the Fidesz-KDNP government, taking the necessary steps, at the necessary time, proportionate and, moreover, in keeping with the current constitutional framework, never crossing it. I think that there is no difference of opinion between us as regards the current epidemiological and health measures, so you opposition representatives agree with them. There is only so much disagreement between us in economic action that you, of course, easily expect more measures from the government, but do not criticise the measures taken. Of course, the question is how credible it is, let's say, to accept economic proposals from a DK representative, because let's not even think about what would happen if this epidemiological situation had found the country in the state in which it was, let's say, in 2008, Hungary. Then we would probably not be talking about economic protection packages, job protection and family support, but about restrictions and the IMF's policies to Hungary. But thank God, since in recent years the government has conducted a responsible economic policy and a responsible fiscal policy, it has now had scope to take these steps. So in this, too, I think we have an agreement. So the facts always show, and this must be some kind of guarantee, that crises have always been handled and managed properly by the Fidesz-KDNP government. But, of course, there are legal guarantees, which are the most important. I think that you may be sensitive to legal guarantees, but it is a bit hypocritical when Gergely Christmas announces that she wishes to govern by regulation, but I would like to stress it: she promises to agree with the other factions, otherwise they are somehow not so squeamish with regard to the guarantees against it. I think that the Minister's exposé has also provided you with a number of arguments that can reassure you that, in this extraordinary situation, I understand, your assumption is that this will mean that the ugly Fidesz government, which has been trying to introduce dictatorship for years, will abuse it. But that's not true. And the most important guarantee, ladies and gentlemen of the House, is the Fundamental Law itself, because it is clear in the Fundamental Law what the constitutional obligation of the government is. It states in Article 54 that the special legal order shall be terminated by the body empowered to introduce a special legal order if the conditions of its publication are not met. And since the emergency must be announced by the government, it is therefore a constitutional obligation for the government to eliminate the emergency if the epidemic is no longer present. Not to mention that Article 21 (3) of the Fundamental Law also states that the Constitutional Court annuls the law or legal provision contrary to the Fundamental Law. So if someone wants to abuse this and it is absolutely clear that an epidemic has passed, then, of course, the Constitutional Court would do so. I am not talking about it now, because in many cases it has been said that the mandate you call unlimited is not unlimited in terms of scope, scope or duration. But you have already mentioned this, Mr Group Leader and Minister. And there's the third political guarantee. You don't really think that the Hungarians, who are now very disciplined in thanking them for following the authority's instructions, would be able to endure for one minute that any government, on the basis of authority, would unduly maintain the declared emergency for more than a minute? If any government would do that, do you know what people would do very well? I'd send them away like they sent Ferenc Gyurcsány after he found out he lied to the whole country. That's what they would do. And here I have to say one more word about Peter James's comment, because not only does he talk in Parliament about the coup d'état and that the purpose of the Fidesz-KDNP now is to implement the coup d'état and to eliminate the 22nd and the 26th elections, the Minister has given his legal rebuttal, but the situation is that I would like to send a message to Mr.Péter Jakab through my fellow Members, that the moment of truth for him, we hope, will come very soon. Because we Hungarians are united, if you do not want to participate in this cooperation, then your souls are on it, but we will unite and we will defeat the coronal virus epidemic. The Hungarian people have survived many crises, the Hungarian nation has survived many tragedies, and we will survive this, too, and then, of course, in accordance with its constitutional obligation, the government will eliminate the crisis, contrary to all your baseless references and accusations. However, we will not forget that we will remind the Hungarian people that in the most difficult time, in the most difficult time, they have made it harder for the government to defend themselves for reasons beyond foundation, because of lies when they have formulated lies that we want to eliminate the elections. I hope that these guarantees, which I have listed, will convince you, because I really trust you now, as Mr Máté Kocsis, that, despite the fact that yesterday you voted as you did, the arguments that we have put forward, Minister, will convince you, and you will see that Gábor Vona is right in this case. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The opposition must also stand by the government, and in this situation we must show solidarity, which is in Hungary's interest. Of course, KDNP will give the government the necessary authority in next Tuesday's vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, another lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, Before I begin to say this, allow us to thank healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, epidemiological experts, law enforcement workers, soldiers, staff of the operational tribe and everyone involved in the control of the virus from here. We would also like to express our greatest respect and thanks to them. I think that this is the responsibility and duty of all of us. We would also like to thank Minister for the work that the Ministry of Justice has been doing in recent days, as many regulations, economic measures affecting people's everyday life, epidemiological measures, various measures resulting from exceptional legal order are published in the Gazette. Obviously, there's a lot of professional work going on behind these, too. We would also like to thank you for this work being done efficiently and quickly. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, there is a situation. It is not our duty to judge that this is the case in history, and it will be judged by posterity, but in these four years we are definitely at the trial of one of the most important laws here in Parliament. This Parliament is making many important laws, we have discussed many important topics in the last two years, and we hope that we will continue in the next two years, but this is now a turning point. The thing is, now we have to take responsibility for these decisions, and now it's time for everyone to take responsibility. I understood from the speech by my fellow Member László Lukács when he asked why we did not submit another type of bill a week ago, a proposal for a resolution, why we did not pass this through a half-law or perhaps a two-thirds law. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not want to take part in the defence, you do not want to take responsibility. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Is that the answer?]] We said we'd take responsibility for the defense, we said we'd take responsibility for the decisions. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] But you wanted half and two-thirds resolution proposals so you wouldn't have to take responsibility so you wouldn't have to press a button. [[15.10]] And when the time came yesterday, and they should have taken responsibility for their actions, country, defence, health of Hungarian people, they chose their petty political interests instead of the health of Hungarian people. That's what happened yesterday. As Mr. Máté Kocsis said, this is a decision that has been changed from one moment to the next. On Friday, Thursday, opposition parties did not stand that way, they were going to vote for this derogation from the House Rule of Decision, only the organizations of György Soros, the TASZ, the Amnesty [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr.Hungarian György is a prison-business lawyer, various liberal leaders marched, the Index marched, 444 marched, and you have been told that you, ladies and gentlemen, cannot support the government's bill, you cannot authorize the government, you cannot take part in the fight against the epidemic, you must not take part in effective protection against the human epidemic, because you are not allowed to do so, and you have been forbidden to do so. Organisations financed from outside, abroad, liberal opinion leaders have forbidden you to vote for this law, even for Jobbik. I understand this hurts you. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You should see a doctor.]] I mean, I get that they've gone down to this point, and it's causing inner-conscious tension, but that's what happened. It was particularly funny in this not very positive situation, in which Hungary is now involved, but it did bring a smile to our faces on the weekend that both the Gyurcsány Party and the socialists tried to harass people with different cocoa and milk laws, and they said that they were a dairy power for milk power in Hungary, but that one agricultural issue did not give their vote. We would like to thank DK and MSZP for this smile for a few minutes in the difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I've seen your opposition press release today. My question is when a similar one will be issued because of the dictatorship in Budapest, that Gergely Karácsony suspended the meeting of the Metropolitan Assembly for an indefinite period in Budapest. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is the disaster law!]] in one person Christmas with Gregory's decree [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's the law! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He will control Budapest. Where is your announcement of the dictatorship in Budapest? Where? ! I would also like to ask my better colleagues that Gergely Christmas leads by regulation in one person, suspended the Budapest Assembly. Where are your different worried messages? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is the disaster law! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's the law!]] Where is the signature collection of György Magyar, where is the better concern? We don't really see him. I find it particularly outrageous that László György Lukács, my right-wing colleague, talks about the words that you have on various Facebook pages, while going up to your main portal, on zsurpubi.hu, on the front page today Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is masked to a Nazi dictator. That's your style. This is your style, don't ask us to account for what you are called on the Internet, in social media, after your decision yesterday, when you have sunk to this point, to portray the Hungarian Prime Minister as a dictator, and also as a Nazi dictator, in your number one propaganda fund, Zsúrpubi. That's where you're going! That's what Gábor Vona can't participate in, and that's why he wrote the statement that took the party's soul, and now he sees that he's come very deep even after that. My colleague Andrea Varga-Damm missed the fact that there was no extension of the emergency situation in the bill. That's what you said. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I didn't say that!]] I'd like to give you the answer. Article 3 of the proposal is replaced by the following: Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law states that the National Assembly authorises the Government to extend the scope of the Government Regulations under Article 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law in emergency situations until the end of the emergency. The answer to the congresswoman's question is right there. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what I'm talking about!]] The congresswoman also asked a number of questions on this point about the contribution of this law to the acquisition of masks, protection, the provision of soldiers, and the care of police officers. Yes, the answer is yes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Where?]] The answer is that it is you who have not contributed to this, you have not contributed to the acquisition of masks. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Ouch!]] the equipment of the police, the soldiers, the help of the medical staff, and you have not agreed to allow us to take these extraordinary measures. There is an extraordinary situation and therefore the extraordinary situation requires extraordinary decisions, speed and efficiency. I don't know if you guys started to transfer credit after the button push yesterday, which would be due on Friday, because the mortgage moratorium could be suspended by your decision, and you started preparing the references, starting to prepare your children again, so that you had to go to school physically. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what I'm talking about!]] I wonder if they did these things. I ask you to change the shameful decision you made yesterday and to improve it next Tuesday, because you chose the party political battle instead of the health of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-24-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm to acknowledge that we are listening to our fellow Members in the lead speaker's round. I think that this has been done with dignity in this House so far. You yelled at the whole speech. I don't want to warn you, I'll close the debate here, but if you want, I'll do this. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was already afraid that the whole debate would be closed, Mr President, but then it was only the debate with the Member. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the pro-government speeches here, I have to say that, unfortunately, I was right. You are instigating me in the meanest, most disgusting way against opposition representatives. They allow themselves styles and manners which, according to the already adopted House Rule amendment, I can only signal to Mr. President that he is exhausting indecent speech, but they are obviously not intended to violate this rule, but, above all, to find another enemy, Árpád Habony has returned home, to build another communication that covers their failure to protect the epidemic. It is the lowest and most disgusting because, in fact, opposition representatives are accused of preventing disease control measures, and here they have shown what will happen here on Thursday. My fellow Members, the Fidesz government, Viktor Orbán, did not submit to Parliament to extend government regulations, the scope of government regulations in an emergency. You are endangering the health of Hungarian people! You're endangering the protection of epidemics. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]] 'Cause they didn't bring in the government regulations that could have been passed by half a law. And I'm sorry, and I'm sorry, apart from house rules, because if government regulations had been brought here, the opposition would have given us the fourth mandate, and we would have even voted in favour of these provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no consensus between us, because 133 of the bravest Hungarians are not sitting here, but the bravest Hungarian people are in hospitals. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes!]] who've been doing their job for weeks without protective equipment. In the social sector, there are the bravest people who deliver food to the elderly, to the children, who help those who are now to be cared for in their homes. They are the bravest Hungarian people, not you! And speaking of discipline and order, what is László B. Nagy doing here in Parliament? What were you doing here? ! And I'm sorry, when they tell us to avoid personal contact, we see that the Fidesz faction leader congratulates the new constitutional judge with great handshakes. What example do you set? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes! Ágnes Kunhalmi:]] The opposition representatives are not your enemies and our enemies are not you, but this virus. Oh, you can't post the virus? Oh, you can't list the virus? And then we have to figure out a way to deliberately create a situation where opposition representatives can be attacked? You guys did this on purpose, you made that up in the very first place. They figured out how to create a situation to attack opposition representatives and then list them and then threaten to have consequences here. You must account for your own conscience as to why today we have not been able to vote on extending the scope of government regulations. Mr Secretary, why couldn't we vote on this today? Tell me why we couldn't vote on this. Why didn't you bring these government regulations on distance education, border lock, quarantine? Why aren't they here? We could have decided today, extended it. They did not do that, but created a situation where opposition representatives could be attacked. You're asking for cooperation, and you're telling us to change our minds. [[15.20]] All right. Here is the amendment that we have tabled. Let us extend the scope of the regulations to 90 days in the subject that you are asking for, and if Parliament cannot meet, let the House Committee create the opportunity to extend it electronically for another 30 days. It's 120 days, isn't it? ! Why don't you vote for it? Vote for it, and we'll vote for the law. Make a gesture, that's what I asked you to do, but you don't want to make a gesture, you want to instigate me, you're instigating me, you're instigating me in a mean way. The mood is created by you, you are the ones who refuse to acknowledge that trust is the most important thing today. And once again, there can be legal justification for everything, but today opposition voters do not trust you, and with this one amendment, with the assistance of our opposition representatives, we could create this trust. And are you coming to see that this will stand the test of constitutionality, so that the government will recreate the decrees? With regard to the disabled pensioners, as to their compensation, why don't you be disturbed by the violation of the Constitution, tell me. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the opposition benches.]] It doesn't bother you, does it, when the Constitutional Court said that people with disability should be compensated, but they don't deal with it, and now they're concerned. We also know that these government decrees will be made, and there will be no school on the weekends. Fellow Members! It is your turn, and you have the opportunity to establish a consensus in Parliament. Don't threaten us, don't tell us how we change our minds or how we don't. We will change our minds if this amendment is accepted, and on Monday or Tuesday next week, the Parliament can unanimously vote in favour of this empowered law, and we can vote unanimously. You think about it. You've got a few more days to come up with a consensus. And speaking of the bravest people, well, you would have been bravest if you'd told your leader here that you were Prime Minister or Viktor, or as you call it, [[Dr. Pál Völner: You have that!]] Change your mind. Change your mind, put in this 90-30, this 120-day deadline, put it in, and we'll have a consensus. Well, then they would have been brave. This way, they're just giving you a hard time, and it's your responsibility. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-24-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, . Those who give up their fundamental freedom for temporary security do not deserve freedom or security. , said Benjamin Franklin. That's exactly what the government's mandate bill is about. He asks the country to give up our remaining little freedom for the very safety of the government. The essence of the proposal, whatever they say about it, will later prove that Parliament gives the government unlimited power for an unlimited period of time. The government argues that this is constitutional and necessary for dealing with an emergency, but none of this is true. The government does not need this law in this form for an epidemiological defense, and it is not a constitutional solution of its choice. The government is asking for a non-constitutional mandate instead of taking the necessary measures, not for the purpose of disease control. Let it be clear that we support all measures that really serve to control the epidemic, but that the government will deprive it of its right to control Parliament and that Viktor Orbán has full power until the end of time, we will not support it in any way. Máté Kocsis is simply not telling the truth. I originally wrote a different word here, but even if I didn't write his person, I respect the dignity of this House so much that I don't go down to his level. So he's not telling the truth. I was present in the seven-party negotiations. At the first trial, our first question was that it was a mistake, but a saying that Minister Gulyás said at his press conference announcing an emergency that this was indefinitely. The answer was that, of course, Parliament's control will override this after 15 days. Nor is it true that when the bill came out, the opposition did not make any objections. We sat at that hearing, all opposition parties said that they could only accept this bill on time, most opposition parties said that they were only effective without the control of the Constitutional Court. He is willing to accept this draft, and many of us have also said that it is the Btk. the amendment made here is unacceptable. That's the first one. That's what we started with. So I have to say that this statement that the opposition to this bill at any time in this form, in any way it has given or promised its support, is a blatant lie. But he is not telling the truth either Máté Kocsis and Gergely Gulyás and the government parrot choir, when he says that if the opposition did not vote for this, or because yesterday the opposition did not vote for the fourth, it would have been the only way that the government decrees already announced would remain in force, and now we have to let the children back into school, we have to open the borders, what else? "You have to pay the payments," says Congressman Nacsa, "you have to let people out of quarantine, and so on. Be clear, that's not true. Firstly, the government would have had the opportunity to submit a bill requesting the approval of the regulations in accordance with the Constitution. He didn't do that, he's asking for more and more. Secondly, there would have been a way for the government or there is a way for the government to publish the decisive part of these measures on the basis of the Health Act and other legislation. 56 of this law. § 2b gives the government a broad mandate in the event of an epidemiological defence. Thirdly, and here, Mr Máté Kocsis immediately contradicted his own words, indeed, the government also has a way to keep these measures in force once the government regulations have been issued again. Well, not in the way he says it will be possible to do it forever, because that would be an abuse of law, but for a few days, until a proper bill is put here, that would also be a good solution. And Congressman Nacsa said strange things, too. Let's not fool each other. If anyone got orders from abroad, it's not us, my dear friends, that Fidesz and the KDNP, sorry not to miss it. Mr Habony called from London saying that there is no need to agree with the opposition, that there should be no compromise, that there should be impossible conditions, because it will look good on the billboards in 2022. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right! It's mean!]] That's your level, that's how they think about the country. Only power matters to Fidesz, not the health of the country, not the health of the people. What's up? Dear House, There is no question that, indeed, today there is a special situation in Hungary and in the whole world, the coronal virus epidemic is facing unprecedented challenges for Hungary and Hungarian citizens, transforming all of our lives and putting us all at risk. Let the Prime Minister know that people like him and indeed young people, as the Chief Officer said today, the Prime Minister thinks otherwise, and I do not want him to endanger his health, because he believes that the younger ones are not dangerous to the Crown Virus. In such an exceptional situation, it is indeed necessary for the current government to take extraordinary measures, even those outside the ordinary legal order. There may be a need for regulation, and I will not say it again, such as closing schools, limiting the opening of shops, closing borders, and so on. The Democratic Coalition not only supports these measures, we urged more, we also suggested. If, in recent times, and you have said so, we agree that if we have criticised the government over the past period, it has indeed been because a number of measures have been introduced too slowly and too weakly. Therefore, if the government were to ask for confirmation that we approve the regulations that have been adopted so far, it would receive it from us, it would also be possible to reach a national agreement on this basis from the other opposition parties. However, there is a strict condition in the exceptional legal order. In all the rule of law, almost all of them, and so in Hungary, constitutional rules limit what the government can do in such an extraordinary situation. [[15.30]] Today, there is an extraordinary situation in the 16 Member States of the European Union, all of which are time-bound, even in the case of the Great Britain mentioned by Fidesz. There your friend, the Prime Minister who led the United Kingdom into the Brexit disaster, tried a time-limited legal order, but the opposition and its own pro-government representatives told him that this was not a democracy. In addition, the last ten years have proven that... you say it's okay, because the government will eliminate it if you think it's okay. Well, the last ten years have certainly proved one thing: the Orbán government never voluntarily renounces once acquired power. This is what we see, and I just have to give you an example: the exceptional situation caused by immigration, it is being extended for a given reason or even without a reason, I don't know how many years. What, then, about constitutionalism? They know that we are not big believers in the current Fundamental Law, the way it is adopted, its wording and many other details, but these are the rules in force today, which are binding and, in particular, would be expected of Fidesz and KDNP, which celebrated the Fundamental Law as a masterpiece carved into marble in order to comply with its rules. However, the Fundamental Law is very clear about the legislative and parliamentary control of the government's actions in an exceptional situation. That's 53. 'Cause he says I'm sorry, it's not a paragraph, it's a nasty article, 'cause it's more elegant. [[Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] In this basic rule, he says that if he submits such a thing, the government can do anything, or almost everything necessary to protect against the epidemic, but this has two limitations: one of the limits is to ask Parliament for authorisation within 15 days, and the other limit is that, for the sake of the weaker ones in a separate fundamental law, it is called a disaster protection law, in which areas the government can form a decree. You are now asking for an exemption from these two exceptions, because not only are you giving us the authority to approve the regulations that have been adopted so far, but also to approve everything that comes to your mind from here on in advance. This is clearly contrary to the spirit of the constitutional provision. It is quite clear that when this was created, the intention was always to have ex post approval of the government regulation, you want to avoid knowing how long, and this is the other issue we are talking about, since they do not contribute to at least this state, as long as you are free to issue government regulations without parliamentary control, have some kind of limitation. It is easy to conclude the intention from the preamble to the bill. 'Cause what's that about? Well, we're about to take a break from Parliament. You wish to govern without a parliament. This preamble is incredibly honest, indeed, it is not customary for you, since it tells you what the intention is: that Parliament should not be called together, that Parliament should not have to meet. And you can say, Minister Gergely Gulyás: well, well, well, you can't override the Fundamental Law, you can't override the Fundamental Law in such a situation. That is true, but actually, the Speaker or the operational tribe, or the government, or the brightest, full-fledged Prime Minister himself, decides that it is not justified from an epidemiological point of view that the Parliament should meet and govern itself in an excellent manner. Let us add that this also contradicts the logic of the Fundamental Law. Article 48 [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's it! That's the thing.]] Article 48 contains clear rules and guarantee rules [[István Hollik: That's what we're talking about!]] that, in the case of a much more serious emergency and emergency situation, the functioning of Parliament cannot be restricted. So while you are here preparing for no Parliament, the Parliament should also meet in a situation of war, if any. What you are planning is clearly a non-constitutional coup simply by force, the elimination of Parliament from government control. And don't tell me that there may be a situation where most of the Members are sick, because, of course, there may be such a situation if they do their job better, there would be less chance, in this situation where we are today, that there really is such a danger, but if the European Parliament is able to meet with seven hundred Members in distance work, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Electronically!]] What's the holdup? ! Most European parliaments have already moved to some kind of meeting that would otherwise allow this to happen. What is the reason why, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian Parliament is also able to make its decisions at a distance by means of a remote vote? I must say that it is not the ability and not the legal opportunity that is lacking, but the intention. There would be no obstacle to the amendment of the parliamentary law on this matter, obviously we would also support this, if that were to be the case. Both pro-government politicians and our democrat friends are suggesting what we're worried about, because Parliament is doing with two thirds of what it wants here in this House. This is true in many cases, but there is one thing they cannot avoid here: what is happening now, the open debate and the open criticism, the sincere expression in their eyes of what they are doing, and every authoritarian, every dictatorship hates. That is why they have tried to limit us to house rules, and that is why they are now trying to put Parliament aside in the control of the government. [[István Hollik and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] Let it be clear, then, that we can only adopt and support a bill with a clear time limit. We would consider it appropriate that, if this were the 15-day deadline under the Fundamental Law, the government would come here every 15 days and ask for the extension of the regulations issued during this period, not all of them, but the new ones, in case they had any stray ideas. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And I'll tell you something about your stray ideas, but we're willing to compromise on this matter, if necessary. At the same time, I would like to make it very clear before it is misinterpreted that we are always ready to support what is really necessary in this Parliament. Let's talk a little bit about what kind of circle they're asking for. Doesn't the Fundamental Law say that the circle defined by the fundamental laws is described as the disaster protection law? You are saying that this crisis, this crisis, is different, greater than what the disaster protection law has been designed for. [[Dr. János Harghitai: That's right!]] All right, that's acceptable. But you have no idea what it means? We need to look at international examples of what measures there are. It could be quite clear what additional measures might be needed or, if necessary, request parliamentary authorisation. The fact that you are taking the crisis seriously is an excellent example of the current Parliament meeting. What was important to you at this meeting? It was important to have a single-party nomination for a Fidesz party soldier. It was important to take away most of the theatres in the capital. It will be important to continue to give a raise to the heads of public organisations. Now, that's what you guys had in mind at the time of the coronal virus. I know, they'll tell you, it's not based on this law. No, he's just showing you what you can do to protect yourself from the coronal virus and to deal with the crisis. Moreover, you always say that the Constitutional Court will judge the necessity and proportionality. When? Someday, because otherwise there is no time limit for the Constitutional Court. And, of course, Parliament will not be able to gather, but the 40 opposition representatives will gather and sign, that is not a problem. That is why we also say that another important constitutional condition is to say, let us make it possible for the Constitutional Court, if they love the Constitutional Court so much, to decide in an emergency procedure. I am saying that it is not by accident, because we remember that after 2010, when it was a genuine Constitutional Court, the main aspect of you was how to limit the Constitutional Court. But now all power to the Constitutional Court! It's okay, but at least take it seriously. Say that in three or five days, the Constitutional Court will have to deal with such a constitutional complaint. For them, they allow you to meet online. I would like to talk very briefly about a few more issues. Btk.: My fellow Members have said why the form of tightening up that you are proposing is not acceptable. If they wanted to, they could act against those who commit such a crime on the basis of the current facts of the rumor. But that's not what you're trying to tell me. It may not be used, it will be a hard crime to prove, it's true, but to intimidate it will be perfect. Sending the police and the party state prosecutor's office to the press is gonna be great, and that's gonna be a great rule. [[15.40]] But if you want to tighten up Btk., I will make a proposal, and we have also submitted it in writing: tighten up the fact that if a public organisation holds back vital information, it would be worth punishing, I would also suggest who should be prosecuted in this case. And while you have mentioned the municipalities and the mayor, let me show you with great love that the situation where the mayor alone is forced to issue decrees was created by you, and you created it by refusing to issue a meaningful resolution if I remember correctly, two weeks ago, on the first day of the emergency, we indicated that this was going to be a problem, in which it briefs the municipalities on how they should operate in such a situation. The rules of the Disaster Protection Act are not in such a situation I said before, but there would have been no reason for this law to correct what is the matter of the general assembly or the body of representatives in this case and what is the mayor's. Of course, your mayors have no inhibitions, since they appoint a deputy mayor, adopt a budget, or are absolving office workers. But we agree that this will be corrected in this proposal, and we very much agree with that. But where is your suggestion? We've got it, we've put it in, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, To sum up, I would therefore like to say that the government has plenty to do to deal with the epidemic, to deal with social impacts, to test it, to prepare health care. There are a lot of shortcomings, a lot of delays, a lot of delays. Do these things, and we will support them. We will not support you being given full power, because let us be clear, based on the experience of the last ten years, you do not enjoy the trust of the opposition or a significant part of the country. Máté Kocsis is right, it would be easier to defend, it would be easier for the country if the parliamentary parties could agree. We have made proposals for this at the seven-party hearing, and we are now making proposals in the parliamentary debate. These have been submitted. There's still three days or two before the Legislative Committee meets, and then there's five more days before the vote. Use it. Accept our proposals or, if this is not acceptable, make better proposals to solve the problems that we have raised. But don't ask for power for unlimited time, don't ask for uncontrolled full power, and don't ask them to shut up about the press, because we're not going to be partners. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The basic issue is that it is necessary to be empowered without time and content limits to effectively defend itself. I don't think that's necessary. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that Máté Kocsis is right, that you, in the possession of the two-thirds majority, have done anything. I'm gonna add that they did. Right now, your fear arises from the fact that God doesn't give it to you, but there may be more Members from your benches who will be sick, and this thin two-thirds majority will be lost. That's what this bill is about in front of us. The opposition has supported and continues to support the extension of the emergency situation and supports the further extension of the measures taken so far. As my fellow socialist lead speaker said, there is an amendment tabled, which I think is cutting through the Gordian knot very quickly. The question is that you have a very small intention of consensus. That's the question. I cannot answer that now, this question remains open, because, as we have just said, we still have the committee hearing and the vote, so I think there is still time for you, let us say, to come to your senses and to make a gesture. Yes, in the possession of two-thirds, this is a gesture. And I think that there is no more trust-building thing than strong gestures of this type. But there is a big question in the debate that has been raised so far that the current situation is damaging to the management of the epidemic. Let me tell you what I think is bad for dealing with this epidemic. For example, the reduced information we experience at the daily press conferences of the operational tribe is harmful. It's bad. It hurts public confidence, it hurts society, it keeps society in suspense, and this uncertainty creates fear. I am convinced that we cannot afford this. You know the quote that a Democrat is not afraid. But a Democrat doesn't want to keep society in fear, and he doesn't want to exercise power through it! I think that we need fair, comprehensive, complete information, and it is totally unacceptable for the operational tribe to make sarcastic remarks to journalists at press conferences, of course only to those who do not like you. That's bad for defense. But it's also bad for defense not to set an example. I must also bring up the case of István S. Nagy. The case of István S. Nagy points out two things perfectly. On the one hand, he points out that personal responsibility in your benches, let us say, shows certain shortcomings. S. Nagy István... [[István Hollik: László B. Nagy!]] Sorry, László B. Big, right, sorry... [[Noise, interruptions.]] So I think the fact that he's risky, possible, potentially infected here yesterday and today is irresponsible. You can convince me otherwise, but it will be very difficult. At the same time, this also points to the fact that the contact investigation and the measures that can be attached, so the protocol that health institutions do today, according to your instructions, is meaningless. They're useless, because if someone's proven to be infected with the virus, the Covid virus, it should be in an official quarantine. It should not be voluntary home quarantine, but it should be said by the authorities that you have a personal relationship with an infected man, sir, so you will be placed under official quarantine. That didn't happen. The question is why it didn't happen. Yeah, right, because there's been two-thirds vote in the last few days, and they didn't dare let a man fall out of the voting machine. Now, that weakens the effectiveness of defense. But the effectiveness of protection is significantly weakened by the lack of quality and quantity of tools. Yesterday's Prime Minister's report was very nice to use his words when he told me that there were a million and a half surgical masks in stock. He didn't add it, because he couldn't have known that the operational tribe might have me on Thursday, but I remember Thursday he informed me that he would be in our country in a day or two and that 250 million surgical masks would be distributed. I even asked him if by purchasing these masks the government would support the defence of the municipalities, or that it would be necessary to pay for it. He couldn't say that, and we couldn't even estimate the costs that would arise. [[15.50]] But when the Hungarian government wants to solve the defense with non-existent surgical masks because 250 million will arrive in 2-3 days, a member of the operational tribe said on Thursday, but today is Tuesday, if I remember correctly, and yesterday we were informed about 1.5 million masks, so if they want to solve the defense with surgical masks, we can find ourselves on the Italian road very quickly. The surgical masks or these paper masks were practically told by dozens of professionals that they didn't protect themselves against infection. They just don't protect me. If I'm infected and wearing it, it reduces the risk that my opponent gets it, but otherwise, the protection value of this can be questioned by professionals as well. But clearly, I think that if I'm healthy, then the surgical mask doesn't protect me in any way. It's a risk of defense. Just as there is a risk that the Prime Minister mentioned 129 thousand qualified masks, with 24 643 eligible medical personnel and 105,000 health professionals. It's a couple hundred rounds for 130,000 people, which means that this 129 thousand certified masks are enough for a day's supply. But I understand that you're going to have to share, so that, by definition, intensive care workers get it in the first round. But if you look at the number of general doctors, only those under 65, if you look at the number of medical workers working in intensive care, from doctor to nurse, and look at the number of paramedics for example, then it turns out that this 129 thousand masks, which is usually used twice a day, this recommendation, but if you wear one a day, it's acceptable, they can't be washed, they can't be cleaned, so they can't be used the next day, I think it's extremely small. And we didn't say a word about the protection measures related to municipal tasks that arise, for example, in relation to the care of the elderly. I think that the municipalities have rightly been given the task of providing for the elderly in their settlement. With all due respect, Mr House, it is clear that in larger settlements this work can only be done by volunteers in this legislative environment. But would the volunteer come to help with the defense if the municipality couldn't provide him with decent, genuine protection equipment? You will not come, ladies and gentlemen. If I start from the example of downtown districts, it can be said that this task requires volunteers between 200 and 300 people per district. If we multiply this by 23 districts or look at larger cities in the country, it will soon become clear that their supply of equipment is not guaranteed under such conditions. And we didn't talk about employees who once again have a duty to care for people in official quarantine. Why don't we talk about that? These are municipal duties. And we didn't talk about civil servants who are still on the front lines today, postmen, drivers, we didn't talk about patient carriers. So it's a beautiful list, it sounds really good to have 129 thousand pieces. Who can picture 130,000 masks in front of you? [[This is Lőrinc Nacsa and László Böröcz.]] That sounds great. Great, two of my fellow Members came forward so you could see it in front of you. Then you will also see, my fellow Members, how incredibly fast this will run out. I think that, since these equipment is not available in the municipalities, in the front line of the defence level, this will reduce and harm the management of the epidemic. What would help is testing. Of course, two weeks ago, like parrots, we chant to test, shop, shop and test. We are all familiar with the Italian city of Vo, where in a settlement of 3000 people, only testing has been able to reduce the number of patients to zero. Because what the Hungarian government does not count on is a multitude of patients who show no symptoms. He's showing no symptoms, but he's infected. If there is no symptom, then there is no need to defend against it, the Hungarian government says. It's not like that. If we do not begin to prevent the spread by radically increasing testing, then we will end up like Italy. I think that already, at this early stage, the statistical figures show that there is a mortality rate above the European average. Instead of taking effective action and not requiring this law, they will introduce a law that a man with a democratic attitude cannot accept. You can't accept me, and not because I assume that the government wants to abuse it, but because the guarantees are not in it, and because if it doesn't have anything to hide, it has an ulterior motive for the government, it is possible to accept at least one of the multitude of amendments. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Here we have said 90 days, 120 days, we have already said... I do not know what proposals have been made only in relation to the speech of the lead speaker. I think that's the basic question. This is the basic question of why they want this to be adopted out loud instead of taking effective action. Yeah, I know the answer. The Prime Minister replied that a qualified mask is a missing item, and it is simply a missing item. I remember when Prime Minister spoke very proudly about how the Chinese Government is an incredible strategic partner for Hungary, and that Chinese-Hungarian friendship, this unbreakable, indeed, will live and live for a long time. But I ask you with respect, if the Prime Minister hasn't lied, and we have such a good relationship with the Chinese government, and I don't suppose the Prime Minister has lied, then how come the Government of Hungary hasn't sat down to negotiate with the Chinese government, so that we can buy a quantity of one and a half million dollars a day that will otherwise satisfy the needs of defence? I think that these are the basic issues, and if the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP have an intention, a will to reach an agreement and a national unity, then they have every opportunity to do so. Pestively speaking, the ball is bouncing in your court. I very much hope that you will consider what I and my fellow Members have said and an agreement will be reached. Thank you very much for the floor. [[16.00]] Sorry, let me add one more half thought. Madam Secretary! I would like to ask with due respect that, if there is a way, you do not say your answer in the closing words, in case we can respond to it. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-24-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I would like to point out that the representative of the government will be able to speak in the lead speaker's round only in duly justified cases. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now coming from the Group of Dialogue, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-24-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will try not to repeat it and add new arguments to the debate. This bill is really about trust, about trusting the current government, about how the government will be able to exercise restraint. Here, during the opposition speeches, I thought about the last ten years, and I thought about when there was a situation when Fidesz exercised restraint. I tried to give you some examples, but I couldn't find much. From the appointment of constitutional judges to the appointment of the President of the State Audit Office, through the appointment of the President of the Republic, through the adoption of the electoral law, I could not find a single case where they were willing to exercise restraint. There were some cases where they changed because of their own political interests, or the pressure on the outside of the People's Party. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] But there was never any restraint. Clearly, it is difficult for the opposition to trust the government, to trust that you exercise restraint, but I would ask you to surprise us in the next period, to exercise restraint a few times, and then I think our attitude on this issue will change. We have two big problems with the bill. The first is the absence of time limits, of course, and the second is the modification of the news media, or even a smaller one, and then I will talk about it at the end. But to say the good things, the part of the bill that seeks to include the obstruction of the epidemiological measure as a stand-alone criminal act in the criminal code is very appropriate for the community to have an interest in the current situation and for everyone to comply with the rules on quarantine. We fully agree with this tightening up and enforcement. But then the two big problems are in detail. Time limit: you say you don't abuse, trust you. But make no mistake, on this basis, Viktor Orbán decides when the emergency is over. [[Interviews from the benches of the governing parties: The Parliament... the President bells.]] No, the government decides when the emergency is over. Don't make a mistake. My question is, what about the crisis caused by immigration, because who knows how many times it will be extended? What's to stop you from doing this with the plague? After all, this virus may last for years, and they will have the opportunity to refer to it every single time to extend it. Mr Hollik: obviously we are not thinking of measures that affect citizens badly, but, let us say, public procurement. We think of such measures when we fear that the government will not exercise restraint and abuse it. What about Szekszárd, Komlón and Nagykanizsa? In each of the three settlements, since the state of emergency was declared, the Fidesz city leaders have gone beyond their powers by decree. They accept budgets, eliminate local media. That certainly doesn't increase confidence. There is no need to bring the capital and Gergely Christmas here, since he did not abuse the authority he had in connection with only one measure. In addition, I am sure that if a measure has to be taken that seriously affects the capital city, it will convene the Metropolitan Assembly against you who do not want to convene Parliament. So that was a very bad example. You say that Parliament will not be able to meet. Why wouldn't he? Appropriate protective equipment can be distributed here, masks, gloves. By providing these, we can ensure that at least we do not infect each other. But there's also the electronic vote, some of them have said it. They are also able to vote electronically in the European Parliament, and they have also resolved this in the Constitutional Court. But then let me bring you a Fidesz congressman and his statement on this. I've been told, unfortunately, the joke was shot in front of me, but I've made several statements. It is mandatory for me to appear in Parliament, and I cannot allow myself to be excluded from the limited parliamentary function at this time. I think that we have so much responsibility for society that we do not pull ourselves out, especially before such an important decision. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The following quote is: "My representative's work is not about me, but about the voters and the fate of the country. I have come up so that we can adopt this legislation urgently in the interests of the country.... I can tell you that in every case like this, as long as I live or walk, I will continue to come up in the future, because it is in the interests of this country and my moral duty. " They also asked if Fidesz had a problem with these statements. He said, "I don't think... they knew what was going on with me, if they had any reservations, obviously they were telling me to stay home. This means that there are certain cases where you can imagine that Members who might be sick or put others at risk of passing this epidemic will come in and vote. So, this is not the kind of thing that the Parliament can meet up with, which seems to be a false reason. It can be solved, as I suggested earlier. Therefore, I would like to ask you to consider, in particular from this situation, the possibility of creating an electronic vote for the future as well. We will support this. With regard to the spread of rumors, the law states that freedom of speech should not extend to claims and reputations of false facts in the context of an exhaustive defence throughout the country. My question is, if we're saying there's not enough masks, there's not enough protective equipment in hospitals, whether it's rumors. I don't know, Madam Secretary or Secretary of State can answer that. But I'll give you better examples than that. What do these statements count for in the current situation? Hungarian Nemzet: Members of Parliament are preparing to commit a crime against the Hungarian people, who will vote in advance to vote 'no' to prolong the national emergency caused by the deadly virus. Or Fidesz's Facebook post: even in such an exceptional emergency, the opposition cannot be expected to protect the safety of Hungarian people. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] What does that matter? 888.hu: the opposition sided with the virus. András Bencsik, one of your tellers, may the opposition be ashamed to place thousands of lives under their sick, evil thoughts. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, that's it!]] Another Fidesz-near portal: we present the Hungarian killers by name, which voted against the emergency. Are these rumors, my fellow Members of the Fidesz? Are they suitable for disturbing the peace of mind? Well, think about it. There is a minor problem with the proposal regarding the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court could examine the constitutionality of the regulation's governance, and it is right that the faction leaders are able to propose this on their own, but the deadline has not been set here either. We therefore propose that the Constitutional Court discuss these contested measures with a three-day deadline. It is stated that the operation of the Constitutional Court is of particular importance during a special legal order. The thing is, let's be honest, we don't trust the Constitutional Court at all. It is enough to look at today's appointment, what kind of consultation, what professional background the person who entered the Constitutional Court and who is in the Constitutional Court: ex-fidesz representatives, ex-fidesz ministers. But it's good to change this, then this item is acceptable to us. To sum up, we cannot support this overall, in this form. We also consider 90 days to be necessary. In this way, I think it should be taken out in this form; it is not clear enough, it is not taxative enough. This deadline for the Constitutional Court should also be changed, so we could support this proposal. By the way, any protection measures that will help us to contain this virus have been supported in the past, and we will continue to support it, both now and in the future. Please consider our proposals, and then we will be able to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is your chance! A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-24-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible for me to give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó on behalf of the government. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[16.10]]
u2020-03-24-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a pandemic; I would like to underline the first part of the complex word: the world. So we are not facing a Hungarian, not a European, but a global challenge. At the same time, every country and every nation defends themselves against this global challenge, each country and every nation must face the challenge themselves, and therefore national responses must be given, in Hungarian: national measures must be taken. There have been various coordination attempts at international level, mainly on the part of the European Union, but they have either not started or have not entered the relevant stage or have become obsolete, have become timeless or have worked with completely limited efficiency. They remain, therefore, honourable Members, the national responses, and effective national responses require legislation to enable measures to be taken to protect the health and safety of the citizens of that country. All nations must therefore protect themselves, protect the lives and health of people, protect the functioning of the health system, protect the functioning of the economy and ensure the continuous supply of people. Yesterday, the European Union's foreign ministers first came together in our shared history, not in person, but in the context of a video conference, well, we managed just as expected, technically and in terms of results, but the point is that it has become clear that we are facing completely common challenges, more precisely: we are facing the same type of challenges. For this reason, border protection measures have been proven to be entirely legitimate, and every European country has a legitimate limitation of traffic on its border, with one exception, namely the traffic of goods. If the traffic of goods is restricted, then we are in fact endangering the safety of citizens, the continued supply of people, and therefore transit and seamless and accessible transport of goods must be maintained. If we are unable to do so, we are also putting the functioning of the economies at great risk, given that today's modern industrial production is no longer based on storage but on the continuous movement of assets and components. In the case of Hungary, if we look only at trade flows with neighbouring countries, it amounts to EUR 43 billion in one year, which is HUF 15 000 billion, so it is clear from this that limited trade in goods can cause damage in each European country. Ladies and gentlemen, The acquisition of the necessary tools for defence and security of supply, if I understand correctly, has also been mentioned here in the lead speakerial round, our fellow Member Csárdi has brought up our relations with China and, in comparison, the acquisition of the necessary means for defence. Yesterday, at the Foreign Ministers' meeting, it was also clear that everyone in China is lining up. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So the Germans, the French, the Spanish, the Italians, all European countries are in line in China. What does all this mean? That when our relationship with China is being debated, when Western Europeans talk about the need to criticise China, when they talk about the fact that the Central European countries are breaking up the unity of the European Union, on the one hand, they are not telling the truth, because the 11 Central and Eastern European countries are carrying out 9,9 percent of the trade between the European Union and China, and the western European countries are doing 90,9 percent of the trade between the European Union and China, that is the difference. Now, every country in Western Europe from China is trying to obtain the means of defence: ventilators, masks and protective clothing; and yes, ladies and gentlemen, we too. This morning, a large cargo plane landed in Ferihegy, which brought many ten tons of protective equipment to Hungary. I respectfully inform you that, in recent days, we have managed to conclude a number of contracts thanks to our continued mutual correctness and respect-based political relations, which will result in a large amount of defence-related instruments arriving in Hungary in the coming weeks. Only nine aircraft will take off from Budapest this week to go to China and bring the protection equipment to Hungary, and I would like to say once again that all Western European countries are in line in China. Ladies and gentlemen, So much for the need and justification of the Eastern opening. However, I would also like to say a few sentences about fake news production that undermines the success of defence. We are talking about a non-Hungarian phenomenon, there are, unfortunately, people and organisations who, at the risk of human health and life, spread lies for political or other types of profit. And I also refer mainly to the lies of the liberal international mainstream political and media elite, which, with lies, seek to reduce the effectiveness of the fight against the pandemic. Unfortunately, this is an existing phenomenon, an existing concept. I'm asking you to step up our efforts together. After all, we obviously see and hear the laments that this international liberal mainstream media and political elite has begun to spread around the world in recent days: dictatorship building, threats of endless authorisation, final days of freedoms. In addition to the fact that, of course, these are the same political attacks as we have had to experience in recent months and years, these attacks are exactly the same as those on Article 7, which started against us because of our migration policy, which are based again on double standards and hypocrisy. If we look behind these attacks, we can also see that they have no factual justification whatsoever. There is nothing in the international, but even in a narrower European comparison, that the Minister has initiated with this bill here in Parliament. In Romania, for example, there has been an emergency situation since 16 March, when the government has been authorised to limit certain rights progressively and in proportion, the Romanian Parliament approved this without meeting through a telephone app. In the emergency situation, in addition to free movement, the right to private housing, economic freedom and strike can also be limited, and Romania has already formally requested the suspension of the European Convention on Human Rights. The same has been done by Latvia, Estonia and Moldova. In Finland, too, the government decided to initiate the so-called emergency law on 17 March, and the parliament had to approve it afterwards. Possible governmental rights include, for example, restrictions on employers' right to terminate, and, in the interest of security of supply, can order mandatory work for all persons aged 18 to 68 who are permanently resident in Finland, i.e. foreign nationals. In the case of Spain, an emergency has been declared by the government, the autonomous provinces of Spain are under the control of the central government, the economic activity of any industry, factory or workshop may be temporarily intervened by the government, or may be suspended temporarily, and the use of all goods by the authorities is also possible, and compulsory treatment of citizens is required. In Estonia, there has been a state of emergency since 12 March, with certain exceptions to the prohibition of entry of foreigners, the law provides for work obligations, the acquisition and use of private property, the restriction of movement and the use of administrative coercive instruments. There has been an emergency in the Czech Republic since March 12, and the rules are quite similar to those applied in Hungary. [[16.20]] There is an exceptional situation in Slovakia, with easier decision-making, simplified rules, simplified procurement procedures or non-procurement, health emergency, workers cannot refuse to work, they cannot strike. So much for how well those attacks by the international liberal political and media elite are founded on us and to what extent they are based on double standards. These are baseless, misleading, misleading attacks. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to emphasise once again: the crisis and the epidemic are global, the challenges are global, but we have to answer this at national level, and this bill, which lies before you, provides the right and appropriate framework for Hungary to effectively defend itself on a national basis, and you can see that there is nothing out of the ordinary, is fully in line with international law and international customs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-96	Thank you very much, Minister. It is now possible for independent representatives to speak for the first time. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-24-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Life protection, job protection and home protection. This is the job of the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government in these difficult times. And when it comes to life protection, I have to start by asking the Hungarian government with respect, and I respectfully ask everyone who acts on their own initiative not to spread false news. On the official side of the National People's Health Centre, practically the people who preach against masking are responsible. That's completely irresponsible. Since the Minister of Foreign Affairs has just quoted Slovakia, I would like to say that there is now only a mask on the street, precisely because the incubation period of this insidious virus, according to scientists, can be up to two weeks, and the victims of the virus can be infected within these two weeks. The only way we can protect each other is if we're wearing masks when we meet each other within two meters of each other. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, You're still talking two meters closer to your partner. [[Péter Szijjártó consults Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál. Peter Szijjártó: Come on!]] They don't have masks on either one of them. I'm asking you to feel the responsibility you have to feel in these difficult times. I understand that you have unfortunately not been able to bring enough masks to the territory of Hungary and provide them to Hungarian citizens. This is a very serious problem. Yesterday Prime Minister said there will be a mask from tomorrow, or today. I'm glad you guys managed to do that. Thank you very much. Please also consider, Minister and Honourable Minister and Honourable Government MEPs, that paramedics should, for example, be given a salary increase. That's what they asked the Prime Minister to do. Give it to them! Make sure there's protective clothing wherever you need it. Care should be taken care of parents who teach their children at home, taking care of them at home in these distressful times. Take an example from the Austrians, where a third of the wages were taken over by the state, and pay them in exchange for keeping these parents out of the street. Listen to what we have been saying for weeks: the family allowance could be used to transfer double to Hungarian families. The Hungarian budget, as far as I can see, can bear this edition, and this would be very necessary, because if they are at the cash register in different shops, they can see exactly what difficulties the current shopping causes for families, when everyone is eating at home and the children have to take care of everything at home. And there is the protection of the home, who live in the apartments, and the Hungarian government also has to deal with them. If we were to talk about lex Covid in the Hungarian Parliament, I think that we should talk about these issues and these issues all the time. I am sure that if you were to take these measures, which I have just mentioned, the entire opposition would support you in a totally unanimous manner. Instead, what is happening in the Hungarian Parliament? An extremely bad-tasting debate that doesn't make any sense at all. Because we all know exactly what this is about. Once again, the government can order an emergency, and the government will tell us when this is over. In the regulations, which are born during an emergency, there can be cooperation, but I would also like to say to you that every 15 days this Parliament could cooperate with each other without any problems, if we had, say, an electronic procedure for this. For the existing ParLex system, please create a module, vote from home, and every 15 days we are happy to vote on the measures in which there is agreement. I would also like to stress that the delegation law, as it is on the agenda, has made it very clear, to put it mildly, what your intentions are. I would like to ask you that I understand that the basic conditions of civilised life have been undermined in Hungary over the last ten years, that education and health do not work, a lot of things do not work as they should, but in these times of distress really do not consider the opposition to be the great enemy. This is not necessary, this is not what the Hungarian people expect of you. Now we don't have to fantasize their people, we don't have to fantasize their voters, everyone wants peace and security in this country. I told you, what I see is job protection, home protection in health and life protection, which is what can create a national consensus. Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Minister, Honourable Members, Bring me these questions. We don't need to argue about four fifths, two thirds. I don't want them. Not everyone in this room should be a constitutional lawyer, I don't think there are any of them here right now, but the point is, mind the people, not us. We don't want to deal with you either. The different letters that come in to us are not about them wanting to see fighting representatives. One thing people want is security. Give it to them! Give them health care, home protection. Give them everything they need to keep their jobs safe. I ask you, with all due respect, and I would also ask you to use the two-thirds mandate that you have now, not your political capital, to jump on the opposition, but to create security for the Hungarian people. That's their job. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-03-24-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Székely. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. [[It's happening.]] Now, start the two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-24-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I've been thinking a lot about commenting on the debate, but what's happened in the last few days and days, I think you deserve a word. You are also using the coronal virus epidemic to cement their political power even more in Hungary, and instead of solving the crisis, you are creating a political crisis in a very clear way by wanting to pass a law that the opposition is not very capable of adopting, because we do not intend to give you a time-limited mandate to govern with regulations, and I think we do not expect that to happen. There have been many proposals for solutions from the opposition, which you can agree to, but you do not need a solution, but you need to make the Hungarian opposition look almost unspeakable. But I'm going to tell you that today we're being hanged by your supporters on Facebook and other places. It has happened in Hungarian history that a party of governments has done this to opponents who do not like it, unfortunately it ended very badly. I think it must be said that they are very careful about this, because this is a very dangerous road. However, I would like to say two more things quickly in my last half minute, why is it a problem that there is no control over you. You are doing very well, you are doing a great deal to keep the banks from going bankrupt, but many of my colleagues here have said that they are no longer doing what they do to ensure the wages of people who will not receive hundreds of thousands of salaries. It's very good that you don't have to pay a loan, but you should buy bread with something. And the other, I'm glad the mouth masks have arrived today. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But the children of South-Pest Hospital staff have to go to a kindergarten where there are no cleaners today. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-24-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Antal Csárdi is next. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2020-03-24-101	Thank you very much. I just want to say a brief reaction to Minister Szijjártó's comment, quickly, while you're here, really just a short one, sorry. Because if I understand correctly, the list of decisions that Minister has made has tried to collect the decisions made in international comparison. I would like to thank you, because the examples you have given have just confirmed that in international examples the special legal order has not been introduced without a time limit, and with due respect for the special legal order, the opposition has no problem. The opposition has a problem with time limitlessness, so may Other to Politics, and the content limits have not been expressed in a way. So I think that the examples given by the Minister were examples of the fact that, in other words, the time and content limits were created in an international comparison. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc is next. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would also like to make it clear to Mr Arató, and to all those who visit here, that there is no guarantee and that there is no government until the end of time. It is precisely included in this bill at your request in its necessity and proportionality, and it is also included that only in this context can the government adopt regulations on which the law is based, only in the context of the human epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't tell me, as paranoid Péter Jakab, Deputy of Ferenc Gyurcsány, did at his press conference that Viktor Orbán is preparing for some kind of lifelong government! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We liked to run for office. We also win with a relatively nice number. We liked to run for election, so obviously we're going to do the next one, and we're going to size ourselves up, and don't spread... this rumors that you're saying things like that. And when Bernadett Wind calls us to account for the spread of hatred, hatred, and false publicity, and he dares to say that the basic conditions of civilized life have been undermined for the last ten years, I resent it and reject it. You will give us the help we need for this law. They didn't give it to me yesterday, they can fix it next time. We are discussing now that these measures can continue, and I would once again like to point out to my fellow Members that Parliament can withdraw this at any time, in the hands of the Parliament. My fellow Member, Mr Kocsis, said that Viktor Orbán will decide when the emergency is over. When the plague is over will be an objective fact. It is not up to Viktor Orbán, it is not up to the Hungarian government, it is not up to the ruling parties and it is not up to the opposition parties when it ends. When it's over, it'll be an objective end, and it'll be an emergency. The Parliament can withdraw this any day, you can initiate it, we can initiate it, anyone can initiate it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But what's important now is that the government remains capable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-24-104	Thank you very much. Tibor Nunkovics will also be next to the two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman. She will be followed by Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi.
u2020-03-24-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-03-24-106	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm gonna tell everyone who's next, because I think it's a little out of order right now, so I'm gonna apologize to everyone. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's one thing we haven't talked about in the last two days, and that's what people want. Because the thing is, my fellow Members, is that people are so sick of us fighting political battles here, you know? [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] Press the button, Congressman Pál Völner. I've wanted to talk to you a lot, but we haven't had the chance, but I hope someday. So people are tired of us beating and beating each other here instead of taking action against the virus and the spread of the epidemic. And that's what they want us to see. That's what we've been supporting you on. For the last two weeks, we've been there for every seven-partisan meeting, and we've supported you in everything. And you're left with no enemies. Oops! Well, you'll have to make one quickly, won't you? And they bring in such a law; you can argue that you think it's good, and we don't think it's good. But if you were in opposition right now, and say the Jobbik were in government, Peter James would be the Prime Minister, you would be in reverse position... [[Nacsa Lawrence: God forbid! The president's ringing the bell.]] Okay, okay, now you're saying that, Lawrence, to God forbid. But think about it: would you give him that power? Would you give him that power if he asked for it? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You!]] Would you give it to him? You wouldn't give it to him. Unlimited power must not be given to anyone. It doesn't matter who's on the government, whether it's left-wing, liberal, national-conservative, it doesn't matter who gets unlimited power. And interestingly, in 2010, when the red sludge disaster was, they were able to regulate by regulation. In 2013, when the flood took place, I was on Esztergom, packing bags. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Me too!]] Yeah, we just haven't met once, by chance. But they were still able to make regulations. And don't tell my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, that Parliament, because those you refer to, are two-thirds. And you rule by two-thirds. If they wanted it, we could have decided the last day that you and the government's rights would remain. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We could have made that decision yesterday. But you made a political battle out of it. It's a shame!
u2020-03-24-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to spare the conversation in Parliament, if possible. It's time for Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-109	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to two short things. Máté Kocsis said that the MSZP directly set a 90-day deadline, so that when the virus is the biggest roof, the government should be the lamest and that the whole thing should be moved. Officer Müller Cecília, Chief of Medicine, says every session, in a briefing, that they don't know when the virus will peak. You may say otherwise to the government, but you don't know that today, so I reject Mr. Kocsis' accusation. The other concerns the capital, because my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, accused Gergely Christmas: what is it that she now governs by decree, it doesn't hurt the opposition? I ask you, my dear sir, you should know that Fidesz passed the disaster protection law in 2011. In an emergency, the powers of the General Assembly will automatically be transferred to the Mayor, and that is true of all mayors. He can't do anything else. That is why Gergely Christmas told the public that this situation, which she did not decide to abuse, will not be abused, and since I spoke to the representatives of the capital a few minutes earlier, I am aware that she has only made a decision that has been agreed with the Fidesz capital faction, and that so far all the actions of Gergely Christmas have been supported by the Fidesz capital faction. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-03-24-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We now have the speeches from our representatives. However, since Minister Judit Varga has asked for the floor, it is obvious that the author should have the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-03-24-111	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear House, Thank you very much for your comments. Allow me to respond to similar comments in their content. First of all, I would like to repeat what was said in my expo, the Latin saying that we should first create the possibility of life and then argue. Congresswoman Wind said that it was life, home protection, job protection. Thank you, that is what we are trying to do, that is what we are doing, and as Minister of Justice, my most important task here is to swear on the Constitution, the Fundamental Law, which, by the way, for Andrea Varga-Damm, the Constitutional Court, our most recent Constitutional Judge, to ensure the conditions of constitutional operation as Minister of Justice. That's what this law is all about. This law should be read with good reason, in good faith, in the hope of common action, in the absence of debates in such a situation, and in the focus on what Hungary needs so that its citizens feel safe. This has also been said several times as to where security is. This bill is exactly about security, this whole debate. This mandate is not unlimited; it is not unlimited in terms of time or space. It is clearly stated in point 2 of the proposal. § 2 that the government may exercise this power to the extent necessary, in proportion to the objective pursued, in order to prevent, manage, eradicate and prevent the harmful effects of the human epidemic under the Regulation. I don't like to repeat myself, but in my expo, I've classified these conditions for about 15 minutes. Moreover, as a result of the seven pairs of negotiations, this necessary and proportionate requirement has been added at the request of the opposition, which is, moreover, a fundamental requirement in all the rule of law. The law is about ensuring the framework and conditions of the rule of law, and yesterday's opposition vote has put the country, which is already in trouble, into legal uncertainty. [[16.40]] It is particularly grotesque to read in light of what kind of international attack, what kind of wave of rule of law criticism we are once again experiencing. And if I hadn't been quite sure that according to the well-established old Sargentini formula, this comes from the feathers of domestic, unfortunately opposition politicians, which appears abroad in foreign languages, if I hadn't been sure, unfortunately, Mr Arató is no longer here, but he used the same words, he said that he had unlimited power until the end of time. I've had my colleagues do a little collection of the international press released in the last 24 hours: Politico, Süddeutsche Zeitung, Tageseitung, Der Standard, Die Welt, EUobserver, Neue Zürcher Zeitung, and I could list them, but also Dunja Mijatović, our old friend, the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, who doesn't even bother to read the text of the law, and we can hear the same choirs that the law is well written here with its dictatorial power, who could send Orbán to the Parliament for unlimited time. That was a quote from Tageseitung. Or from Dunja Mijatović, the Commissioner for Human Rights: Parliament is preparing to authorise the government without any control or restriction. These voices are eeriely chanting. I've been through this a lot. In July 2018, the same kind of pseudo-news production took place in Europe from well-identifiable domestic sources and civil society organisations, where they infected the whole of Europe with the fact that the Stop Soros bill will lead to innocent human rights defenders in prison if a buttered bread is given to a migrant child. As was the false news then, it is the same false news that is being spread today in Europe about the Hungarian draft law. I would like to thank Minister Szijjártó very much for giving us detailed examples of the double standard, because that is what every country in Europe is doing today. What's happening? The disputies disappear, with the outbreak of the virus suddenly the rule of law disputes have disappeared, nation states have suddenly been strengthened, everyone is completely understandable, selfishly closing their borders and taking measures to protect their own citizens. So it was instinctive action. I would like to ask the Hungarian Prime Minister's apology in the German media in the same way as now, five years later, but I find it particularly outrageous that the Hungarian opposition assists in this, that in such a time of distress they are still trying to weaken the action of one of the sovereign governments, that they are attacking the Hungarian government's actions and this law at an unprecedented speed, in an unprecedented extent, even in terms of linguistic diversity, very quickly. I will be very happy to face these debates, and I will now give the declarations to foreign organs, but it is extremely damaging to such an attack at a time like this, and it is even sadder to say that it is absolutely connected with the Hungarian opposition. I would now like to respond to the comments made by individual Members. In my expo, I did not pay attention to the fact that Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea was in there in very, very detailed terms, I tried to get ahead of the unfounded criticism, because this is not an extension of the emergency, this is not what Article 53 of the Fundamental Law is about. It is very brief, but very serious, because what we are talking about here is that this decree of the Government, which may be made in the event of an emergency, will remain in force for 15 days, unless the Government, under the mandate of the Parliament, extends the scope of the regulation. So it is not an emergency that needs to be extended, because unfortunately it will be extended by life and objective circumstances. And although the Fundamental Law generally states in Article 50 that the constitutional actor, the body which proclaimed it, is entitled to terminate, the government is therefore entitled to terminate under the main rule, but even in this draft law the author gave the benefit precisely thanks to the conciliations that the Parliament will be entitled to decide on this. The whole law will come to an end when the emergency is over, which, of course, we hope, life will produce as soon as possible, because, after all, the great picture is that life itself will end the emergency, and I hope very much to eliminate it as soon as possible. So I would like once again to call on the honourable Members and gentlemen for a thorough study of the Fundamental Law, because there it is very clearly surrounded by who has the right, who can do what, and it is worth noting in the draft law that Parliament could withdraw this mandate at any time, even tomorrow. For what? To extend the scope of the Regulations. Imagine that every 15 days, perhaps hours to minutes, or not every 15 days, we would have to meet every day in order to accept everything one by one, since regulations are not issued every 15 days, but are almost daily. And here, let me say that yes, we are paying attention to the needs of citizens. The Ministry of Justice receives hundreds of requests every day, letters not only from individual citizens, but also from professional orders, public bodies, advocacy organisations. We are working with all our efforts to take everyone's opinions into account, and thank you very much, my colleagues very much, for trying to think as widely as possible, because we have hours, precisely due to the urgent need to review almost the entire domestic legal system, and we are responsible for bringing each such regulation into their constitutional order. This is not a small job, and with the countless ideas that come from the opposition, which, by the way, arrives from citizens, our only goal is to bring it to light as soon as possible in the form of regulations within the legal framework. Here, let me say what was also, I think, a criticism from Mr Arató, but perhaps Andrea Varga-Damm also mentioned why this law is a law, why it is a law. Let me also return to our Fundamental Law, which does not say disaster protection, but says that the fundamental law must determine in what field the government's regulations may be issued during such an emergency period. And, yes, no one would have ever thought, especially during the floods, when disaster control is typically a means of defense, that mankind, Europe and Hungary will ever face such a challenge, which is present everywhere, whether here on the benches in the form of fingerprints, in the countryside, in the capital, on the borders, on the waterfront, anywhere. The disaster management law wasn't prepared for this. No one could have been prepared for it. That is why it is very important that this law be fundamental, which tells us the scope of the government's action to defend itself against the coronal virus, but once again: it is not unlimited. Targeted: for protection, in order to prevent the consequences of the epidemic; limited in time, because it is suitable for the time of emergency. The law itself enters the self-destruct clause, that when the emergency is over, the Parliament decides that the law is over. So it is very important that we can define these frameworks in a fundamental law. It has also been said that what about public procurement rules, what about this and why we don't order more protective equipment. Each such intervention requires precise authorisations so that both this and this law can be rewritten so that, for example, protective equipment can be obtained as soon as possible by accelerating or suspending public procurement rules. So exactly what you're demanding, that's exactly what you need this law for. As Minister of Justice, this is my job to ensure these frameworks, these legal frameworks. It was said in my expo, maybe the joke didn't come out of it, but the point was that anyone who tells me today's taxatically what conditions of life, which laws should be applied, and it should be listed now, may not lie, but it doesn't open up all the details of the truth. That is why the mandate in the draft law is so that beyond the extremely measures and rules contained in the disaster protection law, and here it is, that the legislator is trying to categorize the phenomena of life in some way, and is trying to think of everything that we may not yet know what else we need in the time of the epidemic, what law we will need to touch very quickly, because you or even citizens will demand it, with the decree of the government, in order to guarantee the life, health, personnel, wealth and legal certainty of citizens and the stability of the national economy. I don't think there's a lawyer, a constitutional lawyer in the country today, who could tell us more safely in a taxative list what we're gonna need. So, ladies and gentlemen, this law guarantees legal order. I am very sorry that yesterday we could not have been able to negotiate this accelerated, house-to-house separation. We are thinking about a lot of legal solutions now that we will be able to bridge the lack of legal certainty over the time that these regulations will expire. [[16.50]] Allow me to say a few more words about the fact that there has been more criticism of the preamble to the law, because, in a misguided interpretation, it says that the government wants to eliminate the Parliament. No one in this room knows what's going to happen, what's waiting for us, and the preamble, let me protect my lawyers who have written the proposal, says that . the meeting of the Parliament may be suspended as a result of the human epidemic. The -six, -six instructors in the Hungarian language means that an opportunity in the future, in an uncertain situation. This does not say that we will cease the meetings of the Parliament, and even oblige the government to report regularly on the measures, so the Parliament will keep constant control. Compared to our options, we even expanded the provisions of the Fundamental Law, as we said that the Parliament would have to decide on the end of the emergency instead of the government. And the most important thing, which is all kinds of barren, time-limit disputes, I think it's good to put out now: Parliament will withdraw at any time. It is not 90 days, it is much more than that, it gives Parliament more powers than you would otherwise demand. Why is the meeting of the Constitutional Court and the Parliament not electronically? I am very sorry, the Fundamental Law does not yet contain a special rule for this, as it says that it expressly requires the presence of Members:. Unless the Fundamental Law provides otherwise, Parliament will take its decisions with the vote of more than half of the Members of Parliament present. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Car Cake Olivio: Change the Fundamental Law!]] Thank you very much, the Fundamental Law cannot be amended by way of house rules, and I do not believe that at this time of distress it is precisely a fundamental law amendment that would resolve this situation. However, the Constitutional Court has the rules of the fundamental law, because it is not defined in the Fundamental Law, so it was possible to apply this rule in this law, and this is precisely what provides the legal order. The fact that it's three days old or four days old, I don't think it serves legal certainty. So we leave it to work at home, teleworking, and, where appropriate, the Constitutional Courts, if they receive a submission that is otherwise possible for each regulation. So the extraordinary legal order, the special legal order, does not mean extra-constitutionality. That is what this draft law is all about, that, within the framework of the Constitution, we must read this law in good faith and in the knowledge of common action in good faith. Allow me one more word about the criticisms of the Btk. amendment. In general, I'd like to say to everyone who doesn't have a shirt, don't take it personally. It is also extremely symbolic of where the criticism comes from and, by the way, let us trust in Hungarian justice. I specifically asked my criminal lawyers, who, by the way, have been thinking about many days on the text, what we can suggest in order to meet all the fundamental principles of criminal law, to meet the criteria of applicability, I asked them to write me some backgrounds in such a case, so if you'll excuse me, I'll read this. Hungary has not yet been affected by a serious health threat to society as a whole, or an epidemic or a devastating threat to the possibility of losing life, such as the current outbreak of the coronal virus. This epidemic has led to legal uncertainty regarding the long-standing legal framework for the concept of public hazard. After all, in the event of public danger, what does a typical qualified Hungarian lawyer think? We are talking about an extremely easily localised problem in time, and it is very easy for us to apply the law. But in the event of such a situation, a Hungarian judge in the epidemiological situation would surely find himself facing a very difficult situation. This is why the general extension of the concept of "public danger" cannot be justified, as it could lead to the discretionary, uncertain and abusive application of the facts of the rumor. The corona virus dominates public speaking, people are more sensitive to false claims about it, and panic is easier in humans. In this situation, the legislator must guide the border, and the slow development of the law is not the time. The new facts indicate as narrow as possible the scope of prohibited conduct. The new facts include three filters: knownly untrue facts or real facts could be distorted, large disclosures to the public and, most importantly, the risk of preventing or frustrating the effectiveness of the defence. And now I am looking at the Member: the opposition at the seven-party conciliation asked us to take out the, we took it out, I agree, so the legal text is more secure. It is important to note that this triple filter is not included in the facts in force to protect public rest. Protecting the effectiveness of defence, in accordance with the requirement of constitutional proportionality, would only prohibit what is now the most dangerous to society, i.e. if we are to endanger or prevent effectiveness. We are aware of the importance of free debate on public affairs in the current situation, the regulatory proposal has been designed accordingly, taking into account the practice of the Constitutional Court, and we only consider it justified to impose penalties in the case of the narrowest, actual, false statements of facts. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So I'm telling you, for all baseless fears, those who don't have shirts, don't take it personally. Sober thinking, common sense, because that's what we need right now, discipline. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-112	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have speeches from Members. First, Mr Róbert Dudás, from Jobbik, followed by Mr Tamás Harangozó, from MSZP, and Mr Tamás Harangozó, from Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member, will be able to speak for two minutes, and then we will proceed accordingly. So Congressman Róbert Dudás has the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. Judi Varga is leaving the meeting room.]]
u2020-03-24-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, I am very sorry that Madam Minister of Justice has just left, but the Secretary of State is still here. The facts that the Minister has just listed in connection with Btk., I think that what has been going on the pro-government social media since yesterday afternoon, is incitement and hatred, it is exactly exhausting. I'm gonna wonder if the sentence will be applied, by the way. Allow me to introduce an article from a political scientist who is related to you, and he began by saying: "The sense of democratic political proportion is only real in times of emergency and war. Most of all, in this case, the country needs a great leader more than the great leader needs a greater power. And that is why a great leader needs greater power only for a limited period of time. I read this from the pen or typewriter of a political scientist associated with you. A lot has been said, but allow me a few thoughts to respond to a few things. Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó mentioned that this is a pandemic, and from the complex word, he would be underlining the world, which is almost everywhere in the world. That is true, and every government is trying to take action on its own authority to prevent it: some are well, some are less, some are making wrong decisions, and now they are going after the events, and some have postponed measures that should have been taken much sooner. Now allow me to put you in chronology a little bit, just three or four dates. On the 17th of No-vember this virus appeared in Vuhan. On January 7, then, after a long month and a half, the World Health Organization announced it. We waited until March 11th to announce the emergency with no real preparation until then. We have heard from the Secretary of State that a large cargo plane landed today with a delivery of 20 tonnes, and nine such shipments are expected this week. We are very happy about this, but we feel too late for these steps. As it was absolutely not comforting yesterday, Prime Minister, when he said that we could make 25,000 masks a week, but he could go up... Sorry, we have 25,000 masks a day... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 25 grand a week!]] Thank you, then, back to the original thing: we can make 25,000 masks a week, but this could go up to 80,000. I beg you, there are ten million of us! [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Where is the one made?]] Plus, we're talking about masks that don't last a lifetime. [[Lajos Rig: They're for single use!]] They're a lot of disposable masks, and it doesn't matter where they're used anyway. We also heard from Prime Minister yesterday that from now on, you can get adequate protective equipment in the intensive care unit, and that workers in other departments can also get certain protective equipment. But I beg you, it was March 23rd, March 24th! Where have these measures been? ! [[17.00]] I believe that now Prime Minister has sent scouts and raiders out into the world, and everywhere now he tries to use military slogans and military terms and try to live, but please believe that these are extremely late. I'm sure you've seen it, I don't know if it's going to be sent to you, I'm sure it is, the paramedics, the law enforcement workers, the shopkeepers, the mailmen's cry for help... Facebook is full of this, that they're not insured by the condition of proper work, the condition of protecting their health. This was said here in Parliament yesterday by several speakers. And it is very interesting that when Peter James asked us to applaud the real heroes who are doing everything today to protect us and for the good of the whole country, because the real heroes, Prime Minister, can say that the 133 Members who voted yes yesterday, no, the real heroes who are doing everything to control the virus today, stood up and applauded them, and it is very talkative that none of the government representatives were willing to applaud health workers and all the people who otherwise risk their health and lives. [[László Böröcz: We applauded him twice!]] Let's jump back to March 11th, right, that's when the emergency was announced, the government got the authority for 15 days. Since then, we have made a number of proposals for you, many of which have been accepted, and we thank you. By the way, we've sent every single one of our proposals with good intentions. Perhaps it is also talkative that Károly Kontra once specifically highlighted and thanked for these constructive suggestions, even criticisms. But yesterday, that wasn't the case, that wasn't the vote yesterday. It wasn't about the virus, it wasn't about the virus, it was about the virus crisis, it was about taking over power completely. Several speakers have already said that the emergency situation on the part of the municipalities creates a situation where the mayor can make decisions without the municipal body. As a former mayor, I find it outrageous what happened on the part of several pro-government mayors, taking advantage of the fact that, by the way, he has an opposition body and has quickly appointed leaders and sub-Mayors, he has accepted a budget which, by the way, the democratically elected body has refused to accept. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] We ask you, Thursday afternoon at one o'clock, the Legislative Committee has been convened... [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó to the Fidesz Members:...to the Minister. What are you talking about? Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I have listened to you with all due respect, please, my fellow Members, listen to what I have to say. Thursday afternoon, at one o'clock, the Legislative Committee was called. We have already tabled one yesterday morning, with a deadline of 31 May, this proposal for a resolution to authorise the Government to govern by 31 May. May 31 is not carved in stone, even by chance, if you say that it should be 90 days, that it should be 120 days, then it could be the subject of a healthy debate, but at the same time, referring back to which I began, the political scientist associated with you said that it would not be possible to give an unlimited mandate. And Minister for Foreign Affairs is no longer in the room, but he has mentioned a number of international examples of measures taking place across Europe and beyond. There was no mention of a single country that the government had asked for an indefinite mandate and that it would have received it because it didn't have one. Allow me to conclude with one question, my fellow Member has already asked: what is your opinion on how you would vote on this issue, for example, if this mandate was requested by a government led by another party and its leader? [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] How would you vote? I'll tell you what, I honestly know they won't answer, and I'd vote no. I would vote 'no' even if the government led by Peter James asked for it. No one should be given such authority, no one should be given such authority, this decision should remain the power of Parliament, because the parliament has been authorised by the population of Hungary, and it should not be taken away by the government in such a despicable way. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-24-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'd like to start from the beginning. A lot of people, with good intentions or ignorance or direct deception, are talking about what is really going on in this country and what is going on in Parliament, what has to be decided, what does not have to be decided, and why we are debating this law here. Let's start at the beginning. Assuming that all my fellow members of the Government did not hide the relevant rules of the Fundamental Law, I would also like to state clearly what the situation is. The fact is that the emergency is ordered by the government, and the government and only the government can decide on the end of the emergency. It's in the Fundamental Law. No one can override that. Second, the extraordinary decisions and regulations of the government in such a situation automatically expire within 15 days, unless the Hungarian Parliament authorizes the Government to extend them. I have the good news or the bad news that I think is bad for you, because it turns out that you are playing a devious game, that, according to the text of the Fundamental Law, this decision, that is to say, the extension of the decisions you have already taken, is being taken by Parliament by a simple majority according to the rules. That's what you won't do on Monday, Tuesday, last week, or next week, as far as I can tell. They are talking about two thirds and four fifths, but the fact is that the parliamentary decision extending the current extraordinary situation, the emergency, is a half decision. What is it, then, that takes two thirds? Two-thirds of this is because the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice is fundamentally different from the Fundamental Law and gives the government an incredibly broad power compared to the current text of the Fundamental Law, something that is not in the Fundamental Law. This can only be adopted by a two-thirds majority; it is still in question that it can be adopted, but it can be adopted. Then why did we have to sit here in Parliament yesterday at the 4th vote? What is this circus that's going on here? You could ask the ordinary citizen. Because the Ministry of Justice and the Hungarian Government are unlikely to know that 15 days will expire in 15 days, or that they have not read the house rules in their life, so they have not submitted this proposal to Parliament in time for unforeseen reasons. Therefore, by a majority of four fifths, he asked Parliament to depart from its own rules and to pass this law. I translate into Hungarian: Minister of State, if you submit this bill on the day after the publication of the regulation, this House will discuss this bill on a regular schedule last week, and the Fidesz faction will accept it by two thirds of a majority yesterday or today. That's the thing. This government that's prepared for everything, which one don't you know? 15 days is 15 days, or what are the negotiating rules of the Hungarian Parliament? It is not that, my fellow Members, that this is a planned, script-like, outrageous political game they are playing. And they were able to have fun inviting us to seven-party negotiations, to make us feel that something really has changed here; to wonder what we would like to suggest; to cooperate with everyone who lives in this country for the sake of this nation. Because there may be a less than two-thirds congressman sitting in this Parliament, but I don't think it's questionable that the social support of the opposition is almost head-on with the Fidesz. [[17.10]] So you don't look halfway across the country as partners and play this dirty game, I can't tell you anything else. Our proposal is presented now, but there are two more sentences on what has been said, sorry, about trust. It has also been said here by Minister that the Constitutional Court is there as a sufficient guarantee and that we do not assume that Fidesz is in breach of constitutional rules. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, the Constitutional Court's deadline for this Parliament to settle the matter of disabled pensioners has expired. You have refused to make that decision in Parliament in violation of the law for a year! How can you trust yourself? Well, not next year, but next time, they'll either do something or they won't, this is it! For a year now, you've been violating the law, and you're not bringing into Parliament what the Constitutional Court has ordered you to do. Well, what kind of trust is there here? The other thing is that Parliament can bring it back at any time; this is much better than the deadline, because here Parliament can withdraw this proposal at any time. Well, Matthew Kocsis gave his very honest and horribly frightening answer at his press conference today. When a journalist asked whether it was possible for the government to make a different and over-extensive decision at a level that could no longer fit, that the Fidesz faction would then call Parliament together and withdraw that decision, do you know what its answer was from the hips, without thinking? - No, no, no, no, That's the guarantee, Mr. Secretary? Is that what anyone's supposed to accept? He didn't say that he didn't assume that he would do this, but if he did, the Fidesz faction would be the first to call Parliament together and withdraw that decision, but to say one word without thinking: no. Now, that is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, and the fact that, while we are debating this, today, with a two-thirds majority urgency in the middle of the epidemic threat, the most important issue that Parliament was concerned with was how the government should remove the powers of appointment of theatres from the municipalities. I don't know if a sane person realizes that we're being treasoned and murdered here, while you're in the middle of the epidemic the most important thing they're dealing with is who's going to appoint the theatre directors? Is that why the Hungarian Parliament is being put together in the event of a virus threat? Amazing! Our position remains clear, simple and fair. We are willing to give our own vote to the two-thirds law so that you and your government can deal with the crisis with much greater scope than the existing Fundamental Law, if you are willing to accept our request in the joint decision and set a deadline for this. Here I say, unfortunately, Minister Szijjártó has already left, he is a brilliant magician with words and he is distorting real facts, by the way, Btk.-in fact, because in Romania the other day the state of emergency was ordered for 30 days he forgot to add it, and he wanted to make it an example of the opposite. It's pretty amazing. I would add, by the way, that the Members voted electronically and did not hijack them by sitting in, sending their representative in contact with the coronal virus epidemic risk to sit in Parliament, which is amazing what they are doing on their own. Ladies and gentlemen, We would like this deadline to be included in our textual amendment submitted, Mr State Secretary, on a basis the Hungarian Government will do as it pleases for 90 days, on day 90 the Hungarian Parliament may extend this mandate for another 30 days as we propose. You can argue that this could be more than that. We also add that you can do this at any time, because our law would require the Hungarian Parliament to make this decision by electronic ballot. Therefore, there is no reason for the Parliament not to be able to make that decision. But, yes, there is an important part, and it's the only thing that hurts you, and from now on, what you're doing is really suspicious, and we're way past the fact that, at the end of the extension, at the latest, these decisions will expire. So you're not willing to agree to this, to have one last day of this measure, when either the Parliament will approve them, but no matter what the government wants, it will end. According to the current text, there is no such thing, and it is not a guarantee that the leader of the Fidesz faction expressed from the hips that he cannot imagine Fidesz calling the Hungarian Parliament against the government at any time. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a lot at stake here. I don't know why they're still messing with this. I told you, whether you can extend the emergency by a half majority, you can decide by two thirds what you want to do for yourself. One thing they could not do is to play a simple political game here in Parliament with us and with the people, while we have come to the point that, in the viral epidemic that has been treated as a public fact for more than a month, we may have been able to provide real protective equipment to doctors working in intensive care units today. I know that only because they say so, but they don't even claim that all the other doctors would get one. We're here on the 30th day of the virus epidemic, or I don't know, and you're messing with the fact that once you don't have the majority to make a decision, you won't listen to the party whose vote you're counting on together. It's pretty amazing. I continue to ask you to accept our proposal, and if you want, we can accept it tomorrow by way of house rules, whichever day you want. But if you don't do that, all the responsibility will be yours. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-03-24-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Bencsik is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-24-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For more than three hours now, I have been listening to the lingering slash that the government has said that the opposition has sided with the people against the virus, and the opposition has said that it is building an Orbán dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, That doesn't make any sense. Let's just say this is all going on here is an act. It's a lousy charade that the opposition parties were dragged into first, and now the entire Hungarian society. As MPs, our job should be to fight the virus together. Instead, what's happening is that you've been arguing for hours about a draft legislation that makes absolutely no sense. What we're doing right now would make even more sense if everyone sitting here in this Chamber went down to Kossuth Square, rang the bell, found an old lady, asked for their shopping cart and went shopping instead, or took their dog for a walk. Even that would make more sense! 'Cause what's this about? Máté Kocsis, leader of the Fidesz faction, told us what every Hungarian person who lives in this country knows, that Fidesz has not had a special mandate with two thirds in the last ten years, he did what he wanted in the country, and he doesn't need it now. They can now make every single regulation, every piece of legislation that is necessary, and he is right. It is the government's decision to declare an emergency, not the Parliament, and this emergency will remain in force and will remain in force as long as Viktor Orbán decides. If you decide to take two weeks, then two weeks, if two months, then two months, if two years, then two years, but that will apply as long as you want this emergency to apply. And as long as this is in place, it is possible to make any government decree, to submit it over and over again, to create the laws, the government regulations that are necessary for defence. These government decrees can be sanctioned and confirmed by the Parliament at any time. But if the Powers Act has nothing to do with defense because I'm convinced it has nothing to do with defence, then the question arises why it was submitted. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that you have submitted this law to be voted down by the opposition, and have written this law in such a way that it does not come to mind that a man of sound law and morality can support this proposal, so there is no representative of a country who can say to any government anywhere in the world, at least in Europe, that I am giving an unlimited mandate for an eternal period of time. There's no such thing! [[17.20]] In particular, it is not possible for you, who have steered in the last ten years to play the legal loopholes where you can, and are being played out now, because your mayors and their country representatives are working hard on Komlón, Szekszárd, Nagykanizsa, to play out these loopholes, which the current crisis has meant, and to make their own laws. I ask you, I call upon you, especially the members of the government, to put an end to this charade. Go home, do your job, take care of the real things, and save the country, protect the Hungarian people, not the opposition, but the virus! Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congressman Tibor Nunkovics from Jobbik would like to speak. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As I said earlier, and now my fellow Member, János Bencsik, has insisted that, really, no matter how long we provide this pasta, the situation will not change. So we created or created, especially the ruling parties, a situation where we are fighting here, instead of making concrete, meaningful decisions. Well, let's just say how interesting it is that when the housing funds had to be liquidated, they could easily pass a law in about a day and a half. Now, why doesn't two thirds succeed? Where is this will? I would like to make it clear to you once again: we have only one objection to this proposal, namely that there is no time limit. No matter how much time we give you in defense, really, 60 days, let's make it 90, let's make it 180, I swear I'll even go to 360, let's have 360 days, let's have hands on it, but without a time limit, it's not going to be possible for anyone in today's world in Hungary or in any other country. So I would like to ask you to call Parliament tomorrow, to talk about this, to remove the time limit, to put a definite time interval in this proposal, and we, I swear to you, will really support this proposal. I ask you not to argue, but to work for the Hungarian people. And finally, I have just read the news that, for example, the curfew has already been introduced in Romania. We're way behind in this, too. Please understand that a limited curfew, at least limited, must be introduced as soon as possible. Thank you.
u2020-03-24-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Böröcz also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-121	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to respond briefly to a few things. First of all, I am sorry that you left, Mr Bellozó, because you are not right about anything else, and about yesterday's vote, when the law should have been tabled. On 11 March, when the emergency was announced, Parliament had adopted an agenda for two weeks. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] It would not have helped under house rules even if we had submitted this proposal earlier, so the emergency procedure was in fact the fastest way to do so. And, by the way, I would also like to add that yesterday you voted down one thing to vote on today, because that is what actually happened. You voted yesterday to be able to decide on this law today, and after today's debate, it would have obviously been possible to make a decision. I understand a lot of things. I am sure that there are many Members in your ranks who make proposals with good intentions and would like to help in this situation, I am sure, and as was the case in the seven-party negotiations, the Fidesz faction has accepted many of these proposals, and there was agreement in them, but something seems to have gone wrong. However, please do not think that if there is a dispute, then you usually choose the simplest way to do this: Fidesz is to blame, just as in a losing election, Fidesz is to blame because it has rewritten the electoral system. If they win by accident, oh, well, then it's perfect, democracy flourishes, if they lose, then there's dictatorship. That's usually your attitude, but thank you very much, I'll keep going. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-122	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for the help of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. We will begin the following speeches by Members. So now, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi will have the floor, she will be followed by Congressman Tibor Bana, and then there will be a two-minute opportunity for further speeches. Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-123	Thank you for your patience. I'm sorry for running out for a moment. Therefore, in the course of the debate on this bill, I would like first of all to draw attention to three fundamental contexts. The spread of the disease can be prevented by testing, isolation of infected or suspected people, or by appropriate distance keeping, as is currently the case in medicine. In our opinion, the number of tests carried out so far has not been satisfactory. Now that we've been announced today that we're getting 100,000 tests from China, hopefully we'll have more testing, especially now that it's in the government's interest to finally test it. So far, isolation has not been considered appropriate, but at today's press conference of the operational tribe it has been announced that there is also a separation of respiratory infection and other patients in GPs. And the point I would like to make is: neither testing nor isolation requires extraordinary measures, these tasks can also be solved on the basis of the rules in force, if the conditions are available. This must be understood today by the Hungarian population, those on the right and those on the left. The third is that distance retention requires the introduction of emergency emergency measures only if we think of strict rules such as the imposition of a partial or full curfew, but at present, both the majority of experts and the government consider that this is not necessary. Furthermore, the MSZP continues to consider the reduction of the negative economic consequences of the coronal virus epidemic as a fundamental task. International economic analysis institutes, such as six major London analytical centres, account for 11 per cent economic downturns in Italy, 8 per cent in Germany and 5 per cent in the United States. The forecast for Hungary is about minus 2 and plus 0.8 percent, but there are much more pessimistic scenarios. However, in the event of a prolonged epidemic, we can, of course, expect worse data. The MSZP therefore considers it necessary to introduce further economic protection measures as quickly as possible. The strict rules of the European Union are no longer an obstacle to this, since yesterday the Council of Finance Ministers basically gave way to budget expenditure aimed at overcoming the crisis. Germany, which has a very strict fiscal policy, is also likely to consider the introduction of a rescue package of more than EUR 750 billion. So under these circumstances, there is no budgetary barrier to, for example, increasing pensions by at least 6.5 percent this year and bringing forward the payment of the year-end inflation-adjusted pension supplement, as well as giving a one-time allowance of HUF 20,000 to those under 100 thousand forints and pension-like supplements. However, we do not see any reason why health and social workers on the front line should receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000, which the government was able to do before Christmas last year with the police. There is a huge need for these people to make money, as they are the most vulnerable to fighting and fighting the virus in the front line. Furthermore, as decided by the Czech and Romanian governments, the State also undertakes to pay the wages of those on forced leave due to the epidemic. Finally, the MSZP proposes that unemployment benefit should be not for 3 months, but for 9 months, and should amount to a minimum of HUF 100,000. This now requires fundamental and rapid decisions. [[17 .30]] I look at my time frame, and I would quickly say that, joining what my colleague Tamás Harangozó said, why this is a theatre, what you are doing here instead of saving people's lives. The government has had all the opportunities and needs to be understood by the Hungarian population, but we will make it clear that the regulations issued so far could have been extended by half a law, thereby extending the declared emergency. The Fundamental Law requires a two-thirds decision only to confirm the state of emergency and state of emergency and the preventive defence situation established by the Government by Parliament, but Fidesz has directly written two-thirds laws into the new proposal, in addition to bringing them to Parliament late, after the expiry of the 15 days, because if it had been brought in on time, it could have been extended by a half majority, not directly brought in or not brought in in on time. So Fidesz has directly written two-thirds laws in it, even though it should not be decided in the bill whether the Constitutional Court can continue its operation during an emergency because it is already in the Fundamental Law and is regulated, and a separate law could also decide to postpone interim elections and referendums. There is therefore nothing to say that such measures should be taken here in order to require a two-thirds decision, all of this being an attempt to make the situation of the opposition more difficult. They have no argument for the two-thirds, so they have neither an argument nor an argument for the four-fifth question; therefore, neither political, legal, nor moral responsibility can be passed on to the Hungarian opposition. The opposition will be able to explain to the Hungarian population in a uniform way why what they are doing is a theatre, and why it is disgusting behaviour and disgusting political behaviour that in such a situation, during a pandemic, when Hungarian people died today, you focus on your own political power, not on testing to provide protective equipment to Hungarian people and protecting the lives of Hungarian people. They're gonna pay for this!
u2020-03-24-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Tibor Bana is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-24-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a responsible, independent opposition parliamentary representative, I am trying constructively to stand up to any proposal that comes before the Parliament. I think that this is the responsibility of all of us in the current emergency, and it is very important that this attitude characterizes all of us. Unfortunately, we did not experience this from the government's side yesterday, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in his reply that we will resolve this crisis without you. This is certainly not a responsible government attitude, and I was confident that we could move in a slightly different direction during today's debate, and that the atmosphere of European debate culture would instill the Hungarian Parliament, but unfortunately, this was not the case, as we were once again faced with statements of a similar nature from the pro-government side. Yesterday, my independent colleague János Bencsik and I published a communication in which we made it clear that we are saying no to unlimited teljes power, because in this case we are talking about nothing but strict content and timeless teljesty. At the same time, however, we considered it very important to present, in the spirit of our constructive approach, a package of amendments which consists of five points, and we believe that if they are considered and supported, then a situation can be reached that, in the case of voting, even a more serious consensus can be reached. Unfortunately, I have referred to this lack of cooperation, but I am confident that there may still be a change in this respect from the pro-government side. The extension of the mandate until 30 April is included, among other things, in this package, and, of course, afterwards, Parliament's consent is necessary in all cases, and I also consider it very important that the criminalisation of the spread of rumors should be reduced, and changes should be made in this respect to the original proposal. After all, a critical article or, where appropriate, a Facebook comment should not have negative consequences, and even a criminal liability should be borne by a person who does so. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to consider these parts of the proposal, and there is also a part of it that I would like to draw your attention to in particular, since it can bring substantial results both for pro-government and opposition-led settlements if they vote in favour. I would ask you, fellow Members, especially my fellow members of the Government, not to leave the settlements alone, to help the municipalities. What do I mean? To reimburse local authorities by redeploying public finance resources for the cost of emergency response. We all know that there are a lot of settlements in Hungary that face serious financial and liquidity problems and lack of resources, it is important for them to provide this help, but I think that this may not only apply to them, but to all Hungarian settlements and municipalities that are trying to do their best in the current emergency to combat the coronal virus epidemic. Here I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that, unfortunately, I have received such a signal that even because of the inadequate retention of the deadline for reporting, municipalities are currently being punished. I ask that the government take steps to make this change, because it is in no way acceptable in the current situation, when it performs beyond the power of many municipalities to protect it, to help the people who live in those settlements. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the package of amendments that we have tabled, in particular to this section of the local government, to vote in favour of this, because this can lead to significant progress for either the people living in the capital or for those living in rural cities and small towns. Please help the people of Budapest and the people of the Hungarian countryside. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-24-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, it is now up to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély from the MSZP Group to make a proper speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-24-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry the secretary left. In his speech, he said a half sentence that the country was in order. Well, I haven't seen in the last month that it's been tidy. We keep hearing the press conference of the operational tribe, then Minister Gergely Gulyás, Máté Kocsis, and then we come into Parliament, the Prime Minister tells us what he knows this week, but I'm sorry, those general practitioners, the nurses who call us every day, or perhaps we ourselves, when we go into the pharmacy, the shops, we don't see that. You cannot have a mask, fellow Members, anywhere in this country. We see that various municipal companies, the citizens themselves, sit on the sewing machine and manufacture masks in Hungary. What the Prime Minister has announced is what kind of shipments the people sent by him brought to Hungary, and now, if I remember correctly, we are talking about over a million masks, do you know how many days is enough? This is where my better fellow Member, who worked in health care, said: we are talking about disposable masks, and thousands of people should be provided with these protective equipment every day, and then we did not even talk about citizens. You can't get a mask in the pharmacy for weeks, there's a lack of protective equipment in Hungary, but you can't get medicine, you can't get vitamin C, there's a shortage of basic medicines in Hungary, and you don't answer these questions, you don't answer them. Today's news, see that in the boxes containing a 50-pack mask, the GPs reported 40 of them. Excuse me, did someone steal 10 of them before they were handed over to GPs or hospital staff? Well, that's where we are, fellow Members? ! Or it didn't get in the box at all, someone who delivered it, sold the box to you, to the government itself. It's outrageous what's going on in this country, and the secretary is coming here and she's saying there's order in this country. You'll say, Mr. Secretary, you need discipline. [[17.40]] Secretary of State, that's where your own fellow Member was sitting. That there wasn't a Fidesz congressman in the Chamber yesterday who was gonna tell you to get out of here fast? The laws apply to everyone, Congressman. How is that possible? And then he said his test was negative. A test! Every day, Director General Cecília tells me, or I don't know how to call her, ma'am chief of staff, that three tests are needed, and everyone is equally subject to the law. If he's in a home quarantine, he's in a home quarantine if the bureau didn't order him. We have a fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, who had such a responsibility that he went into home quarantine because he was abroad and did not come to Parliament. What are they going to explain when the results of the next test are positive and you've infected your fellow Members here? You dared tell me you had no contact with anyone? He went down to lunch in the dining room, and I was there, and he kept walking around, and he came and went here among the congressmen. How can this happen? And today he came into the Chamber and voted! They do not even perceive how irresponsible they are, but they expect citizens to act responsibly. I would add that citizens and mayors who make the necessary decisions that you do not make are more normal and responsible. Zoltán Kovács said today that from tomorrow, the law that kindergartens and nurserys should be kept closed will also expire. I'm sorry, you didn't make a law like that. Tell Zoltán Kovács to read what regulations have been made in the last week or the last two weeks. The schools were not closed because we wouldn't say that, Prime Minister, Prime Minister said that they hadn't closed, that there had already been an elemental outrage on the part of the parents, because the parents had already feared their children, and they had so much responsibility that if the government didn't say that the schools had to be closed from Monday, they would decide not to take their children, because they felt the responsibility of all this. Spreading rumors? You do this every day. You, when you stand up and make false claims and do not provide the protective equipment, the means by which we can at least slow down this epidemic in Hungary. So think about what's happened in the last two days and the last two weeks in this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-24-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Lajos Rig will speak, followed by Mrs Dóra Dúró, and then by Mr László Böröcz. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, I will try to keep this debate a little calmer and clear a few things here in front of this House. Here, lawyers have given their arguments as to why it is good, why it is not good, why it needs to be voted and why it needs to be voted against. I'll try to approach this thing as a health worker and start with a very simple thesis. Whatever laws you're making here and we're voting yes, we're not gonna stop a virus with any bill, all the more so in compliance with the law. A lot of questions arose as he listened to the speakers and the expo. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said yesterday that he needs 133 brave men. I can agree with the brave one, that he needs brave men right now. I can't agree with numbers. In your faction, there is only one person who can be called brave, this man is called Dr. Gábor Zombor, who volunteered to volunteer for volunteer work now during the so-called war situation when we are fighting a war with a virus. He's a brave man. He volunteered the same way as the nine hundred people who are waiting for his registration to be activated right now. I think that today's speech will be the last in the coming emergency, because I just got the notification e-mail saying that I can go to the National Rescue Service to work on the front line, just like healthcare workers do. Viktor Orbán helped me with this. I asked him to try to speed up bureaucracy with his influence, because integrating volunteers into health organizations is very difficult. As legislators, in the coming time, you should pay attention to the fact that legislation already has the opportunity to put volunteers in order now so that chaos does not become even more chaos. This is my request to you now. About why we can't believe you, I've written down a few things. These are very simple things. They all start by wanting to believe you. I wanted to believe you when I asked if the closure of the Dobai institution was true. Mr. Secretary of State, who is unfortunately not here, said that this is a misconception, no such thing, this is false news, not closed. Two days later, it turns out, yes, they're shutting down, moving patients. So they lied. I'd like to believe you're aware that there are 2,500 immediate ventilators in the system right now. How many patients are at the end of the ventilator right now? That's why we had to bring 80 respirators. If you watch foreign broadcasts, watch the health care system in Italy or the United States, you can see that anesthesiologist doctors are already experimenting on how to breathe four patients with a ventilator, even though their care system is far more advanced than the Hungarians. I'd like to think that we're always talking about protective equipment, that there's plenty of protective equipment. But let's move on to another topic. Do you have enough single-use circuit and bacterial filters for 2500 ventilators? Have you considered that if you do not give it to God, only half of what is happening in Italy, you have been provided with adequate medical oxygen supply? Is that what anyone was thinking about? I don't think anyone's ever done that before. I would like to believe that you are complying with the legislation and the epidemiological measures. How could there have been a Fidesz congressman who's been in contact with a virus-infected person in the last few days? He didn't come in, you called him in. So they don't follow the chief of staff's orders. In the coming days of an emergency, I wish you wise and thoughtful action on legislation, because you now decide how health workers on the front can do their job. If there is no proper equipment, this war will not be lost here in Parliament, but out on the battlefield.
u2020-03-24-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker will be Mrs Dóra Dúró, and then a notary announcement will be made. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-24-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our country faces a challenge that unfortunately requires the lives of our fellow countrymen in several cases. We already have dead people, some in intensive care, and who knows how many people will be infected, who will be in serious condition, or even have to pay with their lives for this plague. The responsibility is therefore great, and this is the only aspect that each of us should take into account, how we can do as much as possible to prevent trouble and to have as few or even fatal victims as possible of this epidemic. Listening to this debate, in view of this debate, one thinks that we are not talking about the point, we are not talking about the state of people, our fellow countrymen, or our fellow human beings around the world, and it is our job to help them. It's the human feeling that it's only important for you to be able to argue with each other. Of course, it can be said that the Hungarian health system is in a catastrophic state. It's a matter of fact. This epidemic is in a state of health in Hungary that we could not have wished for. Whatever the government side says, however they try to color reality, we all experience catastrophic conditions. What keeps coming back from people on the front line is that they don't have enough protective equipment to deal with irrational issues, that they don't get enough information about what they should do, how they should defend themselves, that they should solve the situations that the country's leadership should otherwise solve. [[17.50]] That's all true. But is it our job as Members of Parliament? Will it be smoother, better defense if we vote for this bill, or will it be if we don't vote for it? That's the most important question. Everything else is less important. The representatives of our country also supported the departure from house rules, and they will also support this bill because the lives of our fellow countrymen, human life, must be more important than anything else in these days. Nothing else can compete with this. On the part of the Balliberal opposition, the fear of democracy is particularly false when the DK Mayor of New Buda, who is also supported by them, seizes power on account of the emergency situation, and decides alone, for example, to set up a municipal media company or set up a local government parking company. Right now. This was not necessary in the last six months when the body of representatives could have voted in favour, but when there is an emergency and there is a chance to decide that in one person, Imre László will do so. No Balliberal opposition party has indicated that it will withdraw its support from Imre László because he is abusing the power that the laws are putting on him in an emergency. Isn't that an abuse of power? Doesn't that bother the opposition? [[Car-Cake Olivio nods.]] Kocsis-Cake Olivio is disturbed, we expect the Dialogue to withdraw his support from Imre László in NewBuda. I'm glad that's gonna happen. Because then the parking company and the media company had nothing to do with the emergency. It's none of your business. Moreover, this bill contains guarantees stating that the government can exercise these powers only in the context of an emergency. So Viktor Orbán will not be able to set up a media company, nor will he be able to set up a parking company. You can exercise these rights in relation to the emergency situation. At the same time, it is obvious and undeniable that Fidesz has authoritarian tendencies. We have seen this in their past governance cycle, and in this cycle, too, there are a number of measures on which one rightly expects to move towards a more democratic administration. They didn't do that. But this isn't the moment we have to fight about it. This is not the moment when we have to raise our voices against the features of the Fidesz author. 'Cause I'm gonna tell you one more time about people's lives. This is what is most important in these days, so that we can protect our fellow countrymen, the health of our loved ones will be as damaged as possible. The representatives of the Hungarian Movement supported this aspect in front of everything else and will also support the Crown Virus Act. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2020-03-24-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now it's time for the notary announcement. Victor Vinnai, please do this. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-133	To Mr. László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Okay. Decision No 37 § 6 of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party on the control of the Crown Virus T/9790. During the general debate on the legislative proposal No.3 today, the remaining 24-minute timeframe will be handed over to the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: But to whom?]] Sincerely, Péter Harrach is a faction leader. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2020-03-24-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I will ask the technical staff to adapt the remaining time frame for Fidesz and KDNP accordingly. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I am speaking to Mr László Böröcz of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-24-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I was worried I wouldn't make it to 56 minutes, so thank you very much for the offer to KDNP. I will really try to respond very briefly to a few things, and I would also like to remain in Mr Bellozó's speech. The truth is that Mr Harangozó has been long-running on the fact that we are not adopting this by a half law, but by a two-thirds, fundamental law, and thus extending the scope and powers of the government. I would just like to remind you that the opposition parties had no problem with this part of the seven-party negotiations. They had a problem, and they communicated on Monday that they merely wanted to put in a deadline against the bill they had unlimited authority. But if they didn't have a problem with that then, how come they suddenly have a problem? So far, it has been thought that this mandate is necessary in order to deal with the emergency, the epidemic situation, and now suddenly not. To be honest, I told you before, of course, as always, there's been a very serious debate about who generated it, why it was generated, it's the Fidesz' fault, it's our fault again. You are also constantly talking about who is responsible for this matter. Bertalan Tóth, president of the MSZP, told me last week that I can't quote it literally, but the point was that Fidesz and the government alone are responsible for how we can handle this epidemic. If that is the case, my fellow Members, it makes me think that there are obviously disputes in every situation, such as the current bill, but if you think that it is solely our responsibility, and you have good intentions, then whether we cannot agree on a point of dispute, whether there is 90 days, no 90 days, regardless of the accelerated procedure, you could have voted in favour of the urgency procedure, because otherwise you will pin the blame on us, whether that is the case or not. So it wouldn't have cost you anything to vote four fifths yesterday to vote today on the Crown Virus Act and enter into force tomorrow. You didn't do that. Mrs Dóra Dúró mentioned Imre László, so I would not comment on that, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that indeed a lot of criticism has also been said about the fact that the Fidesz mayor has just taken hold of himself and approved the budget without the board. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Meg chose a deputy mayor!]] What is it, March 21st, the 22nd? I don't know. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 24th!]] In the middle of March, there is no approved budget for a settlement. However, it does mean that he will not be able to prepare for the crisis, so if he did, he did it very rightly and rightly. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why didn't you file it before?]] I would also like to say that I think it is very right that Congressman Rig Lajos has volunteered and will do his job, and I think it is honorable. Many of my young friends with fidelitas have also applied to various settlements, and we also help the elderly carry food, provide lunch, buy medicines. I think it's very right for someone who can help our elderly friends, our elderly compatriots. Congressman Róbert Dudás told us why we are only bringing China now and the equipment for the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that there is no Member here, and there has been the same virus situation in China as in us. In fact, China imported these protective equipment. Obviously, it has built huge production capacities over the last few months, the vast majority of which have now been released, which is why they are able to export. It is not so difficult to put this together as to why it can only now, otherwise not only Hungary, but also other European states can only import protective equipment from China now. So I think that the efforts that the government has made in this matter should be evaluated, and I think that it should be helped to keep trying to get as much of them as possible. I mean, who are the heroes? Obviously, medical staff, doctors, nurses, social workers, law enforcement workers, police officers, of course all the greatest heroes. I think it's obvious that those who stood up yesterday to vote for this law and to vote for it in an emergency procedure. These heroes, I mean, the heroes mentioned above, have been applauded several times in connection with several speeches, thanked many people for their superhuman performance by doctors, nurses, and workers. [[18.00]] And the fact, Congressman Dudás, that at the end of his performance here, Peter James tried to pull another extra skin off of this, I think that wasn't elegant, so let's all decide what he wanted. There was also talk about the part of the law about who can be punished for spreading rumors and who can't. I think that Madam Minister of Justice has said quite precisely what the conditions and steps of this are, and it has been said several times that the law itself has been submitted because, unfortunately, there are people in Hungary all over the world who are trying to benefit from the suffering of others and the good faith of others, otherwise, in many cases, they may even have to be used for financial gain and are obviously punished. What is the rumor and what is not, if there is a dispute in this matter, obviously the Hungarian justice system will be able to decide what was and what was not. So I think that, too, I'm sorry to say this, but it's just a political alarm that the opposition is trying to attack the government right now. And what has also been said, allow me to say that the Fundamental Law provides guarantees on what the government can use this mandate for: therefore, only on matters that are otherwise related to the epidemic. And of course, now it is benevolent, not benevolent, who believes what to the other, but it is still enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and at the request of the opposition, we have written these requests in several sentences, in pass, into the current bill. So after that, you're gonna say that the government here is gonna want to cement its own power for an infinite period of time, and that's what you're gonna use it for, and I don't think it's fair, and it doesn't cover reality. I would rather ask you to try to think about this and try to cooperate with the government, because it is the life of the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-24-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[For signal:]] Congressman Car Cake Olivio, please.
u2020-03-24-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just have to respond to Congressman Böröcz about what's in the Fundamental Law. Now, all of a sudden, I think of two things. One: Freedom of information and opinion on this point is included in the Fundamental Law. Obviously, I can't quote you by heart right now, but it's regulated by the Fundamental Law. That's what you regularly violate, just thinking about MTVA, the way public media works. Well, it certainly doesn't work in the spirit of the Fundamental Law. So that's what's wrong with us is that there's a lot in it, but you interpret and use these provisions at a level that's good for you. Or it also includes the fact that religiously, culturally, on the basis of skin color, ethnic groups cannot be discriminated against or harmed. The 2015 anti-refugee campaign violated this rating harshly. So what is in the Fundamental Law and what guarantees it represents, unfortunately, has never restricted you, so unfortunately, we cannot trust that.
u2020-03-24-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We ask for time then... Defiance in the benches of opposition parties.]] I am now asking Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if you would like to take the floor. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-03-24-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I believe that those who were able to follow the Minister's exposé all along, or her answers at the end of the speaker's round, could have received almost complete answers to their problems. It is not our fault that they were not overlapped or that not everyone was watching, not following the debate and the answers to it. But I would also like to add a few additions to what was said later. It is not our fault that some of the speeches here have shown that exceptional procedures, either in the emergency procedure or in the case of derogations from house rules, cannot be distinguished or that they do not know that a fundamental law cannot be taken before the House in exceptional proceedings. So perhaps some of my fellow Members will have to ensure that we do not have to engage in barren debates when we are sitting here at a late hour. The other part. The opposition speeches show that there are usually two problems with the opposition. One is when they don't talk to him, and the other is when they talk to him. So when my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, said why this bill could not have been tabled sooner, he forgot that the seven-party coordinators could not have taken place then. And it is a rather strange view that after four discussions, after adopting several of their proposals in the draft law, they practically danced out of the whole thing on this deadline, even though they could have provided only one technical assistance, since by adopting the fourth rule they should not have voted in favour of the draft itself, so they could have expressed their opposition. Thus, they have achieved the situation that, not today, the government will be able to grant this right of choice so that it can continue to deal quickly with the situation in an operational manner with the regulations, but that it will be shifted to the period after next Tuesday. In the meantime, of course, the 15-day deadline will pass, while these regulations are in force, and there will be virtually a situation that needs to be dealt with, let us say, the suspension of bank moratoriums, implementations and other measures that the opposition has suggested should not be repealed. So obviously we're gonna have to jump this step. They could have handled it very simply. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I was very pleased with the speech by my fellow Member, Dóra Dúró, who was able to express that as an opposition, he did not agree with what the government has done in recent years, or how he is taking it. Obviously, this is the job of the opposition, but it can recognize it, it can rise to the task of being an issue where every chance must be given to the government to act in an operational manner. Let's face it, Parliament is not an operational body, so it is practically unable to decide on purchases, it cannot decide whether we are ordering ten aircraft's worth of goods now, what composition it should be. There have also been various information gaps. So I'm telling Ildikó Bangóné Borbély that 1.2 million masks are now expanded with 3 million masks, so if you just follow the news... The Secretary of State said that ten airplanes of goods will arrive within a week, so the shipment will continue to come in according to the size of the epidemic. Those intensive care benefits that Prime Minister spoke about yesterday, I myself was convinced that they actually happened in hospitals in our area. Indeed, those benefits have been made, so intensive departments are already equipped not only in epidemiological hospitals, but also in the countryside, so that they can address these issues where appropriate. It all turns away from the bill, of course, because I don't want to respond to all the other points here. For example, my colleague Tibor Bana had a problem with the deadline for reporting. These should be indicated by letter, because, of course, they can be dealt with in the same proposals. Once again, the government must have the right to deviate from the legal deadlines and frameworks in the face of an emergency and to address this issue. It is only because of its importance that I would like to return to that part of the matter, Mr Róbert Dudás, who also mentioned that the emergency was announced late. For example, regarding the closure of schools and other measures, I report that we took these measures 10-20 days earlier than the Austrians or the Italians. Regarding tests: Sweden is not tested, so everyone chooses different ways. I believe that we have the best practices in mind and follow them. Once again, we need to give the government some room for manoeuvre. And the other is that there is such a thing as a conditional deadline in law, and this is the end of an emergency, which otherwise is an objective thing about when the epidemic is over. Who can see the future? Who knows when it'll expire? And then I'd turn to the subject that's always been raised to vote electronically. Madam Minister said, I repeat, in the Fundamental Law, that Parliament will decide with the vote of the Members present. Personal presence required [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State! It's an emergency!]] until the Fundamental Law is changed. Then you have to make a decision. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the method of electronic voting and its security. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What is your safety? What kind of security are you talking about?]] Don't you think this could be accomplished and resolved in a two-day conflict? And the other is that earlier, when it came to this, I think you considered it an important guarantee rule for Members to be present and not for these votes to take place in any other form. So I could continue these lines, but it is clear that we will be able to continue this during the Commission's debates and in-depth debate. [[18.10]] I ask you to read the bill, look at the Fundamental Law, read the house rules, and then it is much easier to argue with each other on the same basis, and we can discuss things on the basis of the same facts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-24-140	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the general debate was concluded. Dear Parliament, It follows that the 2019 CVII on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them will follow. General debate on the draft law relating to the entry into force of law and amending it for harmonisation purposes until closure. The government referral is T/9677. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me to recall, before presenting the content of the bill, the milestones to date for the reregulation of civil society services, which is an indisputable result of the government. The law on public service officials adopted in 2011 settled the status of three distinct groups of public service workers. In the context of the establishment of a modern and efficient management system, the government has set itself the objective of re-regulation of the status of these officials, i.e. those working in central and territorial government administration, those working in municipal administration and those working in organisations with so-called autonomous status, and the financial recognition of their service. The government considered the consolidation of the status of persons employed by the government to be an important objective, resulting in a new code of central and regional government administration at the end of 2018: the CXXV of 2018 on government administration. Law. As the next stage of the regulatory process initiated, the 2019 CVII on special status and the status of employees was established at the end of 2019, building on the results of the Government Administration Act. Law, or in short, the Küt. which, using the autonomous concept used by the new law, has introduced legislation governing the status of bodies with special status on a new, conceptually uniform basis. The new law sets out the most important framework for employment, giving room for justified and necessary derogations from the specificities of bodies with special status, in addition to striving for standardisation, thus ensuring the autonomy of bodies with special status. We have now reached the newest milestone, that is to say, the regulation contained in this bill. In this context, it is important to point out that the necessary and justified derogations, which are conceptually compatible with the Küt., can be defined by the Act establishing certain bodies with special status, i.e. the Statuating Law of the body, thus completing the status regime based on the two pillars. The adoption of this bill is essential in order to ensure that from 1 May 2020 Küt employees of bodies with special status. may be continued on the basis of its rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The T/9677 in front of you. Thus, one of the objectives of bill No.1 is the Statuating Laws, as well as other related laws and Küt. to establish consistency between all bodies with special status: the Office of the President of the Republic, the Office of the Constitutional Court, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Hungarian Office for Energy and Public Works, the National Media and Communications Authority, the Economic Competition Authority, the Secretariat of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Secretariat of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, the Equal Method Authority and the Public Procurement Authority, the National Election Office and the Office of the National Memorial Committee. Dear Parliament, The T/9677 in front of you. The second objective of the bill is to strengthen the position of competition authorities in the Member States with a view to better enforcement and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market on 11 December 2018 EU 2019/1. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transposition of the ECN + Directive into domestic law by abridged name. Fair competition in the market is a driving force for the economy, so it is also in our country's interest to protect it. The competition authorities are the guardians of fair market competition. In the European Union, each Member State has a competition authority in addition to the European Commission, the competition authority, which is the main competition authority in cases. These Member States' competition authorities apply national and EU law in parallel. National law may provide national competition authorities with a different approach and toolbox from that of the European Commission. This has so far led to differences in competition law enforcement at Member State level. The fragmentation of competition law enforcement creates different conditions of competition within the borders of the Member States, thereby impairing the efficiency of the single market, i.e. harming the competitiveness of the EU and the Member States. These derogations are to be addressed in the Directive. The abbreviation of the directive refers to the European Competition Network, i.e. the European Competition Network. The European Competition Network is an existing cooperation between Member States' competition authorities in which Member States' competition authorities can exchange best practices, experience and advise Member States' competition authorities on the application of the law. At the same time, ECN's powers have proved insufficient in practice. The directive was born as a result of this recognition. The transposition of this Directive into domestic law is proposed by LVII of 1996 on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restrictions on competition. Act, i.e. amended by the Competition Act. The aim of the Directive is to ensure that all Member States' competition authorities have the same independence guarantees, resources and enforcement and fines powers. The directive largely follows the recommendations of the European Competition Network. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to say that the Hungarian legislation has already provided for the possibility of uniform enforcement as an example. The Competition Act followed to a large extent the recommendations of the European Competition Network and the recommendations and case-law of the European Commission. Thus, the transposition of the ECN + Directive did not require any conceptual changes. However, the directive has provided many opportunities to clarify the powers of the Hungarian competition authority, the Hungarian Competition Authority and to promote more effective enforcement. We've taken advantage of these opportunities. The main changes following the transposition are as follows. In the Competition Act, we established a system of cooperation with other competition authorities in the Member States in accordance with the ECN + Directive. As a result, Member States' competition authorities will now be able to request legal assistance from each other in a very simple system similar to a form. For example, it may be requested by other competition authorities to recover fines or to carry out procedural acts. This measure can be expected to reduce costs and increase enforcement efficiency. In addition, in order to facilitate enforcement, the following amendments should be highlighted in accordance with the ECN + Directive. On the one hand, the on-the-spot research powers of the GVH have been broadened, and the recovery of fines for groups of undertakings will be accelerated by creating an immediate joint and several obligation. On the other hand, in the case of an association of undertakings, a completely new multi-stage obligation system is introduced to ensure the recovery of the fine. It can therefore be seen that the options provided by the Directive are aimed at making offenders more accountable. At the same time, however, the bill also contains positive incentives for legal entities. The purpose of these amendments is to encourage undertakings to detect potential infringements of the GVH. These changes relate mainly to the leniency programme. In exchange for the evidence shared with the GVH, the leniency programme is intended to avoid or reduce the fine. As a result of the transposition, the protection of shared data becomes more precise, with the introduction of a new type of application allowing companies to enter the leniency programme and the systematic handling of leniency applications submitted in parallel with the Commission and the competition authority of the Member States. [[18.20]] In addition to the leniency programme, cooperation will be strengthened elsewhere. For example, by requiring the GVH to consult market participants on commitments accepted under the EU legal basis. Dear House, In all cases, the transposition has chosen an interpretation in accordance with Hungarian case law and constitutional order, thus ensuring that the results achieved by Hungarian case law are respected. The transposition also strikes a balance between strict competition authority action and respect for the rights of legal entities by giving businesses more opportunities to cooperate with the GVH. On the basis of what has been said, it is also clear that, in line with the law on bodies with special status, the bill will establish a uniform approach to regulating the legal status of stakeholders in a satisfactory manner, thus continuing to take steps so far to resolve the situation of civil service workers. I am convinced that the changes brought about by the status consolidation and the ECN + Directive will make the rules of status more coherent, while the enforcement of competition rules will be more effective, thus making a significant contribution to the proper recognition of public sector employees in our country and to the protection of fair competition. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-24-142	One moment, please. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sorry, I'm familiar with the new technique. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us sets out two objectives. On the one hand, it intends to ensure that the Act on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them is Küt. seeks to increase the effectiveness of the procedure and enforcement of the Competition Authority through the amendment of the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition. Ladies and gentlemen, As the proposal shows, the technical amendments to the proposal concern a number of legal acts governing status, which I do not intend to list now. The Kűt. 2. §2 lists all bodies with special status. Mr Secretary of State has also listed it in detail, and I would just like to mention as an example that, among other things, the text of the proposal envisages technical clarifications concerning the status of the MTA, the MMA, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights or the staff of the Presidential Office of the Republic. As proof of the technical nature of the amendments, I would like to mention that the salary and fees due to the Mayor, the mayor of the district and the mayor of the city with county rights will now be quantified, but their rates will not change compared to the previous ones. Legally, all of this is covered by the Government Administration Act 291. It is justified by the repeal of Article 4 of the Act, which makes it essential to separate the provisions on mayor's remuneration from the provisions of the Act. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The intention to amend is not only the Küt. they also seek to strengthen the internal coherence of the law itself. All this is very important for the application of the law, as they facilitate their interpretation through clarification of the provisions of the law. Dear House, The amendment of the rules governing competition law procedures is justified by the transposition into national law of Directive ECN + of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Hungarian legislation currently in force basically complies with the requirements of that directive, so the proposal submitted does not contain provisions which greatly alter the enforcement system. The amendment primarily clarifies or extends the tools available to the NCA for more effective and better enforcement, as well as in the light of the provisions of the ECN + Directive. As a result of the transposition of the Directive, changes in domestic legislation are intended mainly to strengthen enforcement tools, but also to improve cooperation between undertakings subject to the procedure and the Competition Authority and the scope of legal assistance between competition authorities in the Member States. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table is consistent with ensuring the coherence of the domestic legal order and the fulfilment of the legal harmonisation obligation arising from our membership of the EU. In view of what has been said, the proposed bill is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2020-03-24-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-24-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/9677. Indeed, the legislative proposal is much easier than the negotiation of the proposal that we had made before. In principle, the so-called salad law amending 45 laws serves approximately 90% of the total number of problems of coherence, text corrections or harmonisation of laws which are covered by the 2019 CDII Act. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the State in question constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is necessary to transpose a directive of the European Parliament. This Directive has changed, strengthened or imposed additional requirements on Member States on certain competition rules. However, this salad law, I must say, contains some of the rules that I think it has not been elegant to hide in this proposal. One refers to the payment of salaries, which have no problems as long as it concerns the wages, remuneration and the level of remuneration of bodies and their employees with special status, as the 2019 CDII. Law created a new legal position, a new status that can be legally assessed, interpreted and regulated in relation to organisations with special status and its employees, but this rule, for example, includes the determination of the Mayor's remuneration. The municipal law clearly stipulates how the establishment of the municipality must determine the mayor's salary. We just don't understand how these boots got on the table right now, all of a sudden, in this salad law. It is then a natural part of this legislation, after the 2019 CVII. Law 1 requires employees of organisations with special status to naturally include new rules on days of leave and holidays, adapting them to the previously preferred professions and posts to which they belong. This is also perfectly natural in the law, since if such a status has already been created by the legislator, it should be assigned to the people employed in a very similar way and in a similar position. I would like to comment a little more on an important question. Article 6 § 33 of the Competition Act. § 5 of the Competition Act. The text of this is to focus on the issues which best serve the functioning of the relevant market in view of the limited resources of the competition agencies. It is true that there is a reference to this on the European stage and to some extent in the directive, that there are limits to the operation, the size, the number of employees, the time to be devoted to cases, and indeed the global market has brought enormous challenges for competition agencies. It is very difficult to comply with them, and we can also see that in a case, for example, the banking cartels will be investigated for up to a year before they can take effective action and, unfortunately, the infringements will continue in the meantime. But I must say that I think Hungary is a much more specific place in this regard. [[18.30]] We have seen that in the last ten years, capital owners have been extremely reorganized, incredibly powerful monopolistic situations in the past ten years, at least 70 percent of economic life, which not only created new challenges for the Hungarian Competition Authority, but society is increasingly demanding that at least there should be an organisation that can be expected not to be abused by dominant positions, that kind of carteling, whether price cartels or organizational cartels, which can determine, for example, monopolises; for example, in purchasing the tools, food and other life-sustaining tools necessary for citizens' everyday lives, these monopolistic companies should not be able to cooperate or to exercise sovereignty. We must understand that Hungary must live in Hungarian, and I believe that this rule is very not in the interests of Hungarian citizens. Who will decide which cases are those which actually affect the functioning of the relevant market? Isn't the basic objective of the Hungarian Competition Authority to serve citizens, the people, with its activities to prevent monopoly situations, situations that make citizens vulnerable, which are very often in the market economy around the world? I understand that the resources of the Economic Competition Authority are limited. I believe, of course, not in this situation, which we are in because of the corona virus epidemic, but at a time of peace, I believe that the resources of the Economic Competition Authority can be increased both financially and professionally by the government, because there are many professionals who are well trained and able to carry out this task, and the budgetary resources of the Economic Competition Office are so small as to make the work much more efficient than the total budget amount. Unfortunately for me, this means that if I look at the government's ten-year mindset, and if I look at the economic competitive decisions of the last ten years, then I have to say that this is the decision I have to make, what is important for the functioning of the market, it can be a huge abuse, and unfortunately, the Hungarian Competition Authority is the original goal for which it has been created for citizens, I do not think it will be able to keep it. My apologies, but here I take the opportunity to say yes, no or abstention in a personal election, in order to link this subject to our elected constitutional judge today. Our constitutional judge elected today has been president of the Hungarian Competition Authority for ten years, and I must tell you that, whether in dealing with foreign exchange-credit cases or in dealing with other illegal practices affecting the market or affecting the market, the decisions of the Hungarian Competition Authority have served as a Bible to me before 2010. Many times, instead of legislation, economic competition decisions have answered questions that have not been answered by simple interpretation of legislation or even judicial practice. The Hungarian Competition Authority had an amazing authority until 2010, and I believe that over the past ten years, because of its market-distorting impact, the presence of an economic dominant position, the Economic Competition Authority has not dealt with many important issues, but has allowed the creation of a number of conglomerates that have explicitly contradicted the laws of the market, specifically created the monopoly position of certain businesses for the benefit of a united group of companies, and I think that unfortunately his activity has completely dismantled the nimbus which was the Economic Competition Authority. That is why we voted 'no' both on the committee and on the vote, because a great, wonderful institution has become obsessed with the influence of certain economic interest groups. I believe that the government has made this pass to 33. Paragraph 5 as an additional paragraph gives some consideration, or tries to put it in a way that does not give rise to the fact that the organisation, which is a provider of services to the people, can decide for itself whether it examines this or that problem or issue in the market, and that in fact loses the essence of the fact that no one in our country is able to seek positions in the market in an illegal way or in an excessive monopoly situation. That is what I wanted to say on this proposal. I hope that all that this proposal, as a salad law and amendment, fulfills its hope in everyday life, and I hope that we very rarely have to have such heated debates in this House over the next two years, which today is forced to do, unfortunately I feel that the government's initiative or the initiative of the governing parties has led us to very rainy and thunderous ones. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-24-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-24-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We agreed that we wouldn't repeat each other. We've been through a long day. I would like to comment on one detail of this bill, which my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned: we do not quite understand how it came into this law and, in this way, the modification of the salaries of mayors, mayors and mayors of county-rights. After the elections last autumn, 13 October, pro-government politicians and the Prime Minister himself have repeatedly said that they are also cooperating with the opposition mayors and are trying to make decisions in the interests of the Hungarian people, regardless of who won the election in the autumn mayor election, in the municipal elections. Under the current rules, the Mayor is entitled to the monthly salary due to current ministers, the mayor of the county-righted city and the mayors of the metropolitan district are entitled to the same allowance as the respective State Secretarys. This wage is now frozen for the Mayor to HUF 1 296 300 and for the City and District Mayors with county rights to HUF 997 200; we are talking about the amounts in force on 31 December 2018. We could say that this amendment is quite unsportsmanlike, to say that the mayors, which was customary, had their salaries moved with the salaries of state ministers and ministers... we do not understand why this is necessary now. The only thing we think of is the loss of the leadership of several cities with county rights on October 13th, and we see the change between the Mayor and the mayors of the district in Budapest as well. I could say, in a worse way, that this is not a fair decision for the government. We do not understand why this had to be amended in this law. I hope that Mr Secretary of State can give you the right answer. I think if we're gonna say these petty measures badly, Mr. Secretary, let's be honest. I think that when we keep trying to convince voters that you are willing to cooperate, that you will not interfere with the work of the opposition mayors, I think that these non-sportsmanlike measures can support it every day, that what they are saying is quite different, and that what they are doing is quite different. I think that this should be completed, Mr Secretary, and I look forward to wondering why this was necessary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-24-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.40]]
u2020-03-24-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If we agree that we do not engage in repetitions, especially because my fellow Member has analysed them in such a meaningful way, there are still some issues that need to be addressed. This salad law, which has been tabled here, is certainly admirable in how they were able to choose this date when they wanted to regulate it. As a fine copy of this, 44 laws are proposed and will be implemented here. Surprisingly, this is being dealt with here during the period of publishing of an emergency, and I am saying this because, in the meantime, there is no time for economic affairs or economic action. I do not know that this is what you really want to hide with this proposal, in this way without any substantive proposals, although I do know that in the current situation, you can do almost anything about what legislation should be amended and what can be done in the context of regulation governance, and even you would like to step up that. I would like to come back to this a little later, but I would like to mention, first of all, that if such a large number of laws were to be amended, it would be appropriate to add something to what effect this will have on impact assessments. You guys are out of order, you don't make these things, you don't think you need them, while you're making so many laws that affect everything that I think you need to do. What appears here on labour law rules is just joining my fellow Member, and I will not repeat it. I promised that I would give a little attention to the fact that you are failing or at least not following, and I think that, for example, you are keeping track of, in addition to the presentation of such a bill, of the decisions that you, in addition, declare in an action plan and make it part of the regulation's governance, while, or in this context, you are not aware of, how much you can do in terms of job retention programmes. If this law is just to make it look like Parliament has to negotiate something, then I think it is particularly harmful. This is a substitute for a meaningful debate on how to invest in jobs, what legislation is needed in the case of additional earnings, reduced-term employment, from the point of view of labour market services, I think that there are a number of things that, if they were to negotiate not only in their own powers and arrogant ways, that you would arrange for them, then you could have a substantive dispute about this, and then you could receive support from specific measures, while I do not think so. I think what they are doing is a supplementary act in this sense, and in this way we will also judge what has been submitted here. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-24-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I ask my fellow Members that they intend to speak further. (No one's reporting.) I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Deputy Minister, if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2020-03-24-151	Thank you very much. Just two things, one is why you're here in front of this House. From 1 May, we have to apply the Küt. and, of course, we have to make these related rules. As far as the mayor's salary is concerned, the Secretary of State's salaries have been fixed so far. They're actually separated now, but the recording stays. The second is that in the majority of municipalities, there are still pro-government mayors, so this kind of leadership that the government would strike the opposition with this is not real. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-24-152	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, applied for a post- Agenda address:. What would the government do? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-24-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I could add the title of my speech after the agenda by saying that instead of trying to discredit the opposition. There is no doubt that the current situation is a very special situation, and it is indeed very few governments who are fully prepared to deal with and overcome such a situation. But it is also a fact that in all countries, especially where the economy is effective, and there is enough tax forints to develop pre-emptive defence systems, this was expected of our country's government. But it is also a fact that the situation is changing day by day, and the rhetoric of the representatives of the government and the ruling parties is changing day by day. I therefore raise a few thoughts, and I would like to inform the Government of Hungary and the governing parties that no opposition representative should be considered as an enemy, but everyone should also know that we have sworn to the Fundamental Law, we have sworn to the sacrament of the law, and we intend to obey every word of the written law, and we intend to enforce it with the Government in our control powers. But what should the government understand? On the one hand, you should understand that the disease virus is not selective, which is the most important thing that should be understood. Then it should also be understood that those whose work you count on in overcoming must be particularly concerned with priorities, monitoring and giving them everything. The government must acknowledge that it is not the police and soldiers who will overcome the effects of the virus, but the availability of long-distance citizens and medical personnel, as well as the health equipment system. The government must acknowledge that the constant shortage of resources and staff in health will make it difficult to defend itself. You must especially see this because you must not seek and provoke enemies, not contradictions, but rather that any citizen who, by means of his physical strength, soul, knowledge, can help you to overcome this great problem should consider you a partner, even a friend. The government must admit that, as it has abused the two-thirds majority in the last ten years, it has caused at least half of society unacceptable and mistrust. This epidemic could be very good for one thing: for everyone who can make a decision, make peace with it in this country, create respect for one another, perhaps even love and friendship, because without the government encouraging the citizens to do so, and not talking to the people or to fellow politicians like that, the system will be missing just those who need it to get away with it effectively and without much harm. And what the government has to understand is that, after this viral crisis, the economic and existential difficulties of citizens are inaccessible. There is a good chance that we will not go to the 2010 unemployment level, but even to the 1993-94 level when companies were privatized and then shut down and distracted by the masses of Hungarian workers; we have to expect that level. And there is a good chance, after unemployment will be there, too, in Western Europe, where most of our countrymen have gone in the hope of greater income, and if they return, it can be said that fortunately those who do not make the Hungarian unemployment rate worse will be forced to reappear in this market. [[18.50]] So the most important thing that the government has to understand is that there will be no other support for Hungarian citizens who lose their jobs and their existence than the need to ensure the future existence of Hungarian people from budgetary sources and from the wealth and income of the largest oligarchs. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-24-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:, Is the hospital in Marcal prepared for possible mass coronal viral diseases, especially now that the shore of Lake Balaton is full? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-24-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, János Halász Fidesz MEP just told me today, and I quote, the virus could be anywhere, anywhere. If that is true, it is particularly sad that, at national level, protective equipment does not comply with the requirements. We know that from Gyula Kincses, President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. Let us be realistic: the world is not prepared for the production of these devices, so not only in Hungary there are no adequate and quality protective equipment, but there is a general shortage of them. This, of course, does not comfort us or our doctors. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán just told us yesterday that 4 percent of healthcare workers in China and 10 percent in Italy have been infected with coronal virus. These are shocking data. Thus, it is justified to protect our health workers by all means, who have always done superhuman work, especially in recent weeks. What about the Marcal hospital? Doctors and nurses were given surgical masks, but they didn't protect them from the plague. Marcali only had a few FFP2 masks and FFP3 masks with special protection. This is extremely small, while splitting safety glasses and protective capes would be justified. Why is that? Because the virus could be anywhere, anywhere. It is difficult to predict when we will be past the epidemic, but it is likely that the number of diseases will increase in the near future. What about the medical staff? I ask you, when the government has suspended the work of doctors over 65 throughout the country. Besides, there was a shortage of doctors, but now they have to be replaced. And another crucial question is, what about the patients? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also said that today there are a total of 2560 respirators in Hungary. And interestingly, when he was talking about it, I was thinking about the earlier suggestion that I thought was extremely demagogic about how much of these money could have been bought instead of government spending. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I never thought that someday this idea could be a reality. So with a quick head count: in terms of the number of ventilators in Hungary, there is only one piece for roughly 4,000 people. In Marcali, I understand that there are four respirators at the moment, when 35 thousand people live in the district and there are virtually full shores of Lake Balaton, crowds have appeared in the southwest region of Lake Balaton, who may also have to be cared for here. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the hospital in Marcala had previously provided 60,000 people with health care. Then I ask the question: if there is no God around Marcali, the coronal virus epidemic will become a mass, will the four respirators be enough to keep the patients alive? In view of all of this, we ask that the responsible measures be taken as soon as possible, and at the same time I ask my fellow countrymen to take care of each other, to be disciplined, and to pay particular attention to hygiene. And I respectfully ask my fellow countrymen to stay at home for at least a few weeks in the interest of all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-24-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 30 March 2020. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
