u2020-06-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The second extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of its extraordinary session for the period from 29 June to 3 July 2020. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website. Ladies and gentlemen, I am once again fulfilling my sad duty to announce that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. György Bálint obtained a mandate from the Pest County Regional List of the Association of Free Democrats in 1994 and was a member of the Hungarian Parliament until 1998. Under his mandate, he assisted the Committee on Agriculture with his expertise. In addition to his political career, he was a salesman, a candidate of agricultural sciences, a dean of the University of Gardens and Foods, and a head of department for 20 years. During his career, he received countless awards and awards for his social engagement and professional publications. His work was also recognised in 2005 with the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary's Officer Cross, and in 2017 with the Prima Primissima Prize. In 2009 he was elected the honorary citizen of Budapest and in 2019 the agricultural man of the year. He died in the 101st year of his life. János Karakas was a member of the Parliament for three cycles from 1994 to 2006. During the parliamentary elections in 1994 and 98, he obtained his mandate in the 29th single mandate district of the MSZP in Budapest, then in 2002 from the national list of the party. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on European Affairs. In addition to his political career over four decades, he worked as an agricultural specialist, a decorated citizen of Pesterzsébet and a respected actor of local public life. He died in the 71st year of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to our fellow Members with silent standing. [[The people present pay a silent tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, In 2012 the National Assembly condemned the persecution of the Hungarian Central Peasant during the communist dictatorship, and made 29 June, Peter-Pál's Day, the day that was traditionally the beginning of the harvest a memorial day for Hungarian farmers who were ruined at the time of the Kulamation. On this day, we remember the more efficient peasant farmers who were labeled kulas, i.e. exploiters, who had their wealth taken away by these measures, who had their lives broken down and whose family members had suffered a disadvantage in many areas of life. The mission started in the year of the communist takeover. In his speech on August 20, 1948, Mátyás Rákosi proclaimed the more efficient peasants as enemies of the working people. They were regularly checked, initially subject to fines or detention for their so-called transgressions. Later, people who had at least 25 acres of land, maids, agricultural machines, or even commercial shops were officially introduced to the list of culls per village, but if they wanted to acquire someone's belongings, they could easily classify those with smaller estates, grapes, orchards. In 1953, some 70,000 Kulak families were registered nationwide. Farmers declared as kulaks were subject to substantially more taxes and public services, and were pressed and harassed until their assets were offered to the State on their own. Culas and their family members were branded, which not only marked their own lives but also their children's lives. After 1953, corrective measures were taken, and although amnesty decrees were issued for the Culas and the Cula list was abolished, the Stalinist wing of the party leadership continued to incite hatred against them. After the period of violence, the Kádár system sought to reconcile with peasantry and former kulaks, and the cooperatives could not lack the diligence and expertise of former farmers. We all respectfully remember those who have been through these trials. [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Timea Szabó applied for a pre-meeting speech, on behalf of the Dialogue. I give you the floor.
u2020-06-29-1	Ladies and gentlemen, This week, Parliament adopts the budget of Hungary for next year. This gives us an excellent opportunity to see how Viktor Orbán and his government think about the country, the Hungarian people, and how they imagine the future. Unfortunately, from the budget of 2021 it is clear: Viktor Orbán continues to regard Hungary as his own colony; he sees only the possibility of the violent maintenance of his own power, endless theft and humiliation of people in government. [[István Szilárd Németh: Here we go!]] This budget is nothing more than a budget of inhumanity, revenge and corruption, a budget in which nothing matters but the family and friends of Viktor Orbán: Ráhel Orbán, István Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros and the like-haired no-goods. Teachers and kindergarten teachers do not matter, as education is not given a penny more in real terms. Doctors, nurses, and hospital workers don't matter, because health care doesn't get a penny more in real terms. Social workers, caregivers of our sick parents in the nursing home or children's educators in the nursery do not count, as they do not receive any extra support, because they were even sorry for the one-time net benefit of 330,000 HUF. For next year's budget, the Dialogue and other opposition parties have tabled a total of 809 amendments to help those who really need it: half a million people who have lost their jobs, single mothers or even disabled elderly people. We have tabled 809 amendments and none of the 809 amendments themselves have been adopted. According to Viktor Orbán's parties, there are no pieces of the 809 opposition amendment proposals that were worth supporting. However, they supported the Fidesz proposal, which gives the news media an extra 20 billion, so the propaganda MTVA will not receive 77 billion, but HUF 97 billion next year. Only this money could have doubled the wages of virtually all health workers next year. But, honourable Members, Viktor Orbán rather supports the budget for theft, inhumanity and revenge. Revenge, because what you are doing to Budapest and to bleed out the municipalities is pure revenge for the victory of the opposition on 13 October. For the first time in 30 years, the money of Budapest and many rural settlements has been literally stolen, not by Gergely Christmas or by other opposition mayors, but by taking what is due to them from millions of Hungarians. It will be lost, as Viktor Orbán cannot deal with the defeat of the local government in October, so Fidesz-KDNP will use everything to destroy their opponents. First, László Kövér doubled the women, and then, with a noble simplicity, he said that the opposition, thus 3 million Hungarian people, was not part of the Hungarian nation. Then they attacked index.hu because they can't bear the existence of independent press, and if Viktor Orbán can't bear the existence of something [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Independent?]] Then you want to destroy it. It can also be seen from the series of attacks on Gergely Christmas, where Fidesz did not hesitate to publish a photo of the Prime Minister of the Arrow, the Mayor of Budapest and the Co-President of the Dialogue in his place, and after such an attack on the wounds of hundreds of thousands of people, they defend themselves by not knowing that the photo was from Szalasi. I don't know if your ignorance or your inhumanity is greater than yours. But don't worry, fellow Members, this hatred and inhumanity won't last too long, because on Friday it was the one-year anniversary of the Budapest pre-election in which Gergely Christmas became the candidate for Mayor of Budapest. The pre-election proposed by the Dialogue has shown that if the opposition joins forces and puts the decision back in the hands of the people, we can jointly find the candidates who will defeat Viktor Orbán's people. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2022 we will do exactly the same: with full opposition cooperation and pre-election, we will create a team that can replace Viktor Orbán's inhumane and thieving government, and together we will create a country that helps people and is peaceful. Thank you.
u2020-06-29-2	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2020-06-29-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, You forgot to mention, Madam Head of the Group, that you have, figuratively speaking, earned a limp dog prize here in Parliament, because in your more vehement speeches here at the plenary session of Parliament and at committee meetings, you referred to Athina Németh, the fake paramedic in her attacks against the government as well. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] who, according to his story, had a Kamuvideo prepared, and you didn't even consider gathering the courage to stand here or anywhere else and apologize to the Hungarian people for... [[Szabó Timea: Did you apologize for Salashi?]]
u2020-06-29-4	Congresswoman, you just got the floor. Please, control yourself. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-5	...for attacking everyone with this: government, defense medical staff, doctors, nurses, paramedics and everyone else. [[12.20]] You were here extremely vehemently, and then you asked a fellow Member to perhaps say a few words about this and try to save you, honourable Member, but to this day you owe Parliament and the entire Hungarian public a very heavy apology, honourable Member. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Because here at Parliament's meeting he shouted several times the name of this woman, that she was proof that the government's actions were wrong (Szabó Timea intervened). And it turns out it's actually a fake paramedic's kamustoria. [[Szabó Timea: How many people died?]] , brought out in a chamomuvide...
u2020-06-29-6	Congresswoman, ease up, please. [[Szabó Timea: I am completely moderate, Mr President.]] Doesn't look like it. Doesn't look like it. [[Szabó Timea: You're a little nervous...]] Congresswoman, please reduce yourself, because you'll have consistency with what you're doing. [[Szabó Timea: Wow! What?]] For five minutes, you have constantly insulted and insulted the people on the government side: the ministers, the government, the representatives. [[Szabó Timea: What part of it wasn't true?]] The government side tolerated this and listened silently, because according to the rules of democracy it must do so. Now the Secretary of State has the floor, but you don't have it. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Please be quiet, or I will ban you from sitting. (Szabó Timea interrupts.) Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-29-7	Thank you very much again, Mr President. The head of the group does two things during the answer to the question: either she constantly yells in, or she stands up after just one minute and leaves the Chamber. [[Szabó Timea: I'm here now!]] I mean, he's done it more than once. For you, this dialogue, this democracy, it works for you, it's false, it's false, on the one hand, for a fake paramedic. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] on the basis of the false statement, or quite simply going out and making false statements, honourable Member, point by point in relation to the budget. He didn't give me numbers because no number would've confirmed you. (Szabó Timea intervenes. ) Therefore, you just said that there are no additional opportunities in the budget for next year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Do you know how much the budget for education is increasing, which you think is worth nothing (Szabó Timea intervenes) In the next year's budget, from this year to next year? 78, almost 80 billion forints. (Szabó Timea intervenes. ) Do you know how much he's grown since 2010? 783 billion forints. (Szabó Timea intervenes. ) Do you know the value of this growth? Over 54 percent increase. You said there was no surplus in health care (Szabó Timea intervenes.) Next year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There is a surplus of HUF 156 billion in the health budget next year, and if you look at the last few years, you will see that you will find HUF 917 billion, which is a 77 percent increase. Is that what you think nothing is, honourable Member? [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] He doesn't give numbers because, as he did in the case of Németh Athina, he built his argument on untruths, even now. [[Szabó Timea: Is that the answer?]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] He doesn't give numbers because, as he did in the case of Németh Athina, he built his argument on untruths, even now (Szabó Timea: Is that the answer?) He builds it on untruths, and therefore he doesn't say a number, always avoids numbers, always avoids facts (Szabó Timea intervenes.) Because the facts and reality only disturb the liberals, their greatest enemy, that's why they avoid it. But I'll tell you all about it. Next year's budget includes HUF 326 billion more, and since 2010, we have raised the funds available for this purpose by HUF 1159 billion. The framework for cultural activity will also increase by 26 billion in next year's budget, and as we are obviously preparing to protect it [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] the Hungarian economy, Hungarian society from a crisis, so it is important that we spend nearly HUF 41 billion more on social benefits. And do you know how much more we spend, how much more we spend on social benefits than your friends and allies, with whom you will run together? You've just called him into battle, as a representative of the perhaps immeasurable Dialogue, you've called him into battle. [[Bence Tordai, Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Timea Szabó intervene.]] the entire opposition. Do you know how much more we spend on social benefits compared to your allies, what percentage? Only the increase is 139 percent. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Nearly two and a half times. I would be happy to tell you, honourable Member, that you have spent 325 billion, and the budget we have presented contains 776 billion, an increase of HUF 451 billion, honourable Member. This is what the Hungarian people can expect. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] If you believe in a great deal of cooperation, honourable Member. Local governments have been told a great deal of untruths in recent times. In relation to the municipalities, we might have been more curious about the opinion on the sentences of Imre László, but he also avoided it, as he avoided his previous position here, but also for the municipalities. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] A 16-percent surplus will be provided by next year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That's what you've been doing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] as in times of crisis, as in the case of a coronal virus epidemic: prevented the government from acting in the interests of the people [[Szabó Timea: Me personally?]] They tried to discredit Hungary and its defence participants with false news and the production of camuvides outside the parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: 5 minutes 31 seconds!]]
u2020-06-29-8	I now give the floor to the leader of the LMP, László Lóránt Keresztes Group leader. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to bring a different type of issue, a different type of current problem, to the Parliament; I hope that we will have fewer political answers, rather than a professional, political answer to these questions. First of all, I have a question. I don't know who's going to give the answer, maybe Minister Süli. In recent days we have heard disturbing news, Finnish, Norwegian and Swedish authorities have also indicated that although it is not dangerous for human life, it has been shown a higher background radiation than usual, and according to Dutch experts, the sources of this could be civilian facilities in Western Russia, as they thought, but the Russians have refuted it. We know from the news that there are two nuclear power plants doing maintenance work, but the Russians specifically answered this question in a negative way. The government has taken steps to acquire this information, trying to get information beyond the press, what could possibly be behind this? My second question: tomorrow there will be a major event on the Paks enlargement, because the news says that what we have been talking about for a long time is happening, and which has had a very many years of delay before the full authorisation documentation will be submitted. In recent years, we have debated a lot about the issue of Paks enlargement, and we have said that nuclear energy is not cheap, it is not green and it is not safe, and all our fears have been confirmed in recent years. This project is inaccessible, has a huge delay, and it is now visible in recent times that the government cannot really act or does not want to act in connection with Russian political pressure. What we have seen here in recent times is that the government has made a legislative amendment, an amendment to a government decree that clearly favors the Russian party, but we do not see what justified this decision from the point of view of the Hungarian party. The point of the decision is that a certain authorisation procedure would now be launched, and according to the legal environment so far, no grounding earthwork could have been started until the full final permit was issued. The point of the amendment is that three months after the authorisation procedure, the company concerned may submit the authorisation procedure for landworks, which has a three-month permit period, so that basic constructions and earthworks can begin in six months' time, which alone represent a huge project of tens of billions, while the entire project still does not have a permit. This has also caused some debate at the National Atomic Energy Office, and it is clear that there are also technical and economic risks here. This particular economic risk is borne by the Hungarian state company, according to the legislative amendment that has just been implemented. Therefore, if an unwanted situation arises that a permit will be issued, but the previously completed fund does not correspond perfectly, then the economic risks must be borne by the public company; this is completely unacceptable and unjustified, and it has come to light that this may pose technical risks. After all, if there is a delay and these funds or works are not different, then even the Russian party can extort other technical content. This has already been mentioned before the Parliament last week, and the Minister said that we are seeing examples of such a legislative environment, for example, in the case of Finland. However, this does not explain the current domestic amendment, since Finland had such a legal environment, so the contracts were concluded, and Hungary allowed the Russians to do so, and we do not see that to be justified. So instead of making a claim by the Hungarian party to the Russians because of the many years of slippage, we see that, after the slippages, the course will be oiled by this legislative amendment, and they will help the Russian interested party or the Russian party by not seeing how it can be justified from the point of view of the Hungarian side. My specific questions would be as follows. What kind of lot are we talking about here, so what kind of economic risk did they take? Why was that necessary? What was the debate with the National Atomic Energy Agency on the project? And if such an amendment was made at virtually government level, to my knowledge, after an amendment to a government decree, why didn't you bring this question to Parliament in any form? This is so important that the Parliament should have dealt with this issue in any way, in our conviction. My question is that in the context of this decision, if there is an unwanted case of such an economic event, economic damage, who will take responsibility for it. We believe that this goes far beyond the responsibility of a minister, who is responsible for the project, without a declared wallet. We believe that if, after such a legislative amendment, the Hungarian party is harmed, the Hungarian taxpayers will be harmed, so the entire government must take responsibility, not just for a minister, but for the entire government. In this connection, I very much hope that I do not know who will answer from the government's side that we will be given a very effective, exhausting and professional, non-political answer to the questions raised. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-29-10	I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go. [[12.30]]
u2020-06-29-11	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In answer to the first part of the question: With these measurements, we are not yet able to detect the effects of the momentary radiation, which has already been detected in Sweden. At the moment, as we will have proper measurements, this is so low in intensity that it is likely to be derived from a week of aggregate measurements and sample results, we will inform everyone. We have the responsible organisation of this, the National Atomic Energy Office, which issues the communication in this regard, but there is nothing to publish today. Turning to the second part of the question, which we discussed last time, why this amendment was actually necessary, which only gives us a principle option. This does not mean that this is how we will build the nuclear power plant's work pit from now on. As you said, we're going to file a construction permit with the OAH tomorrow. The process of this has begun, since this hundreds of thousands of pages of documentation, which is exactly 283,000 pages, has already begun to be handed over. The handover will be closed by 10:00 tomorrow, until noon, and then the OAH will acknowledge that you have received this documentation from Paks. Following the submission of the dossier, the legislation approved by Brussels will allow us to submit the completed plan on the place of the work pit and its technical content and implementation in three months' time. That means we're gonna have to surround the work pit with a waterproof wall. If this documentation is submitted to the OAH, he has three months to assess whether the work pit is built in the right place compared to the location of the building. This work pit is a major investment, and then we have to move 8 million cubic metres of land. 2517 meters is the gap wall we need to prepare, and within that, we need to strengthen the ground below the work pit. There's never been a dispute with the authorities. We do not want to cement the base plate, we do not want to start the base of the building, but we create an open work pit. We believe that the six months between the permit to set up the main building and the permit to set up the work pit are sufficient, and the National Atomic Energy Office will be able to decide with certainty whether the technical plans are appropriate. All the more so, because in this work, it also employs 100 experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency, who will be objective, since they have no interest in their technical knowledge being devalued by giving a bad opinion. So we think that both the preparation of the current technical plans, the preliminary soil samplings, research drillings, soil explorations, and the plans for the work pit and their monitoring provide a guarantee that we will be able to do this in an appropriate and quality manner. Like I said, we didn't have an argument about opening a work pit with the authorities. Of course, there is always a consultation on whether this amendment is to be tabled. There is a misconception that someone has communicated that we want to do the concreteization of the base plate in this period, but this has never been the case in this case, so that we cannot argue with the authority. The international practice, as I said, is that we have a valid environmental permit and a site permit in Hungary, while Finland does not even have a site permit, only with environmental protection, but has been preparing the place of the work pit for three years. So we have not changed to any practice other than international practice. And there is no Russian interest here, but there are mutual interests, because it is a significant work, and if this work is carried out, it may be possible to correct or reduce the delay that has been suffered if the land works are allowed. The earliest time for this can be about January. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-12	I now give the floor to Ferenc Gyurcsány, head of the DK faction.
u2020-06-29-13	Thank you very much. In the past thirty years, in the history of free Hungary, political power and government have not harmed the Hungarian nation as much as you have. And if that is the case, then the most important national responsibility is the creation and formation of a new, deprived national government. I know that you rise and lie with the concept of the nation, and I understand that, but when the nation's sublime cause becomes a poor instrument of power policy, it is itself the robbery of the nation and fraud. You know perfectly well that a few hundred years of European national thought begins with great national communities realizing that beyond their belonging to a common state, there is something else, something that is not easy to say, that they are French, they are confessions, they are Hungarians, and I will not continue. And in its natural nature, of course, there are many others. Those who refuse to accept that the nation is primarily a consensual force, who does not seek a staple in this, but cuts it with a sword, do not live it, but sell its nation. And that's what you're doing, even if you're making terrible efforts to hide all this. But the common national idea is not the same as right-wing nationalism. You're nationalists, not patriots. The national idea is not equal to keeping alive and celebrating one or more of our tragic, otherwise controversial, and controversial right-wing interpretations of our national history. Not even because all those who respect the nation know that there are many kinds of national ideas. It's only natural. I am not saying that there is no place for the kind of right-wing conservative national thought in the common concept of the nation that you represent, but I am saying that you are questioning that we might think otherwise. And anyone who questions this does not want to keep us together, because it is the most important part of the nation, but rather the opposite. Of course, you can say that these left-wingers speak, and especially the Gyurcsány, who denied his fellow nations across the border, but I'll tell you one more thing. The common national idea is not the same as the right to vote for citizens of Hungarian nationality living across the border in the territory of another state. Even if you say so, please. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] And while we're at it, let's go further. Hungary was successful as a state, much later as a nation, when it was able to belong to the European cause and to the European idea. We started at Rome. Because, of course, the nation is our common legacy, but the majority of the nation's cause is not in the past if we are talking about the present, but in the future. In fact, you are deceiving and betraying the common cause of the nation when you face the idea of a common European idea in all your important political and ideals. 1848 is born in the spirit of European thought, even 1956. And you guys have been killing this common European idea ever since 2010, with premeditated intent, I think, in a criminal network. I would like to say to those in this part of the horseshoe that they dare to make a new, inclusive, joint national policy, integrating the national ideas of others, and to contribute in their own way to end this historic national fraud, this terrible betrayal; that what we had was the most sacred and sublime common cause is being desecrated daily. And today, this is a more insufferable, lying country than we all hoped for when you started to govern in 2010 or much earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[12.40]]
u2020-06-29-14	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2020-06-29-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, With your permission, the definition of conservative and national policy would not be left to you. I'm not saying that we wouldn't trust you in the first place. We wouldn't trust you in the first place. And if you were serious about it, perhaps because of some kind of remorse, to think about national politics, I would remind you that if you had meant it before, you wouldn't have hit the Hungarians across the border. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Nana! Turning to the president, Mr. President, here...]] It's not a coincidence that you keep bringing this up, it's not a coincidence. I would feel guilty too if I had done what you have done, not on one occasion, but on a number of occasions. If you were serious about strengthening the nation, you wouldn't have been shot at by people who think differently, who protest peacefully. If you were serious about national policy, you would not be campaigning constantly to give Brussels greater rights, stronger powers at the expense of national rights; you would not be campaigning to lose powers in a number of key areas. Now you have expressed criticism in a number of areas, so allow me to do so in the last plenary week, but we are still in a crisis. You had a sentence earlier in a debate, which you lied about, by the way. You said you had to watch what you do on the government. You may be familiar with this idea because you said it, beyond the mountain of lies, but it was said here in Autumn, and that is the only sentence we can agree on. And now we are in a crisis, and this is not the first, because you have had the opportunity to deal with such a crisis. And in the midst of all these difficulties, we have the advantage of comparing two kinds of policies. Your crisis-management stunt was to destroy an economy. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] And now you're going to hold the government accountable. We also need to add that crisis signals were displayed before 2008, from 2006. You often refer to social groups here, you seem sensitive, but where was the social sensitivity when the banks were saved and not the people in trouble? Where were their social sensibilities when they were not protecting jobs but letting them go? It also became a 12-percent unemployment rate. Where were their social sensibilities when they did not raise pensions, but took away a month? Where were their sensitivities when they did not defend Hungarian property, but continued to privatization? I could continue the line for a long time. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Gergely Arató keep interrupting.]] I bring these up because they are constantly referred to and referred to by people and groups in distress; and, by the way, the words of Zsuzsa Ferge, who worked for you, who said that during your crisis management Hungary was almost the only state that, I quote, did not cross a matchstick in order for something to happen to the obvious and well-known losers of the crisis. All of this, translated into numbers, means that 3 million people lived below the poverty line at your time, not us, but Eurostat. And just as the Hungarians couldn't count on you then, they couldn't have done it in the last few weeks. They were quite opposed to anything they could calmly support in order to protect themselves against the epidemic, and they joined the fake news industry. Perhaps at the meeting before last week, Congresswoman Vada asked what we were thinking. Well, look at their own videos that said there was no ventilator. It's the past... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Mine? Don't lie to me.]] They even spent the last weekend attacking Müller Cecília, who proved 100 times as much preparedness as any DK politician, or I could say DK politicians combined. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] And if that is not enough, then on top of that, they are campaigning to allow the Hungarian government to decide on fewer EU funds, so that the country has less EU funds. [[Gergely Arató: Less for the government, Lőrinc Mészáros...]] Well, Mr. Group Leader, we see that you have resumed a great operation: you have re-launched the big red bowling ball, which is killing the opposition puppets in a series. Now, even though the left parties are being entangled, even though they unite with the once excommunicated Jobbik, [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Nothing's changed since your ballad, but nothing's changed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] You are more interested in power than your country, and the latter would be sacrificed at any time for the former. So, if it's up to us, we're not gonna let that happen, but from the looks of it, the voters aren't either. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-16	Mr Zsolt Molnár, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2020-06-29-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am very confident that pro-government representatives in this Chamber, here in the Chamber of Felsőháza, will only listen to that speech and the debate about Lanchid with a strong sense of shame. The Chain Bridge cannot and will not be in opposition, but when you speak of national unity and national symbols, you are desecrating the era of Hungarian history when the greats of the Reform Age are desecrating [[Noise.]] much has been done with their own wealth to make this bridge stand, which is more than a bridge of Budapest, a symbol of the nation. However, you want to tear this symbol apart, tear it down on the nation by punishing the capitals with petty political interests; you are playing a game that speaks of nothing but the concreteization of the power of Fidesz. However, this policy will lead to the fact that you will soon be in opposition. What would the members of the Bridge Association think in this debate, what would István Széchenyi think, or what would György Sina or György Andrássy think of the policy that you are pursuing? There is money for everything in this country, there is money for luxurious fireworks in this country, but the Lanchid, the symbol of the nation, presenting the unity of the nation, lacks a fraction of 8 billion forints of a stadium, a handball hall, a fraction of the wasted public money, which, let us not forget, does not concern the government, but the Hungarian taxpayers. Fireworks, stadiums, small trains, no Chain Bridge. I think that at this point there must be a sense of shame in your heart, in your soul, even if you do not say so. But the most beautiful moment of your communication was when they said that if there hadn't been a change of mayor last fall, this Chain Bridge would have been ready. I expect when you will say in your reply, Mr Secretary, that, in fact, in the time of Tarlós Lanchíd, in 2016, it was renewed, let us say, because you lie on this issue as well. And here I would like to say with respect that every government and every authority is judged by the symbol of the nation, the symbols of the nation and the great ages of our history. You are also using this issue for nothing but party policy purposes. They want to punish the metropolitans for making a different decision. This is unacceptable, and I am very confident that they will turn back on this road at the last minute. A battle like this in a chain bridge cannot be a winner but a loser, and that will be the whole nation. The whole nation will be judged as being unable to reach a compromise on such an important issue, and they want to prove only by reason of raw power interests that the municipalities do not have room for manoeuvre, and that Gergely Christmas or Kata Tüttő will not be right when they say that we are going to renew this bridge. We will renew this bridge, and not István Tarlós, but this bridge will be restored under the leadership of the current city leadership. I ask you to stop digging this trench, stop sharing the nation again; stop digging another trench between Hungarian and Hungarian, between Budapest and not Budapest, between the border and across the border. This policy is not going anywhere! This is not for the unity of the nation, but for the sharing of the nation. We Socialists continue to work for the Hungarian people, for our common cause, the Chain Bridge; we ask the metropolitan people what they think about this issue, that they want rockets, a magnificent fireworks with the spending of loud billions, or a decent Lanchid, which would show that the Hungarian nation is in unity, and that we look after our historical past, our common historical past. [[12.50]] We work for the people, for our common cause, and you work for the Fidesz party. Please stop tearing this nation apart and return to the road when it comes to the 19th century. At the beginning of the century, István Széchenyi launched this nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-06-29-18	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2020-06-29-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Congressman mentioned a sense of shame, and I did have a sense of shame. I thought of the saying that says there are five elements in the world: earth, air, fire and water, and the fifth is deaf talk. Well, Congressman, you were the fifth element today, but not in a positive context, but in a negative context, because what you said simply does not stand the test of reality. The numbers that speak for themselves are quite clear, but if you will allow me to say this once again, that if you do not accept these facts, at least for the sake of the parliamentary record, they will remain for posterity. On the one hand, for the government, the local government sector is very, very important regardless of election results or party sympathy. You can also see the numerical signs of this in the Budget Act: last year there was HUF 739 billion in funding for municipalities, and this year there is HUF 858 billion on the same line. So it's not hard to compare, it's 16 percent plus. There is an increase in general operating aid, an increase in support in relation to public education tasks, operating aid in connection with social and child protection tasks, an increase in operating aid for children's meals, and an increase in operating aid for cultural activities carried out by local authorities. Budapest occupies a prestigious place, we think of Budapest as the nation's capital and as the home of Budapesters, so we can say that if you look at the numbers and developments in the last ten years, it is quite clear that Budapest was the largest net beneficiary of government policy. On the one hand, debt consolidation, if you look at it, took over 375 billion forints of debt from the capital, on the one hand, from the Town Hall itself, the districts and the country alone from a transport company, BKV. This is 26 percent of the debt transfer, while the Budapest-Hungary ratio is 17 percent in proportion to the population. If you look at the development of business tax revenues, while in 2010 there was HUF 85 billion in business tax revenue in the capital, we are talking about HUF 174 billion. If you look at the capital's own budget, so the Metropolitan Assembly has adopted its own budget, you look at the 2019 and 2020 figures, and you add the numbers that you own in the metropolitan districts, then you see that in 2019, before the municipal elections, the capital and the districts together account for HUF 983 billion in revenue, and in 2020 this figure is HUF 1049 billion. In the case of the capital city, Gergely Christmas itself says that last year the revenues were HUF 386 billion, and this year it is HUF 415 billion. It's March, so it's early this year. What are we talking about, Congressman? You're simply not telling the truth. In addition, we only look at the developments: community transport received HUF 1200 billion in support, HUF 2100 billion in construction and green land development, and there is a total of HUF 4200 billion in other developments in Budapest. We are very happy about this, and we understand that you are not happy about this, but the facts remain facts. About the Lanchid case, the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge is important. That's why the government decided earlier, before the municipal elections, to support this commitment of the capital, we just don't understand why they're not doing anything, why nothing is happening. When we see these figures again, that the capital account has HUF 94 billion in the commercial bank account, and they have HUF 180 billion in sovereign debt, this is HUF 274 billion in total. This is the money that the capital now has at its disposal, while the complete renovation, I am not only talking about the Chain Bridge, but also directly including the Tunnel, that is 44 billion forints. There's six times the money, six times the money needed for the renovation, in the capital account. So not money and not government support, but political will and talent. So if you have an influence on things, I would like to ask you to lobby the City Hall so that the people there can finally do their job, because that is what Budapest people expect. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-20	It is now time for Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, on behalf of Jobbik. I give you the floor.
u2020-06-29-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What happens again at Lake Balaton, with Lake Balaton? We can ask that question. In recent years, in recent years, we have become accustomed to camping development on the shore of Lake Balaton, investments, real estate dogs that may not be good for Lake Balaton. Why do I say that? Well, it's obvious that apartment houses are rising on the shore of Lake Balaton, and there's not one case of targeted privateization on some properties. Not so long ago, just a few weeks ago, Balaton Boat Company. I have spoken here in Parliament because of its reorganisation plan, because Balaton mayors and civil society organisations have also protested very vividly against this reorganisation plan, but you have decided to double-cross it with 75 percent ownership. They're fooling this company, and so the sailing ports in Balaton can also go to Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz, because we can see that this is the goal. Now, however, there is another case, a case that beats the guarantee of both civil society organisations and professional organisations and mayors, which, by the way, is the case of the installation of the immediate environment of the weather station. This has been going on for many years now. I remember the morning of March 13, 2016, when I received the call as deputy mayor to cut down two trees near the weather station. Why is that important? These were two protected trees on a small, small plot of handkerchiefs, which, by the way, had a beautiful panorama on the shore of Lake Balaton. So what happened? They've issued a building permit for a family house. These were the two trees that could have prevented a construction permit from being issued there. But it wasn't important to you. The tree was cut down and the building permit was issued. Meanwhile, this family house wasn't built, much worse things happened, and we made it to this day. They just gave a building permit to a five-storey condominium the other day. Why is this important there, besides the Siofok observatory? I repeat, more than 60 years old: the professionals work with 60 years of time. We have the environment to measure the wind, the weather conditions that have changed in the context of climate change. If there's a five-story condominium built in there, these sequences will change. The professional organizations and Ákos Horváth himself, head of the observatory, have repeatedly said that this environment cannot be changed. So we have come to the essence of my speech: what is more important to you? Is it human life, the accuracy of storm signals, or is it that this tiny plot is cut out of Lake Balaton, so this site doesn't get a percentage of the built-in that changes the accuracy of the storm signals? And you can see the process. By the way, last July you adopted a government decree, which came into force, which says that no new construction can be built within 60 metres of the weather station. It is June 2020, yet the building permit is on the table of the builder, the contractor, because it is also included in the justification that the builder acquired this right before the government decree was published. They're trying to pull up this planned condominium 20 feet away. Where's the 60 meters and the 13 meters? ! You must now make a decision on a matter in which only you can prevent this condominium from being built, because it is a nation-class matter that the accuracy of the storm signal does not change. Well, we know very well who live in the vicinity of Lake Balaton when the Balaton storm comes from one moment to the next. If professionals cannot properly estimate this, they are indeed risking human lives. So I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State: what's more important to you: human life, safety of tourism, or the fact that the last, one of the last, otherwise pocket-sized Balaton land is being played for your friends? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-29-22	Once again, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. [[13.00]]
u2020-06-29-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have talked on several occasions about the development of Lake Balaton and its region, and each time we have said that the government is committed to maintaining the values of Lake Balaton as a natural medium, and we think that the people living there have the same right to a good life as those living in other parts of the country. So we need to pursue a policy that, in addition to protecting our natural values, and this must be at the top of the priority list, those living there should benefit from the economic results that have a positive impact on their quality of life. If you don't mind, I'd like to start with the first round. On the one hand, the proportion of bathing areas and the water quality associated with bathing sites tell us a lot about how the government thinks about Budapest. Here, the proportion of excellent bathing sites increased from 67 percent in 2008 to 98 percent. We've discussed the situation with the reeds several times. Here I can tell you that every time, every time, and every time, there is illegal damage to nature, the authorities will act harshly. This was also the case of Balatonakali, mentioned earlier. Protecting and improving the water quality of the lake is a key project of the Water Management Board. I'd like to bring you another piece of data on nature protection. I could bring you a lot of indicators, but I'm only bringing you one or two examples. In the settlements belonging to the region, the forest area also increased from 85 thousand hectares to 90 thousand hectares until 2018. We believe that these are important results and that they show what kind of government policy we are pursuing. In addition, tourism to the Balaton region has also increased, in 2019 3.2 million people have already been exceeded, and there are more people planning to travel to Lake Balaton for several days. I believe that this is valuable to all Hungarians, but it is especially valuable to those from Balaton tourism. Moreover, in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, it is particularly important that domestic traffic is decisive in this respect. Transport development programmes have also been launched. The development of motorways and railway lines along the entire southern coast shows that the government is committed to protecting the inhabitants of Lake Balaton and the development of settlements near Lake Balaton. You mentioned another case, the matter of the ports. I would also like to inform you of a misunderstanding. Ports which carry out public passenger transport will now be transferred to the property and property management of the local authorities concerned. So what you said, there's no mention of it at all. You mentioned one particular issue, the case of the Siófok weather station. This is not only a 2016 story, but also an earlier official procedure in that area. So far, the courts have always given the authorities the truth when a judicial phase took place. It is undoubtedly true that, at the moment, the first instance authority has issued a building permit. This authorisation has been issued in accordance with the legislation. The associated administrative procedure is ongoing, whichever of the parties concerned may initiate judicial review. I would suggest that we consider this question a professional, not a political issue. We believe that the authorities must do their job in accordance with the legislation in force at all times. No life or health-threatening activity has been carried out, and it will not, according to our current knowledge, take place. I would like to ask you not to cause any unnecessary panic in this context, and although good practice is beginning to develop in Jobbik over the last few months, but do not continue to produce false news and to transmit it to the public. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Zoltán Balczó applauds.]]
u2020-06-29-24	On behalf of the KDNP, Mr István Hollik will speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last four months, we have demonstrated that the global crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic can only be resolved within the national framework. Hungary should be proud of itself, because this crisis has been successfully completed. Successful defence was basically based on three pillars: the government's rapid actions, reaction, the preparedness of our epidemiological experts, and the government's taking of measures with which the vast majority of people have agreed and, for this very reason, followed. The Hungarians understood that the crisis caused by the corona virus can only be overcome jointly by national cooperation and national unity. We are now past the first wave, but since the threat has not passed, it is important that the government can seek the opinion of Hungarian citizens as widely as possible, from the start-up of the economy to the protection measures in the case of the epidemic. This is the purpose of the national consultation, which has been used by the Fidesz-KDNP administration on a number of occasions so far. The essence of the consultation is to give guidance to the government on crucial issues of great importance, so that it can act according to the will of the majority. However, we can see that not everyone likes this. The left, which has withdrawn itself from the fight against the virus and has only been busy producing its own lies and shooting camuvides, is attacking the national consultation this time. At the moment of the publication of the national consultation, all left-wing parties, from Ferenc Gyurcsány to the Ballik, faced the national consultation in their statements and speeches. But they didn't stop here. Of course, it could be said that a left-wing attack on national consultation is only part of the daily party political battles, but I think it is much more serious than that. After all, when you, my honourable left-wing colleagues, are attacking the consultation, you are ultimately always turning against the Hungarian people. Let us recall that in a national consultation, the Hungarian people stood up for the reduction of the rent. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Clown! You tell me.]] You are not on the side of the Hungarian people, but on the side of the multinational companies. When the government asked people in another consultation about how to give further support to families, you did not support the families. Or just when, in another consultation in 2017, the Hungarian people made it clear that they did not ask for the compulsory quota and illegal immigration, you did not join the Hungarian people, but supported their pro-immigration fellow politicians in Brussels. But it seems that they were still able to step up, because Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy went so far as to encourage illegal Hungarians not to fill out the consultation sheets. But it doesn't seem like it's enough. This weekend, a recording of a clearly, ever-knowingly left-wing activist taking the national consultation out of another's mailbox and stealing it was released. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] So left-wing parties go so far as to now encourage their activists to steal national consultations from other people's mailboxes. Are you Democrats like that? Are they so afraid of the Hungarian people's opinion? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] So, in summary, it can be said that the left has come to the point that it now produces not only Lajos Korózs' left-wing chauvides, but also steals the national consultation sheets from other people's mailboxes, so that they can silence the Hungarian people so that they can express their views on immigration, the protection against the epidemic, the economic sovereignty of the Hungarian economy, Hungary and the second Soros plan, which is indebted to our grandchildren. It is clear, therefore, that they are not on the side of the Hungarian people. Of course, this is nothing new in left-wing politics. You didn't ask the Hungarian people when you were in the government and raised the rent or when foreign currency loans were being released to the country or when you were about to introduce a visitation fee and tuition fees. So that's how it is. While everyone is working to get Hungary out of the crisis caused by the corona virus as soon as possible, the left continues to commit sabotage to gain power. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP continues to stand by our democratic values and asks everyone to fill in and send back the national consultation sheets despite the obstacle to the left. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.10]]
u2020-06-29-26	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-06-29-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament,
u2020-06-29-28	Tamás Schanda's Secretary of State, please turn on his computer. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As opposed to the left, which never listened to people, even confessed to lying to them, we ask people's opinions about decisions. The government considers continuous and regular dialogue with Hungarian people to be of particular importance, so we have been using the possibility of consultation regularly since the change of government in 2010. In total, eight times since 2010, the Government has requested the opinion of voters in the form of a national consultation. The national consultation is therefore a well-established tool for Hungarian people to decide on important issues that determine their own lives. The left, we know that, it's not the first time he's attacked the consultation. They want to prevent Hungarians from expressing their views on the most important issues between two elections. There is, of course, some kind of strange charm when it is done by those who, by the way, constantly refer to democracy. Let us not forget, too, honourable Member, that when left-wing parties attack the consultation, they are actually also attacking the clash against the epidemic. Honourable Congressman, Once again, we have launched a national consultation, and we are now asking the Hungarian people about the coronal virus and about the measures to restart the economy. By completing this questionnaire, people can express their views on issues that fundamentally determine the future of Hungary, such as the protection against the Crown Virus, measures to restart the economy, or, as you pointed out, George Soros's latest plan on European eternal bonds. Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, we are not building a society based on aid, but on work. Jobs must therefore be protected, and the instruments of this consultation are also discussed. The questionnaire's questions concerning the economy include the contribution of banks and multinationals to the cost of protection during the fight against the epidemic and the need to encourage the purchase of domestic products and services, to promote domestic tourism and to maintain employment protection programmes with the end of the epidemic. Honourable Congressman, Our aim is to strengthen the Hungarian economy as soon as possible. The Hungarian economy has been able to strengthen so far because we have consistently enforced national interests in economic policy, regained our economic sovereignty, regained strategic companies squandered by the left and played into the hands of foreigners, and defended the interests of Hungarian companies. Let us remember that during the governance of Gyurcsány and the Left, he pursued a policy which was just the opposite. More than two thirds of the nation's strategically-preserved companies have played private hands, foreign hands, the energy sector, large public companies, banks and utilities. For this reason, these companies could have skyrocketed the rent, because most of the rent paid by Hungarian people went abroad as an extra profit. We must not let that happen again. Therefore, we cannot allow foreign companies to acquire ownership of these strategic Hungarian companies with bad intentions, taking advantage of the crisis. Otherwise, this is not only an economic issue but also an issue of sovereignty that goes beyond it. Honourable Congressman, National consultations are about how the government outlines a vision that is consistent with the Hungarian people's ideas and can take action in the best interests of as many people as possible. The responses to the new national consultation can therefore be returned by mid-August. By closing the first phase of the epidemic, we have gained some time, and this is worth using to create the points of agreement that will be needed in the next period to make the right decisions. This is what the national consultation is about, asking the opinion of the Hungarian people. We are therefore asking and encouraging everyone to give their views on important issues affecting the country's future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-30	I now give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, on behalf of Fidesz, as the last in the line of speeches before the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The emergency has come to an end and for the first time in the history of Hungary, the extraordinary legal order ordered for the whole country. The first phase of defence was completed, Hungary was successfully defending itself; it was more successful than the countless states of Western Europe, and the extraordinary legal order was 98 days shorter than most of Europe's countries. Defensive could have been successful because a national unity was established, right, without the left. We have sought to achieve political agreement at least in the epidemic situation, but we have to acknowledge that the left is not a partner in this. They were sexually assaulting those involved in the defense, constantly working to exterminate the country. The left was only a barrier to defense, an unscrupulous attack on the national chief of medicine, and even tried to terrify me. They could afford a fake movie. In the video presented by Lajos Korózs, they tried to discredit the government in a lie without blinking, and now, when they're caught, they won't take responsibility for it. The opposition could not be expected, either before or during the epidemic or after the outbreak. In the period of health protection, however, the Hungarians were united, disciplined, and we were able to cooperate well. Now it's time for a period of economic protection. This year's economic performance in the labour market has been seriously affected by the complete shutdown of the exceptional period of the protection against the virus. The forecasts are very different today, from negative 7 percent to plus 2-3 percent for economic growth. The Hungarian economy has also suffered an epidemiological crisis, but there is a good chance that we can achieve one of the most stable results in Europe. Only three Western European countries spend more than Hungary on economic protection measures: Germany, Italy and Sweden. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mihály Varga Minister for Economic Affairs Mr President, Mr President, he announced that on 24 June the operational core of economic defence was established, the primary aim of which was to keep the Hungarian economy on the growth path. It therefore identifies and eliminates the administrative rules and burdens that control the economy. Significant steps have also been taken to protect jobs. With economic measures, nearly 460 000 jobs have already been protected, 806 companies have already indicated to the government that they would invest to reduce the negative economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic, with a total value of HUF 376 billion worth 750 million. The economic action plan helps over 1.2 million people. In health care, the wages of nurses are increased by 72 percent in this cycle, and so far they have not increased in any parliamentary term to a similar extent. Gross HUF 500,000 is also a significant source of funding for employees. Our goal is to keep the doctors' wages rising. Hungary has therefore successfully completed the first phase of protection against the coronal virus epidemic, which is due, among other things, to doctors and workers. Ladies and gentlemen, Lately, news about the second wave of the corona virus has become the focus of attention. According to doctors and epidemiological experts, alertness should be maintained due to the emergence of a second wave of the epidemic. People's opinions are particularly important now, since experts agree that anti-epidemic measures that have high social support are effective. Despite any left-wing attack, we strongly urge everyone to participate in the national consultation. [[13.20]] A successful defence is based on national cooperation, so I quote István Széchenyi, who said: "Everything is difficult for one; nothing is impossible for many. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-32	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. I give you the floor, please.
u2020-06-29-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The House will certainly be meeting for the last time this week, and if that is the case, it is worth a brief review of the months left behind; it is also because we have had a semester of trying people, countries and the world. The last year was closed with the Hungarian economy growing the most in Europe in the last quarter, and everyone in the government was thinking at least about how to move it forward. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Zoltán Magyar: Stop lying!]] the chariot of the Hungarian economy, how to boost the chariot of the Hungarian economy. Then the virus came, and it hit Hungary hard, and we found ourselves in a situation that we could not foresee or prepare for. The success of the defense was that he was prepared for health care, that he was able to make early decisions, and that he was the citizen's partner in complying with them. We have done this many times, but we would like to thank you once again: thank you to the professionals fighting in the front line, to millions of families following the rules and to everyone who has added humility, hope and action to the success of the defense. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Thank you for that. Unpleasant border lock, neurotic digital education, a thousand times picked up masks, missed encounters were many things, but easy not. However, individual commitments have resulted in a partnership that we can draw strength from in the coming months and in the coming years, such as economic struggles. But there is one more question in the air: what did the left give us during the crisis? They couldn't help, but at least they did a lot of damage, above all by installing a fake news machine of unprecedented size. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And the premium model of this was the fake rescue woman's starring kamuvideo. If you think it was your only false report, you're wrong; you don't have to look too hard to get the baddest ones. They lied and dictatorshipd about the Crown Virus Act. This is what they did to the Hungarian electorate, and they did to abroad. That's why even CNN could take over the ugliest bullshit. They lied about there being no ventilator, and I'm looking at the Gyurcsány party. They lied to the German public about there being no protective equipment in the hospitals, and now I'm looking at the out-of-town LMP congressmen. They lied about their graduations, and they scared me with the terror of two thousand infectious goons. Isn't that right, honourable representatives of dialogue? Yeah, that's right. It's hard to decide which is what these days, and they've been running the fake news generator, sneaking into the hospital, and making visitors' equipment medical. The hospital in question has been waiting for an apology ever since. Official statistics and facts couldn't be safe either, because they were lurking about death data. In this regard, many would expect an apology from Congresswoman Szabó Timea. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame!]] But the deepest point was when an unfortunate woman was used to fill the world with nine out of ten patients sent home in Hungary. Before you mumble that there is nothing to see here, because the cousin of Lajos Korózs' daughter-in-law may have made a mistake, let us note here that the false news has been run by a large part of the Hungarian press, but also NBC, Euronews and Financial Times. So there was a network of lies at the expense of the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, Before you, there was a great opportunity to prove that you are no longer sitting in parties that are going at intervals against your own country. They could have proved themselves, but they didn't. We stand now that it is quite clear that you cannot be counted on either in trouble or in building together or in thinking together. However, the government can be relied upon by everyone who believes that there is something to be proud of in this country; also by the way, those who, in the last election or earlier, did not honor the parties of government with their trust. I can tell you one thing at the end: left-wing parties cannot bring so many straws of lies into the nest of hunger for power that we do not love our country more; that if they come with a hundred lies, we will fix it a thousand times, and we will have at least ten thousand reasons to stand up for Hungary again. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-34	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-06-29-35	Dear Parliament, He applied for a speech after today's agenda: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varju DK; Z. Carpathian Daniel, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik. [[Intercoms: Laszlo! Laszlo Varju!]] Laszlo Varju, I suppose.
u2020-06-29-36	Dear Parliament, I declare that the resolution house rule is 3. § 2 and Art. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Section 3, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party elected Mr István Simicskó as leader of the group from 15 July. I thank Mr. Péter Harrach for his work so far. (Applause) I would like to inform you that István Simicskó has resigned from his duties as notary today. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to wish Mr.István Simicskó, Head of the Group, effective work on his mandate, good luck and good health. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear House, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the appointment of the new Vice-President of the National Bank of Hungary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2020-06-29-37	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Articles 9 (four) (c) and 41 (three) of the Fundamental Law and CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Article 11 On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Mr Barnabas Virág as Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank for a period of six years with effect from 14 June 2020. Budapest, 10 June 2020 Sincerely: President János Áder
u2020-06-29-38	Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate Mr Virág Barnabas and wish him good luck with his work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of Parliament, has received a motion to suspend his immunity 407. Bpk. 61.162/2020/2. on a private charge of defamation by the Central District Court of Pesti. I have issued the motion to the immunity committee for examination, and I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted a proposal for a decision on the matter of Congresswoman. Thus, on the agenda, the issue of the suspension of immunity will be decided on today's sitting. The agenda for today's extraordinary meeting is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President for the duration of the meeting. As button-press votes also take place during the adoption of the agenda, there will be a presence check before it is possible to verify the functionality of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present: 162; away: 37.]] If everyone's computer is working, we can continue our work. The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the amendment of certain laws for administrative and economic recovery purposes, as well as certain provisions concerning the management of assets T/1175. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate will take place on 2 July 2020, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on 3 July 2020. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. [[13.30]] So now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept the T/1175. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 118 votes in favour, 42 against and 6 abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 16.30 a.m. today. In view of the fact that, as decided, the discussion and the vote will take place at the next meeting, the agenda will be supplemented when the agenda for the Wednesday meeting is adopted. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, Head of Group, initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, that the Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in connection with Olympic annuities T/11085. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Mr Fraction Manager has initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate being decided on 2 July 2020 on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on 3 July 2020. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept the T/11085. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 167 votes in favour, the House unanimously agreed to negotiate the proposal in an exceptional procedure. Accordingly, amendments can be submitted for 16 hours 32 minutes today. In view of the fact that, as decided, the discussion and the vote will take place at the next meeting, we will decide once again to supplement the agenda only during the adoption of the agenda for the Wednesday meeting. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear House, Now, at 1:33 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning. If you'll excuse me, I'm ordering a few minutes of technical break until the Prime Minister arrives in the room. [[It's a short break. Viktor Orbán is arriving in the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue our work with immediate questions. Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. I give the floor and ask everyone to sit down and listen quietly to the speaker.
u2020-06-29-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, do you want to talk about it? Soros? [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I see your eyes are lit up. You know, once again, at the beginning of the year, you said on one of the government contacts that you didn't want it to look like you had Soros Phobia. Now, the thing is, unfortunately, it seems perfectly clear that you do have a Soros phobia. Look, we've been hearing from you for years now that Soros has a dangerous plan. Now, it turns out that not only one, but two immediately, right, there's plan 1.0 and plan 2.0, right? Obviously, there will be a 3.0 plan before the election. Prime Minister, don't you feel like this is infinitely embarrassing? Can you even recall when this started with you exactly? When Soros became a serialist for his money, or when he was in charge of power? [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You've been accusing Jobbik of turning left lately. Meanwhile, all that happened was that we arrived in the middle. [[Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Jobbik is now exactly where a Hungarian People's Party must be in order to represent every decent Hungarian person. [[It's a rare round of applause and applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] But what happened to you, Prime Minister? What happened to you? The Vice President of the Liberal International has become an anti-Western friend of eastern dictators. He bows before the red stars with wreaths in his hand. Well, it's a nice way of life, Prime Minister, from one extreme to another extreme. I wish for you to find the path of normality and forget about your phobias, because we can't tell if you think the Hungarians are stupid or you are. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-40	Congressman, watch your words, please, because I'm taking the floor.
u2020-06-29-41	Soros is a 90-year-old man. Believe me, Prime Minister, we are very far from Soros' views, but I beg you, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarians lose their livelihoods, do not consult on Soros, but govern, because I believe that power can be built from Soros propaganda, but not a country. The question is, what's more important to you: country or power? [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz, including: Shame on you! Sit down, Number One. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-29-42	Before I give the floor to Prime Minister, Congressman, you regularly break all moral and educational boundaries. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Along with his associates, okay. But there are some boundaries that I will not allow to cross in this House, and I recommend that you consider your words, because I will take them away from you without hesitation if you make any more statements you just made. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He's at the National Assembly, not in a pub with his better friends, and he's addressed his question to the Prime Minister elected by the Parliament, in case he hasn't noticed. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: You're a bunch of jerks!]] Prime Minister's got the floor.
u2020-06-29-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The first question we need to clarify is, is there anyone else over there? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Well, if there are, we may have heard what your group leader has just said on your behalf, and since we didn't start politics today, such speeches have their own meaning, profession and function. What happened today in the House of the Country is that the leader of Jobbik took an oath to George Soros. Congratulations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's really bad.]] As far as the question is concerned, honourable Member, I have observed that although Members usually ask one question, you usually ask at least half a dozen. I have also observed that these questions are not logically related to each other, and I have also noticed that he does not argue, does not list arguments, but rather yells and reproaches. I have also noticed over the past six months that he regularly does not tell the truth, he likes to make false facts and make facts false. But what got my attention was that he was doing it in an extremely rude way of speaking. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, where you are sitting, the opposition, the place of the Hungarian opposition, could have taken on such great people, and people like Apponyi, Bajcsy or Nagyatádi took their seats. Try to grow up with them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2020-06-29-44	It's Congressman's word again.
u2020-06-29-45	How insulting the thieves are today, Prime Minister. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But let's consult. In recent years... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2020-06-29-46	Congressman, I've taken the floor from you. Sit down, please. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. James Peter: Let's consult! Consultation!]] I told you, I warned you, and I know you did what you did as a provocation, but, well, that's the way it is. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Don't be ridiculous, Mr. President.]] Tamás Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, also asks the Prime Minister an immediate question. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-47	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister! Renovation of the Chain Bridge is now at the heart of public speaking. Not for nothing, because this Chain Bridge is not only a symbol of the nation, but also a symbol of an era when the private wealth of so-called billionaires became public property, for example, in the form of the Chain Bridge or in the form of the Academy of Sciences. The money needed for the renovation and the renovation have not yet begun. However, there have been some decisions that you and your government have made over the past period, which seem to be important to the Hungarian government. This is to spend 6 billion forints on the 20th August celebrations; 1.3 billion for a half-hour fireworks. For the design of the Transport Museum, not for construction and design, HUF 7.8 billion. A HUF 20 billion such as this was added to the budget of MTVA next year, so this great institution can run from HUF 100 billion in a year; and 83 billion has already been committed and spent to renovate luxury hotels in Hungary in the hands of some billionaires. To renovate the Chain Bridge, the capital requires HUF 10 billion. I would ask you, quite frankly, Prime Minister, why the renovation of the Chain Bridge is not worth so much to you. Why isn't it worth three days of partying, celebrating in the country? Why isn't it worth renovating some luxury hotels? And you know, Prime Minister, very frankly, there are a lot of films in our capital city, Budapest, which brings a lot of money to this country, and none of them have any of the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros or even the small railway station in Felcsút, but also the Chain Bridge, Parliament and the Castle. We think that both this country and this building deserve the government to reach into his pocket and help. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-48	The Prime Minister has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-49	As far as the facts are concerned, there is indeed a Kisfaludy programme aimed at developing Hungarian tourism. It is a pity that you forgot to tell me, since you have already touched on this topic, that 650 pensions have been renovated with the support of the Hungarian government and 20,000 accommodations have been supported. They're all small businesses. If it concerns this issue, which is an important issue, the development of tourism, then instead of half-truth, it is worth dealing with the whole truth. As for your Lanchi, I have a briefing from the Treasury in my hand. [[He's presenting a document.]] Dear Congressman Belling, It says here that the Metropolitan Municipality on March 31, 2020 [[Shows it with your finger on the document.]] It has a debt of HUF 180 billion. 180 billion. The data are from the first quarter of 2020 of the Metropolitan Municipality. The capital has HUF 180 billion in money. The majority of municipalities with such money will then have less than 20 billion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-50	It's Congressman's word again.
u2020-06-29-51	Thank you very much. I don't know, I really don't know what the Fidesz and KDNP fractions were happy about that answer. I would have been happy if the Prime Minister had told me that the money was in the same place. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Pál Völner: You have a lot of money.]] But after talking about a national symbol, the Hungarian government helps to renovate this bridge from its budgetary resources. You could've applauded that. [[Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you're just there, Prime Minister, tell me what the hell Mr. Tarlos did in nine years. Excuse me. What the hell did you do? [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-52	Gentlemen.
u2020-06-29-53	How could three million square meters of road to be renovated after he left as mayor? [[Dr. Pál Völner: He left the money.]] How's the bridge? How are the public infrastructures as they stand? Prime Minister! This is a common national matter. The government and the budget have to get involved, and with honor, it's worth as much as three days of fun in the capital. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-29-54	I also urge Members on the pro-government side to listen quietly and patiently to speakers on the other side. Prime Minister's got the floor.
u2020-06-29-55	I'm glad you didn't deny the fact. So I would like to reiterate that in the bank account of Budapest, which is allegedly oppressed by the government, dear rural representatives have HUF 180 billion in sovereign debt, which can be mobilized at any moment. Which of their constituencies even has about that amount [[Szabó Timea: And two million people?]] Ladies and gentlemen? First. Secondly, in spite of everything, I thank the pro-government representatives for their patience for supporting, despite everything, the fact that during the time of the mayor of István Tarlós, 6 billion HUF is nevertheless! Let's vote for the Chain Bridge, and as we agreed, this 6 billion forints on the Chain Bridge will be available to the capital, of course, on top of the 180th. It also shows that to renovate the Chain Bridge, it is not the money that is lacking, but the expertise. It's hard with meccs. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-56	We now have László Varju, a representative of DK, who also wants to ask the Prime Minister a question.
u2020-06-29-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! The head of the Prime Minister's Office responsible for social relations wrote a letter to László Kordás, president of the Hungarian Trade Union Association. In this, you will inform the President that you have withdrawn funds from the trade union to protect workers' interests. As a matter of fact, Vince Szalay-Bobrovniczky said that he thought he was on the side of politicians against the government, and that was why they took the money away from the union. I quote the letter. In the midst of one of the darkest periods of Hungarian parliamentarianism, scandal in the House of Parliament, TV, street, and here they are talking about the slave law, and you are on the side of politicians acting against public order, and from then on I have no reason to consider you as civil society organisations, but political nudes. In this regard, I also feel justified in reducing resources and even flattering you. End of subpoena. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So you think protesting against this law would be a dark age of parliamentarism? Is there a legal basis for that impropriety? So you don't think that an organization representing workers and workers can act against the slave law by legitimate means? And if he does, he's threatening to make them happy to live, but in any case, most of the support they have is being withdrawn. This letter is blackmail, it's a threat, it's a dictatorship, Prime Minister. [[Defiance, murmuring in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] How could such a letter be born in your system? Is this the illiberal exercise? Is that what you think the Democrat's been doing? Is this your way of keeping people quiet? How can a letter in which a round pretzel describes how to be happy to receive something else, be glad to live, and then not to appear? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-06-29-58	Prime Minister has the floor again.
u2020-06-29-59	As I understand it, the trade unions are asking for money from the budget. We'd be happy to examine it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-60	Congressman, please.
u2020-06-29-61	Prime Minister! This letter isn't really about trade unions, it's about the hundreds of thousands they represent, they stand up for their interests. The leaders who are, by the way, the public powers practitioners of NER, if there is nothing else, will be threatened and will be expected to attack their individual. Just a hundred years after the white terror [[An uproar in the ranks of the governing parties: Ooh!]] This is the most diabolical government, this is the spirit you represent. But trade unions must also see that this government will never create opportunities for workers, miners, social workers to rise. [[13.50]] Let's all learn something. How long are you going to discuss a humiliating proposal? How long will the workers, employers... otherwise, by the way, you deliver the workers to Eastern investors? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How long will the workers' resorts be negotiated with a slaughtering service?
u2020-06-29-62	Once again, I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-63	I can't boast that I understand everything you've said. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] However, what I can rely on is your comment that you have not spoken for the interests of the trade unions, if I understand correctly, but for the interests of those represented by the trade unions. After being Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy for eight years, at least at one time in the eight-year socialist government, for several years, I would like to compare your performance with that of my government. When you were on the government, the left raised the minimum wage by HUF 23 500 in eight years, and our government increased by HUF 87 500. When we took over the government in 2010, the gross earnings in Hungary amounted to HUF 200,000. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And today it's over 400,000 forints. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-29-64	The leader of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, will also ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you two questions, and both are linked to the rail network, but in both cases I would like to ask basically about political intentions. Allow me to start with the quote. This is what it says, it is a literal quote: "The responsibility of the current Hungarian government is to maintain a railway network that ensures the circulation of the Hungarian economy. The further mutilation of the Hungarian railway network is anti-rural and undermines the safety and living conditions of the rural population, as well as the chances of economic development in the backward regions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think, and you know, Prime Minister, that this was said by your former Minister, current Secretary of State, János Fónagy, here, Mr. State Secretary, in 2006. We do know that between 2006 and 2009, Balliberal governments carried out a series of rather shameful measures against railway lines. This was a rail-destructive anti-rural policy, and then you protested from the opposition, Prime Minister, the loudest, and you did the right thing. At the same time, they follow this shameful tradition. About a month ago, a decision was made that 34 railway sidelines in Hungary were virtually condemned to death and decay. There is no rational economic or professional argument behind this, it is a clear attack on the countryside. But it can also be said that it was also a lie that this was some sort of temporary epidemiological measure, since the emergency was over and this measure was not withdrawn by the competent authorities. It is also not the case that such a decision was made for the worst-case railway lines, since one of the most recent and recently huge public funds, which was upgraded and electrified by this decision, was affected by this decision. So far, 40 municipalities have protested, Prime Minister, against the decision, including pro-government mayors, and some courageous Fidesz MEPs who also protested in public; even the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV has expressed the need to review this decision. My question to Prime Minister is that he is willing to stop Minister Palkovics and Secretary of State Mosóczi from raging, and he is willing to withdraw this measure. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and spend resources on their development instead of dissipating the sidelines. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-66	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2020-06-29-67	First of all, I would like to reassure you that Hungarian politics stands in such a constellation today that you do not need to protect the Hungarian countryside, given that there are quite a number of us in Hungary who think that there has been a country-friendly government in Hungary for more than 10 years. And the old injustices that the Hungarian countryside has suffered, and they were not small, we are trying to remedy it now, and we are not going badly. As far as the rail network is concerned, here's the thing. Today, in Hungary, rail transport is taking place according to an epidemiological agenda. So I would like it to be clear: there is an epidemiological agenda, and as long as the epidemic threat persists, we will also be on the same timetable. In the meantime, analyses will be carried out on the experience of the epidemiological agenda, and decisions will be taken when and when necessary. That's why there's no decision I can take back. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-29-68	Congressman, please.
u2020-06-29-69	I'd like to ask you that in your staff, there is a professional who says that in an epidemiological situation, the replacement bus would be safer than the train car. I suggest you divorce this expert. One more quick question, Prime Minister. You can't say that you don't have the resources to develop the railway sidelines. This year alone, you spend 80 billion forints on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, next year 120 billion forints. On the basis of a quick calculation, according to your calculations, 175 thousand new jobs will be supported by this amount. Prime Minister, over the last few weeks, we have been debating this Budapest-Belgrád project a great deal, and we have heard all kinds of vague ideas as to why some government members think it is good to make this decision. My question, Prime Minister, is that you have kept everything under wraps that the Chinese party has taken any guarantee of exploitation of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, that if it is built, it will be used. In other words, Prime Minister, despite the encryption, you are willing to present any documents to the Hungarian public, the Hungarian taxpayers, which support the decision to replace 175,000 new jobs [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are you renovating the Budapest-Belgrád railway line this year and next year? Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-70	Prime Minister, you have the floor again.
u2020-06-29-71	There are three different things here, I understand, Congressman. I wouldn't waste too many words at first, but I don't know what kind of encryption you're talking about. We're dealing with an international treaty. This was approved by the Parliament, and the Chinese party has the right to conclude on the closed nature of certain information. We've had this examined by our dealing authority, who approved this. So I think it's incorrect to talk about encryption and secrecy in this situation. The second question is that there is a sense in this type of investment and I would like to use a plural number in the next period for investments that link Budapest to other capital cities in the region by rail. I think they all make geostrategic sense. Connecting Budapest with Belgrade is a geopolitical decision. Connecting Budapest with and through Cluj-Napoca is a geopolitical decision. I am convinced that the Hungarian country needs this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Which of the small railway lines should work and which shouldn't work, and according to what timetable, is a third question I would be happy to discuss with you on another occasion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-29-72	Both Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. I'll give the floor to the head of the group first.
u2020-06-29-73	Thank you, Mr. President. I need your help. Three weeks ago, I asked the Ministry of Innovation and Technology a question that Hunguest Hotels owned by Lőrinc Mészáros used government wage support before firing 850 people. This question is also important because the hotel chain of Lőrinc Mészáros received almost HUF 18 billion from the Kisfaludy programme during the epidemic, where it was not even tied up to keep the workforce. We know that during the epidemic nearly half a million people lost their jobs or were in a situation where their wages were severely reduced. Compared to this, we're seeing government money-making going on with our buddies. Yes, half a million, because there are more than 300,000 registered, and there are hundreds of thousands of other people, such as mothers who have remained at home on forced leave, or those who are self-employed, or who are announced at a minimum wage, that they do not earn that much. I would like a direct answer from Prime Minister on the question: did Lőrinc Mészáros accept state wage subsidies before he fired 850 people or did he not hire them? I understand that both answers are very embarrassing to the government. Because if you hired him, why did you fire 850 people during the epidemic, while one of the basic aims of this support, if I understand correctly, would have been to help keep jobs? If you didn't get the support, it's embarrassing for the government, because then it means that even your dearest oligarchs considered the government's wage support to be completely useless in this situation. So they fired that 850 people instead. I'd like to ask you, while hundreds of thousands are on the street, you're filling your oligarchs, and they're not even bound to have public support to at least keep their employees. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-06-29-74	Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-06-29-75	All job support is normative, and it doesn't matter whether the claimant's name is Butcher or Leistinger. By the way, if you are interested in specific matters, feel free to continue to contact the manager of the responsible wallet. [[14.00]] I do not think it is right for any fellow Member to speak out on a matter as serious as unemployment in public. To claim that half a million people in Hungary would have lost their jobs you said earlier: half a million people have lost their jobs, show ignorance and ignorance. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] That's what he said, literally, that half a million people lost it. [[Interviews from the dialogue.]] However, I would like to inform you not so much, because it does not seem to be very helpful, but rather to the country's public opinion that 4 million 500 thousand people worked in Hungary before the outbreak, and 4 million 370 thousand people are working today. The difference is 130,000. I would like to continue to make it clear that as many jobs as the epidemic has ended, we will create as many jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews from the dialogue.]]
u2020-06-29-76	Then I don't know which one of you to answer in return. It's time again for the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-77	Prime Minister, once you give me a straight answer to an immediate question. Did Lőrinc Mészáros take on state wage subsidies or didn't take on state wage subsidies? Yes, there are 330,000 registered unemployed, you forgot to finish or say the second half of the sentence, which I also added was that so many people lost or lost their salary or were forced to take unpaid leave. Unfortunately, half a million people suffered very badly in this country, while the Lőrincs Mészáros received 187 billion forints during the epidemic in various orders overall. Compared to this, the HUF 187 billion... [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] I am not only talking about the Kisfaludy program, but also about all kinds of fake railway developments, and overall, Lőrinc Mészáros received HUF 187 billion, and HUF 200 billion in total in your wage support program. 200 billion forints for hundreds of thousands of people and 187 billion forints for one person. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Do you think that's fair, Prime Minister?
u2020-06-29-78	Thank you. It's Prime Minister's word again, in a minute.
u2020-06-29-79	I understand that there are difficulties with numbers, but also with the legal categories, it is not possible to save one Member. [[Szabó Timea: Ouch!]] Mixing financial support with public procurement, assignments, schoollessness, political uneducated, these are different things. By the way, I'd be happy to give you a specific answer. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I'd be more than happy to answer your question if you'd like to ask it once. I got a question from you today, you gave it to me. The question was: Szabó Timea, Bence Tordai to the Prime Minister: What is going on? That was the question. [[Interviews from the dialogue.]] If you'd help me next time, what exactly you're wondering, I'd be happy to give you an answer. [[Interviews from the dialogue, including Szabó Timea: Yeah, you're not answering now.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-80	Now, Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, who wants to ask questions to the minimum of human resources. I give the floor to Congressman Kovács.
u2020-06-29-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, The Crown Virus in Hungary has taken much less lives than other European countries. The number of people who died in connection with infection is a fraction of the countries of Western Europe. Nevertheless, the left has been spreading false news for months. Most of these are about health issues, but they also tried to scare the government into building a dictatorship on emergency grounds. Over the past few weeks, we've seen another great example of unethical political actions, when they told a woman who called herself a paramedic, named Athina Németh, through videotape, that nine of ten patients sent home from the hospital had died. After that, it became clear that not only were the words of Lajos Korózs false, but also that woman, that wonderful woman, did not tell the truth either. However, it is strange that Athina Németh made a statement to the Financial Times before the recording, and the Helsinki Committee was involved in some way before the recording, because Hungary was sued at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the basis of statements made by Athina Németh. During the fight against the epidemic, while the left was producing camuvideo, health workers, social workers, policemen, soldiers, government, operational tribe, epidemiological experts did their job and successfully protected Hungarian people from mass disease. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear Minister, In the current situation, it was particularly dangerous to create unjustified unrest and undermine public confidence in the health sector. Therefore, with all due respect, what steps has the Ministry of Human Resources taken to ensure that this outrageous matter is not left without consequences? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-82	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-29-83	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I see that the opposition has set the goal: to discredit the authority of Parliament, the government at all costs. They also discussed the methodology and, as a result, ran into closed doors from different directions on a very wide scale. All they had left was a producer, a reporter, a manager, and a true source, a clean source, a vatész who would tell us the present and the future and the eternal truth. She was Németh Athina. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He wasn't in any medical records, he wasn't in the State Health Services Center's records, he wasn't in the paramedics, he wasn't in the Samaritans, he wasn't in the paramedics, he wasn't in the paramedics. What your daughter told your mother was a good thing, but it doesn't seem to fit into your ambition, not your daughter's first question about your mother, but your mother's question about the government. Personally, he was trying to overthrow me, I don't know how to express myself, why I was honored with it. I would like to say that this is not a moral category, because it is not a political category, it is a criminal category, so we filed a report on 11 June. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The rejoinder is the congressman's word.
u2020-06-29-85	Thank you very much. Minister, I think it is just about time that the Ministry, the designated law enforcement bodies, adequately respond to this behaviour, the public crime, because in an emergency, in a problem, the opposition is trying to undermine the confidence, public confidence and public order that a society could operate in a calm manner. I think that there is no greater irresponsibleness when people's trust is about being able to stay healthy, taking care of me through the institutions that contribute to my health, to the health of my family, that's what they want to bomb. I wish you, Minister, that you will not give up the fight, that we will not give up the fight in this faction, that we will fight the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-06-29-87	Thank you very much. I feel like part of the Hungarian nation, I don't give up, I promised to the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-88	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2020-06-29-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Slowly and with minor difficulties, but it seems to be reaching the target of a salary supplement for healthcare workers, which means HUF 500,000. True, we also know that this is a gross sum, and we also know that not everyone gets it. But I want to forget about it, not about them, but about another very important sector and a pillar of health protection for the country that has allowed us to protect some of the Hungarian people. [[14.10]] They are the social workers, Mr. Minister, they are the workers who, unfortunately, do the hardest possible work for the lowest wage available in the public service. They were, and perhaps they all remember, who, when they had to nurse the sick in nursing homes, moved in and lived with them for two or three weeks, precisely to prevent infections, and their recognition is still waiting for you. Mr. Secretary. For now, it looks like it, and from what you're saying, you don't want to give social workers any wage supplements that are similar to those of health workers. That is why the issue is very important, and it is worth clarifying here that, taking advantage of the publicity of Parliament, social workers like health workers are worth as much as they are, and planning to show their appreciation in some way with a wage supplement or any other kind of compensation, and paying them what they have done in effective defence. From here, I would also like to thank the workers in the social sector for doing their job and helping them to defend themselves, because the epidemic has shown that one of the most important places of protection was theirs and theirs. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-29-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-91	Thank you very much. The whole Hungarian society was in almost national unity, except for you, in the corona virus epidemic. Obviously, everyone has done their part: the government, health, the social sector, the cultural sector, the taxi drivers, the shopkeepers, and I could continue the line. Obviously, the distribution of tasks was different, and the imagery of this is that healthcare workers were supported financially by the government in addition to moral recognition. Since 2010, doctors' salaries have increased by two and a half times, with increases of 72 percent for nurses, nurses and non-health professionals from 2019 to 2022. The pay conditions in the social sector have also increased significantly, by 112 percent compared to your last year. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Compared to whose last year? Dr. Pál Völner: You are already together! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Ridiculous!]] From 2016 onwards, the salary of social workers has increased at some address each year, and you can look at the data accurately. The government is constantly on the agenda of further raising the wages of health workers and increasing the wages of workers in the social sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-92	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-93	Dear Minister, Just for the record, we didn't have a last year, the Jobbik hasn't been on the government, no matter what you think. The last year, when I was such a decision maker that I could actually get involved in things, I spent in Karcagon at the municipality as a municipal representative. So I don't know if he was thinking about those years or anything. Mr. Secretary. I would like to say that I clearly see that you do not want social workers to receive a salary supplement similar to that granted to health workers. Then we should tell them when it will be, and how long they will have to wait for them to have some kind of normal wage increase, what their fate will be, because it seems like they have forgotten about this sector, social workers. There is one more very important question, and I would like you to address this in your rejoinder: what do you do for the second wave, so that social institutions and social workers are properly prepared? Because we've seen that there's a problem when patients from hospitals go to social services and spread the infection. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There must be some way to prevent this, to prepare the supply system and, above all, the workers. Answer this. [[The president's ringing again.]] What do they put on the second wave to protect the social sphere? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-29-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-06-29-95	I've answered the pay situation in the social sector. In one unconfirmed case, but in a suspicious case, it may be assumed that the coronal virus from the hospitals has gone to the nursing home, this is Mezsilas. There are 55,000 people in the social sector, of which 3,800 are in Budapest, most of the people who are sick and dying in the social sector. You can look into it. To date, from March onwards, to this day and for the weeks ahead, the procedure describes exactly how the nursing home, generally the social institutions, should be protected. This is accessible to all, and I would also suggest that you look at it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-96	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. How does the government support the summer work of students? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-06-29-97	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-06-29-98	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-29-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, After the extraordinary spring this year, thanks to the government's effective defense of what has been done during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, we hope to see a calmer summer. Indeed, as Minister Kásler has said, all actors in all sectors have taken their part in effective defence, thank you for it, and thank the Hungarian people for complying with the rules. Obviously this was a test, and all the sectors were also tested, so our education system was also tested, because the digital curriculum had to be introduced as a necessity, but I have to say that the Hungarian education system has also passed the test successfully, and the academic year has also been successfully and successfully completed. We hope that all young people, all students, all students, have successfully completed this academic year. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is that a very important and useful practice has been launched in Hungary, and this is giving and supporting the possibility of student work. I myself, when I think back to my high school years, it wasn't just now, it was a long time ago, I spent all my summers doing student work for a month, from the Csepel Papermaker to the Iron Bottle to the Iron Company. Many, many young people in my constituency are also interested in the development of this summer's opportunity to work. I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, what kind of government support, what kind of assistance is expected in order to facilitate student work, because we know that we want to build a work-based society, and it is important that young people get to know this side of life as students, prepare themselves for the difficulties of life, and in this sense the programme and support of the government would help them very much. I would be honored to have your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-100	Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-29-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungarian people want and can make a living from work, and, as you said, we do not want to build a welfare-based society here, but a work-based society in Hungary, and that is why jobs need to be protected, and that is why new jobs need to be created, which is why it is also necessary to support the employment of young people. Honourable Congressman, Our goal is for young people to be the winners of the future, because the future of the country is in the hands of children and young people, which is why we have paid special attention to young people in the event of an emergency. In education, we introduced the digital curriculum, which allowed teaching to take place during an emergency, both in public education and in vocational training and in higher education, the results of which are very convincing. We have also made available the new Student Loan Plus, in which the higher education students can apply for an interest-free student loan of HUF 500 000. The fact that this was a good decision also shows that more than 14 000, 14 824 people have already applied for this support. Honourable Congressman, We will continue to help students: we will start a programme to support students' summer work with a budget of HUF 3 billion, in which students between the ages of 16 and 25 can take part from 1 July to the end of August, whether in local governments or in agriculture, tourism or catering. We look forward to their application, and we look forward to the application of companies who want to employ these young people. In total, we can provide more than 21,000 students with some kind of help within the framework of this program. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2020-06-29-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your answer. Indeed, for many students, this was a reassuring response, and I am pleased that the government supports student work with such material means and resources. We all know that by passing on the idea of Marai, the child is the greatest miracle, the only meaning of our lives, so it is important to strengthen and build our young people, our future in this way, and to devote our children and our young people to a productive and successful life in a work-based society. So this gives our young people a kind of insight and a chance of success, not to mention that they can earn income and start some responsible farming. If someone works for something and buys something personal, they all value it more and more. So I'm glad to hear your answer, and thank you very much on behalf of the students. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unlike left-wing governments, we do not take away from students or young people, we do not want to sabotage them, but help them and provide them with different subsidies. After all, we are interested in Hungarian young people finding their calculations in Hungary, living, learning and working here is also the opportunity for summer student work. The range of grants and opportunities that help young people to learn, start a family, create a home, learn languages and find their place is constantly expanding. There is a long list of different measures, from family home creation benefits to baby shower support, free exams or reimbursement of language exams. These are all subsidies that promote the success of young Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-106	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's next? It's an address. Mr János Bencsik has the floor.
u2020-06-29-107	Mr. Prime Minister, In the past few days, I submitted a bill to ensure that neither the Hungarian Academy of Sciences nor the Hungarian Academy of Arts could be a member of a person who was involved in the secret service activities in the time of the party state. It turned out that Gábor Xantus, born in Cluj-Napoca, could be a founding member of the MMA by being the informant of the infamous Romanian secret police, Securiate, and by serving the anti-Hungarian Ceaușescu regime. I hold in my hand the letter of the President of the MMA, György Vashegyi [[He's showing it to me.]] which informs me at my request that Xantus' membership complies with the legal rules. In addition, you created this law in 2011, and on this basis you can become an academic member in Hungary today. Prime Minister, my question is simple: how is that possible? How can it be that people in the party-state dictatorship not only as accomplices, but as active participants, operators and managers of repression have broken careers, destroyed families, today not only live happily but also enjoy your support and taxpayers' money? Károly Szita, László Tasnádi, Sándor Békés: they are not just holes in the shield, Prime Minister, they are the shield itself, the shield that protects you from the attacks. So I'm asking you to give me an answer to the question of how you fit into the old-fashioned Christian democracy of ex-agents and snitches, or if you can't fit in, you'll support my law-modernizer, which would rule that out in the future. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause in the ranks of independent representatives.]]
u2020-06-29-108	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-06-29-109	There's a methodological problem here. So I would be happy to answer specific questions if I could find out in time what the specific question is and collect the relevant correspondence. At noon today, you asked me the question, János Bencsik, independent, to the Prime Minister: In this case, which you have raised, I will be informed, and I will give you the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-110	Thank you very much for the Prime Minister's reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-111	I must thank you for your reply, Prime Minister, because of my good upbringing, but I find it difficult to understand why 30 years after the change of regime and 10 years after your two-thirds government, this is the subject of thinking or reflection. Prime Minister, I have a confession to make to you: in 2002, when I was a high school student, I attended a campaign event and applauded you. In fact, if I had the right to vote when I was 17, I probably would have voted for you because I believed what you said at the Rijeka Hotel in Csaba. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] At the family table, beside the chicken soup on Sunday, we had late - tip debates in my family about why communists should not be allowed back into power. Prime Minister, I had a dream: this dream was called civil Hungary. And this was a dream shared by hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens. You denied and took this dream from us, and your government since 2010 will desecrate all those values. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can't forgive you for what these people claim to be yours...
u2020-06-29-112	Congressman, your time is up.
u2020-06-29-113	Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the ranks of independent representatives.]]
u2020-06-29-114	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-06-29-115	I'll tell you the truth... Let us speak seriously first: in the case of a man in the news with Securitate, if he asks that we be able to make a responsible statement in front of the public of the country, we need to be aware of what this is all about. The other thing I don't understand is, where was his sensitivity during KáGéBéla? It's like he was part of that faction, isn't it? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-116	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2020-06-29-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, During the measures to reduce the economic impact of the corona virus epidemic, we discussed a great deal, and we listened to the fact that, of course, we said that job creation, keeping jobs, you said that you were building a work-based society, and that generally state-supported loans made commitments for entrepreneurs to keep their jobs in addition to improvements. And that's what the news is about how many companies kept jobs and how much they had to do. Fact and truth, there are companies that have taken on beyond their power, and for all such companies, we should be grateful, and they should be praised, but there are exceptions. Under the Kisfaludy programme, companies linked to Lőrinc Mészáros first laid off 850 people, put 850 families in a hopeless or impossible situation, and then this government rewarded him with HUF 17.7 billion, in addition to the attention of the medalist. Since then, tourism companies have been given money for renovation to Lőrinc Mészáros, which is why it is interesting that there are companies that have to do a lot, they have to do it beyond the power to keep the Hungarian workers, and some of them are not obliged to do so. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister: how have the applications of the Kisfaludy programme been evaluated? Has Lőrinc Mészáros been prescribed employment, further employment, any market conditions? And how does it even happen that if you dismiss 850 people, you get 17.7 billion forints? Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-29-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-06-29-119	I do not feel it is my job, although this is what I am forced to do on a regular basis, to present to you certain basic government structural issues here, who are interested in this. But speaking of questions, I think it is worth paying attention to the fact that there is a Kisfaludy programme, which is a tourism development programme, which has nothing to do with any crisis management, and there is a crisis management mechanism that contains six or seven different economic policy measures. The two are apples and pears; they cannot be mixed. Entrepreneurs applying for job protection measures must take on different job protection aspects; applicants for development must do different things. It's two different things. [[14.30]] I'm happy to be at your disposal, whichever case you're interested in, whether it's Kisfaludy's development programme or crisis management, just decide which one you want to talk about. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-120	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I would, of course, like to talk about this one case. According to press reports, and obviously based on public and public records, it can be seen that Lőrinc Mészáros won this money, HUF 17.7 billion, when he took dividends from his own companies for HUF 11 billion. You used to refer to him when he was trained, what do you call him? the national capital class, we call it simpler than that, because they can be called upon when the government is in trouble. Prime Minister, why doesn't anyone tell Lőrinc Ripper where the moral, moral standard is, when it's time to tell him not to send people away now, not now. After all, the national capital class is here to help Hungarians. You are talking a lot about solidarity right now, so I ask Prime Minister: what do you think, is this kind of support right? Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-29-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-06-29-123	As I understand it, we managed to mix a third completely different question, the profitable nature of the operation of Hungarian businesses here. That has nothing to do with it either. I would like to make it clear that we are doing economic development. Economic development programmes are awarded on the basis of economic development considerations. Your men, the Red Barons, will also receive support, regularly and much, if you bring intelligent programs here. Because I don't make decisions on the basis of those who judge applications, or I don't make decisions on the basis of government strategic questions on the basis of who's color when it comes to the economy. The economy cannot be built on a party basis, so any sensible economic idea must be embraced. The former, in my opinion, in a poorly performing government, is also receiving support for an important ministerial position if it comes with a sensible development idea. If I wanted to speak in your language, I would repeat that the Red Barons would also receive support if they came with a sensible development program. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-124	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How did we get to this point?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-29-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The principles of equal treatment and equal dignity do not apply in our school system. Schools live their everyday lives in the midst of social tensions that would shake adult people, let alone advanced students. Some schools are completely fed up, with complete regions facing a hopeless situation with regard to their schools and their future. Masses grow up as time progresses with them in school, differences between them at the age of six would not only decrease but even increase. We are all alone with this, by the way, in the European Community. This tension has led to a lot of conflict today. You think it's the school guard's institution for firefighting, which handles the challenges that exist. But we need to talk about what set this fire. In many respects, the government's disqualified approach and the continuing reduction of institutional guarantees have led to the worsening situation of downgraders. This causes aggression on both sides. We all see the problem, but this can't be solved with handcuffs, batons and pepper spray. What are these devices even doing in a school? These guys belong in jail. The fire you mentioned, Mr. Prime Minister, was created by emptying the pedagogical services. The profession is empty, and there are hardly any people left today who can help teachers to help students who, I stress, have needed help so far. At the moment, the school guard's institution is suggesting that they will take action against these children, once again, by means of schools that go to prison. I'd like to ask you, Prime Minister, how did we get here? When you've actually transformed this country completely over the last ten years, why didn't the schools succeed? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-06-29-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-06-29-127	I would warn against creating a one- or two-song sommas opinion on the Hungarian school system. First of all, because in Hungary today, the world's most modern factories operate, not only in the automotive industry, but also in information technology, but in almost any industry in the world. These factories are operated in Hungary by the workers who operate these robotic factories, and we are talking about something not simple, and these factories are operated today in Hungary by the workers who come out of our school system. Most of these factories are run by Hungarian engineers and CEOs, which may be owned abroad, but most of them have Hungarian management, who have come from our schools, our kindergartens, our high schools and our universities. So I would like to make it clear that the assessment of the performance of Hungarian education cannot be white or black. It is not possible to say that the school system of a country that can run the world's most state-of-the-art factories with full responsibility in Hungary is wrong. Therefore, I would like to ask you for more respect, as well as other critics of the education system, when it comes to education systems, students and especially teachers, because these excellent workers and engineers have been trained by our teachers. It is still a legitimate question that if you accept it, it will be simpler to ask regardless of the situation that is about it, and here we should not avoid the hot porridge, so that students from the worst families in financial standing, who are often gypsy students, can not be integrated into the normal order of education. We're struggling with this problem. All I can say is that if there's no clear, clear, disciplined, well-run, hard-handed schoolteachers and schools, there's no way to keep order in these schools. The conditions have gone wild, it is necessary to introduce a school guard in many places, and if necessary, we must protect the other students and protect our teachers against the students who have forgotten themselves. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-128	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I have understood your arguments before, which is why I argue that the way here was also wrong, but their response to the challenge is also wrong now. Once again, to respond to school violence with a baton and pepper spray in a social context where social tensions arising from unheardness and incomprehension accumulated over several decades are emerging, in this connection, I would refer once again to the emptying of pedagogical services and to the fact that they were not well funded, so that teachers were not helped to manage integration processes. The purpose function is fine, that is not right, and I would like to bring in one more topic quite briefly, that the parents of autistic children, for example, are very concerned that when these children are under attack, they will not be dealt with by the members of the school guard. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Believe me, Prime Minister, I've spoken to a lot of people who are worried about this. I'll thank you if you'll reassure me in your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-06-29-131	I think there are some things we can agree on, too bad it's not the point. But what we agree on isn't irrelevant. Because if I understand what you're saying, or at least if I was right about your ideas behind your words, then we agree that catching up for the gypsy and not gypsy children, but starting from a difficult situation, has two options: first you have to learn and then you have to work. And if they learn well, then there is a chance that they can get out of the situation they were born into, and if they work after studying, then there is a chance that they can have a better life than their parents. So we agree that both learning and work must be supported. Which, if I understand correctly, we disagree, is about the tools to be used in school. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for me to say that if the parent is a gypsy or not a gypsy, he goes to school because the child got an "A" and physically threatens the teacher, then I will not tolerate it! It's impossible for parents to go in and threaten teachers in a state education system. Then he'll be a school policeman, and we'll keep order, because the study and the work will start in order. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-132	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.40]]
u2020-06-29-133	Dear Minister, The Ministry of Human Resources has provided two valid arguments as to why healthcare workers receive a one-off fee of HUF 500,000. The first was that they had a lot of overtime during the epidemic; the second was that they had to face the threat of the epidemic. So it's an overtime, and it's a hazard supplement at the same time. However, these two conditions exist in full for social workers, so I would ask that, contrary to my fellow Member's response, you try to state why, according to the Ministry of Human Resources, social workers do not deserve the one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement. That would cost the budget $45 billion, according to your calculations. Please don't put me in a position to start comparing things to what you spend $45 billion in the budget instead of giving it to social workers. The fact is that in vain you will read the panel collection written by the Secretary of State of Rétvári about the increase in wages in the social sector, at the moment when we speak, a caregiver working in an elderly home earns HUF 182 thousand net. It's a fact. Even if you make any fidesz announcements, this fact is true, these people are the worst-paid employees in the public sector. The fact is that social workers need to be thanked, and we should thank them for their work from here, but they can't buy school supplies for the child, and they can't pay the rent. These people, as my fellow Member has already said, have moved in for weeks... [[Dr. Miklós Kásler is talking to Kontra Károly.]] Please, listen to me. Sometimes they moved into the institutions for weeks; sometimes they brought in protective equipment themselves, food for elderly people, for example, or children with disabilities in a residential facility, were repeatedly explained to disabled children every day why this was the case. Tell me why you don't think they deserve a one-time pay supplement.
u2020-06-29-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-135	In his heated remarks, Mr President, he called to death why social workers had not received money, why income had not been raised. This can be done with a one-off income supplement and can be done by raising salaries. I say specifics because they're stubborn things. From 1 January 2014, the social sector bonus, from 1 July 2015 the supplementary supplement, from 1 December 2016 the consolidated social sector bonus, from 1 January 2018 the health supplement, from 2020 the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage correction, and in 2022 also the combined social sector allowances increased and increased the incomes of social workers. In a word, no one ever said that the wage increases were over. If you have been listening, I have just said that the government is dealing with this issue, not with a one-off income supplement, but with an in-house payment supplement, a salary increase. In 2020, the government spent HUF 36 billion on wage increases. And I repeat another number: with a 14 percent wage increase going back to early 2020 compared to 2010, as I said earlier, the average social wage has increased by 115 percent. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-136	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-137	Mr. Secretary. Try to argue in this House that the caregiver who worked in the nursing home who moved in for two weeks under the Crown Virus did not see his own children deserve a one-time payment of HUF 500,000. That's what you should be talking about, not reading the Fidesz announcements. You're responsible for this area. You are responsible for this area, although you often do not know who is the maintainer of this institutional system, because most of the time you miss the state, but you are responsible for the social area. The fact is, you have said many things, many numbers; 15,000 people are missing from the social sector because wages are so humiliating. Come with me to visit institutions in Western Hungary anywhere, or come to parts of Austria where almost only Hungarians work in the whole social institution system, and you will see what the wage situation is like. Do you know how much these people make? Do you know that in addition to 115 percent, these people will receive a net net worth of HUF 180,000? Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-06-29-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-06-29-139	Thank you very much. Congressman, you were kind enough to invite me on a tour of Hungary. [[Péter Ungár: No...]] I'm so sorry, I can't do this enough. The facts I've listed are facts. You always make the Balliberal Methodical mistake of giving me statements that have never been made, and then you can answer them, making it look like it's on the agenda, that's what it's about. I'm gonna need you to read this down a little bit, think about it. I'm in my own field of expertise, even though you claim otherwise. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-140	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: What is going on here? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2020-06-29-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, From the Minister of Foreign Affairs' fractional reports, we've heard from you at times about the purchase of some medical devices during the epidemic, but you're the Minister of Health, so I think it's best that we come straight to you with the following questions. How many respirators did Hungary buy during the epidemic, and how many of them are there in the country now? How much of this number is suitable for invasive and noninvasive procedures? How much of this number has a CE certificate, so how is it suitable for use according to the EU certificate? How many were there that had to be returned because of warranty problems that were useless? And then the financial side of this thing: how much did the ventilators cost? How many contracts were made for the purchase of respirators, and how many of them are public? I mean, if we're following the press, there's about two cases where the contract details were released. And given the uncertainties surrounding this issue, my final question to the Minister is, are you willing to disclose the contracts for the purchase of ventilators, or, unfortunately, are they also the subject of a business secret? Thank you for your reply.
u2020-06-29-142	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-29-143	Thank you very much. The operational tribe was established for the first time in Europe on 31 January. Everyone there had their job. My job is to prepare healthcare for the coronal virus epidemic. The purchase of the machines was carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the ITM. You've asked them many times, we've all heard the answers. For more details, please contact them, they know and answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-144	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-145	As Minister for Health and Deputy Head of the operational tribe, I would expect more responsibility. Then answer me, perhaps it's your competence that you're right that all 82 people had to be strapped to a ventilator at the height of the outbreak. Is it true they bought 16,000 ventilators? Is it true that at that time, two hundred times the need was overwhelmed by a ventilator? Is it true that this is a larger number than any Western European country in our country, five, six, eight times larger population, accumulated ventilator? Is it true that the average price of these ventilators was nearly HUF 20 million, while the published contracts were about HUF 5 and HUF 9 million, and a noninvasive machine, which gave a significant share of your orders, could already be bought for HUF 1.5 million? [[14.50]] So you're right, you've measured this by magnitude, and you've spent 300 billion on it, and you could have doubled it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the salaries of health workers? Is that true, Minister?
u2020-06-29-146	Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-29-147	I have been able to say in this House several times that we are prepared for the worst variation in the world. Thank God we avoided this with appropriate epidemiological measures. No doubt we're in over-confident condition, not everything was needed, the epidemic threat, Congressman, it's not gone. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-148	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How can the purity of local public life be ensured? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-29-149	Dear Secretary of State, Last autumn, on the basis of the footage in the Hungarian press, everyone could obtain abundant information about how Csaba Lackner, a socialist local government representative from Kispest, was inexorably increasing his own assets by abusing his elected office and, of course, obtaining legal income. It is infuriating that the corruption strategy developed by the Social Liberals to perfection in the 1990s again serves as an existential source for their people exercising public authority. Lackner admitted without blinking on the recording that anyone who doesn't make ten million a month using such tricky transactions is simply botched, talentless. It is dismaying that the left-wing town administration of Kispest is unable to control people like Lackner, thus not being able to preserve the purity of local public life and the legal basis for the operation and management of the municipality. We can also recall that despite all these fraudulent acts, Péter Gajda even gave the said Member a committee position. In fact, Gajda believes that all this is just an embarrassing campaign. It is sad that the mayor's ear was not struck by the words of serious corruption on the recording. It is shameful and simply unworthy that, in addition to fair politics, the left, who broke a loud spear, was able to stand behind such a candidate every day, besides being driven by Gyurcsány. It must be made clear that in Hungary it is not possible for immoral persons who abuse the trust of voters to fulfil public authority status. In addition, the illegal seizure of public funds, in addition to violating the legal order, seriously violates the democratic nature of the practice of local public authority and terrifyingly undermines the state of public speech. All this is deeply reprehensible, and this phenomenon must therefore be blocked. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Honourable Minister or Secretary of State how to ensure the purity of local public life. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-29-151	Congressman! Thank you, Mr. President. You seem to be asking the impossible, trying to explain the impossible, why you can't be in these districts, settlements, where the left works, maintaining the purity of public life. The leader of the left said in 2006 that he was governed by hundreds of tricks, and that he is still practicing it in the municipalities, and it is likely, as recently, in the present, and surely, that they will continue to do in the future. What have you done recently? How did the leadership of the capital work? Where money was carried out in a nokis box, where the most important wealth was stolen, say, through the waterworks or the Metro-City Channel Works through privatisation, and where Europe or at least Hungary was involved in the biggest corruption scandal, which was metro 4. And when we look at the present, we look at the present period, although some of the voters have forgotten what happened recently when they were ruling, when they were leading the capital, but they were voted back. And now many people are faced with the helplessness, the immense desire for power, and the hunger for money that has been in the left-hand side, again, how it appears. In Józsefváros, András Piko took away the housing of medical workers, policemen and firefighters, claiming that during this period they could not help people because of the epidemic. The civil servants are fired by the mayor of Hódmezővásárhely. The better-run Ózdon reduced the salary of the kindergarten teachers until August 31st. And what did Peter Niedermüller, Imre László, the mayor of NewBuda, who praised Hitler, do? He's signing a contract with that lawyer for tens of millions of forints who are at least dubious: Czeglédy Csaba. It's very difficult what to do in this situation. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-152	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-153	Minister of State, an interesting political situation has emerged in Budapest, as Mayor Gergely Christmas, who is the Mayor of Dialogue and MSZP, can be linked to the fact that Mr. Csepel in the district is in North Pest, as we learned in the campaign. Or we can add that the Hungarian National Museum is in Városliget, but the oddities of left-wing politics continued with the fact that the Mayor of Kispest, Péter Gajda, who did not recognize Csaba Lackner, who had been a representative since 2002, was chairman of the City Policy and City Management Committee between 2014-19, and because he could not recall his voice or his portrait, he made a proposal where he was appointed president of the Social and Housing Committee in the part of the city. I think that left-wing politics in Budapest today is in no way typical of moral or moral holding. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-29-155	Mr. Congressman, continuing to answer your question, the dilemma is, let's say, that the capital is now led by a figure of pussy, in the person of Gergely Christmas himself, but the latest news says that Ferenc Gyurcsány. I'm sure the mayor-elect doesn't even know where what's really in this town. Graffitiating, scribbling asphalt, Facebooking, building a bicycle band, simultaneously destroying Budapest's transport, I could tell you the madness that he started, and from the other side, during the epidemic, he proved that he did not care about the elderly in Budapest. By the way, he hasn't set foot in a nursing home on Pesti Road since all this terrible tragedy happened. In the same way, the Lanchid does not care, we have heard in the last few minutes how much money the capital has, and they do not care about it. Such a team is leading the capital, in many places the country, the districts. I hope that the voters will recognize this and that they will not be elected again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Yes or no? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: I respectfully accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-29-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The coronal virus epidemic has made our lives miserable. But one good thing happened during the quarantine: never before did so many people start cycling in the past few months. Our common goal is to become a sports-loving nation into an athletic nation, but to do so, we also need the right quality cycling routes. You promised to build the Budapest-Balaton bike path by the summer of 2019. This would also be extremely good for Balaton tourism, but it has not yet been implemented. You have also promised that the bike ride to Balaton, where possible, will be three meters wide. But they didn't, they fooled people! Who is responsible for this, Mr. Secretary? On the basis of the opinions of cyclists and civil society organisations and my own experience, I can say that the Balaton bike circle is dangerous. Some of its sections are narrow, poorly designed, poor quality, driving on highways that do not even slow down vehicle traffic. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: when will the bike circle in Balaton be made safe? When are you going to build the mestro-balatonmaria-bike road that connects to this? When will the Budapest-Balaton bike road be built, the bike road that connects the two-million-dollar city with the country's most popular holiday resort? [[15.00]] Finally, will you finally be willing to honour your earlier promises, to build bicycle roads to ensure the transport and recreation of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians? Are you willing to do this, Mr. Secretary? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-29-158	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-29-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I understand your generosity towards me, that I try to answer all these types of questions from my head, all of Hungary's bicycle travelers, from the front of my head, this is an honor, but I may not be able to reach this greatness. Please allow me to inform you, however, that we agree that the development of cycling transport, the promotion of cycling transport, is indeed an important issue that we can agree on, because Hungary is already at the forefront of cycling at European level. If we look at the percentage of people who use the bicycle as their main means of transport, we can say that only two legendary cycling-friendly countries, the Netherlands and Denmark, are ahead of us. This is why it is really important that improvements be made that contribute partly to tourism development and partly to improvements that also support everyday transport. I therefore think that we can be proud of the performance that we have achieved in recent years, since significant improvements have been made in the period 2014-2020, with a total value of more than HUF 200 billion in bicycle infrastructure, partly from domestic and partly from European Union support. Within a short period of time, the existing network will be able to expand its own cycle path of 2,000 kilometres. Therefore, the entire cycling network will be close to 15,000 kilometres by 2030. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-29-160	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-161	Dear Secretary of State, I am truly sorry that you have not been able to provide concrete answers to specific questions, but you could at least tell us who is responsible for this, that these projects have not yet been implemented. I would like to say that Márius Révész is the government commissioner responsible for cycling in Hungary today, but you know that, because his mandate was recently extended. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán wanted to get to Lake Balaton by bicycle in 2014. Well, they could really please him, but not just for him, but also for the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who want to spend their free time in a lively way. Therefore, I would ask you once again to answer my specific questions, and with all due respect, I would also ask you to build the promised bike routes and help extend the tourist season in Balaton. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-29-162	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-29-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that there are currently more than 9,000 km of cycling facilities available to road users in the country, of which 4 thousand kilometres are separate cycling routes or walking and cycling routes. I'm honored, once again, to assume that I know all the related developments by heart. Allow me, honourable Member, also to draw attention to the fact that it is not sporting to judge the work of the Commissioner who is not present. This may be less fair for a sportsman. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that the Tisza-tavi bike path has circled, the bike circle in Balaton is renewed, and the Budapest-Balaton connection is being built, and the development of the bicycle route between the Mesztegnyő-Balatonmáriafürdő you asked is being implemented within the framework of two separate projects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-29-164	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the foreign and foreign minister an immediate question:, How does the government support the investment and investment of domestic businesses across borders? It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Levente, Deputy Minister of State, was authorised to reply. I ask you, my fellow Member, will accept the person who is responding.
u2020-06-29-165	I'll take it.
u2020-06-29-166	Yes, the floor is yours.
u2020-06-29-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Due to the negative economic impact of the corona virus epidemic, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament and the Hungarian government are doing their best to ensure that domestic businesses suffer as little damage as possible. On the other hand, if we look at the last three weeks of the opposition, the left, we can see a fake paramedic video, national consultations stolen from mailboxes, and we can also see words of praise or praise for Hitler. So on the left, we see this performance, while we here on the government side try to do everything we can to restart and boost the economy. The government has also announced, among other things, a competitiveness-enhancing programme for domestic businesses. Competitive support is intended to help large and medium-sized enterprises affected by a coronal virus epidemic in the manufacturing and business service centre sector to overcome their income losses and liquidity problems. It is also a condition that they undertake to retain their employees and to carry out new investments. The 806 companies using competitiveness-enhancing grants committed to investing HUF 377 billion in the coming months, thus protecting 143 618 jobs, with a grant of HUF 169 billion. After a two-month series of negotiations, the European Commission approved support for companies in Hungary to increase their competitiveness over EUR 800 000. Dear Secretary of State, KDNP fully supports the latest measure presented by the Government and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó for domestic companies. According to the government's decision, within the framework of the economic protection action plan, a national export protection programme will be launched with a budget of HUF 25 billion to support Hungarian companies wishing to grow, expand and acquire new markets in export markets. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State how the government supports domestic businesses, what details are included in the national export protection programme. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-29-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Levente Magyar. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I think it is very topical, because a few days ago we announced this particular export protection programme in the spirit of the principle in which the whole crisis management is taking place in Hungary. But perhaps this should not be called crisis management, because not only do we want to remedy the direct consequences of the economic difficulties of the crisis, but we are looking at this as an opportunity, and we are not working to minimise the damage, but we are working on Hungary's economic progress as much as it may be on the European continent, but also on a global scale. We'll see how this job works. The figures now outlined show that there will be a setback this year, but then the fruits of our work will appear in a rapid recovery. [[15.10]] This work takes place on many channels, in many directions, pumping the ten billion into companies that are brave enough, innovative enough, looking forward enough to invest in these risks and difficult times. As you said, a great deal of support has already been provided to domestic companies. Recently, we have started to call the implementation of a strategy of laying-out strategy that aims to ensure that Hungarian companies do not only work in Hungary but also abroad, be it the other countries of the Carpathian Basin or far-reaching countries, so they invest in these countries, thus creating jobs, producing value there, and then bringing back profits to help new domestic investments. In this way, we launched our export protection programme, which established the limit within which we can support this activity, i.e. investment abroad, thus contributing to the more favourable situation of Hungarian companies, the Hungarian economy after the crisis, than they were before the crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-29-170	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. We can see that when the first phase of defense was closed and health protection was successful, we could not count on the support of the left. Now the implementation of the economic protection action plan is being continuously attacked, we have already heard today, the investment incentives, the Kisfaludy programme and countless programmes that want to put Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian workers in a more favourable position and constantly help them in their difficult situation. What we want now, when the world economy seems to restart, is for Hungarian businesses to start in a more favourable position, whether they supply or produce in Hungary or abroad. I think it is very important that the government launches an export defence programme as an export-oriented country. We see that these efforts are not supported from the left, they cannot be expected by the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, but, Mr Secretary, I urge you to implement this export protection programme and, if necessary, to expand it further. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-173	We know not only from experience, but also from what has happened in recent weeks, that everything is always sharper in times of crisis, that every decision has more weight, more consequences than when things are normal. This was the case in 2008-10, as is the case today. When we consider the decisions on which we imagine strengthening the Hungarian economy, we act in the knowledge of this responsibility, and in the knowledge of this responsibility, we now use a hundred billion-dollar scale to ensure that our companies are able, once again, not only to the level before the crisis, but to get out of this situation more strongly than they were. We have a good chance of taking a great competitive step forward in an international comparison, because there are very few governments in Europe today that give support to investment with the courage of the Hungarian government, because they either distribute or look at the events in a state of paralysis and coldness. I could give you a long list of these countries. I therefore think that we should be proud of the results achieved, but we cannot be satisfied with them, we must go further on this path, and the results will be shown by the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-174	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the truth? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you, do you accept the recipient's identity? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes.]] Or he's asking for an answer in person. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-29-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A proposal for a decision on the appropriateness of government decisions in relation to the management of a coronal virus epidemic has been tabled today by my fellow opposition Members. I would like to ask questions, which are included in the proposal for a decision, in order to clarify what has happened in recent months. What was the bed capacity of the Hungarian state health institutions, and how many beds did they have to evacuate in the context of the coronal virus outbreak? What surveys, studies, and calculations were carried out by the government that provided the basis for bed evacuation? By what means were bed discharges ordered, there was a contradiction between the relevant decisions? How many patients had to be sent home from medical facilities in the context of bed relief, and what health were they in? How were patients sent home selected? Did you perform a coronal virus test before you sent them home? Have you informed the local authorities of the place of residence of the patients that the person in need of care is being returned home? How many scheduled surgeries did you have to postpone in case of an emergency? The health institutions had a sufficient number of protective equipment, and if so, when did they receive them, if not, what was the reason for this? How many ventilators did the medical facilities have, what type were they, and how did the number of equipment change during the epidemic? How regularly have employees of health institutions been tested? I could tell you for a very long time about the questions that we are waiting for within the committee for answers. Secretary of State, will you support the formation of this committee? If you tell us in this Parliament every single question that we're not telling the truth, then you'll support it, won't you? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And will they say that in order to find out the truth, they have no reason to be afraid and a committee of inquiry can be set up?
u2020-06-29-176	Congresswoman, thank you very much for your interest. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.]] His time frame is running out. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-29-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I myself have been at the disposal of the People's Welfare Committee for six hours, as well as an officer-in-chief doctor for an entire afternoon, the head of the operational staff's on-call centre, the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all of us have been at the committee's disposal. There was no limit, no matter how many questions the members of the committee could ask, and, indeed, a number of questions were asked, the questions that had been raised from you in the last few minutes were asked almost without exception at this committee meeting, and since our response time was unlimited, there was time for us to answer all of these questions. So these questions have been and have been answered by the People's Welfare Committee, honourable Member. The other part of that is how do I put it? Such a motion, such a suggestion, to look at the truth about the coronal virus epidemic, is from Lajos Korózs and Timea Szabó, who themselves in Parliament have referred to a false rescuer's testimony, to his testimony, repeatedly referred to by the entire left from the Financial Times to Euronews to everyone, from Lajos Korózs, your fellow faction, who produced kamuvideo. Now he wants to examine whether they were made by him in the Kamuvideo, which proved that his first sentence was a lie, that he was a medical worker, since he was not registered in any medical staff, that no rescue service had an employee, well, what was said in this video was real. While you admitted that it was untrue because you took the video off the Internet and then tried to explain it, you even took an explanatory statement off the Internet. They would now set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to establish whether or not what you have recognised as false content is real, and that would be investigated by the Hungarian Parliament, honourable Member. This is even weak for a political effort, let alone a public concern here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-178	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in a one-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then you say, Mr. Secretary, that the death of a 33-year-old mother in Esztergom is a fake. The death of a 30-year-old mother in Mátészalka is a fake. The death of a 41 - year - old nurse in Tatabánya is also a fake; or the countless cases we have learned in recent years. Then you say, Mr. Secretary, that this is all bullshit. It is also bogus that 300 billion forints were spent on a ventilator or a ventilator because no one knows yet. They spent 300 billion forints on this, their own secretary of state confessed, and for months we listened to the fact that health care and social care workers were not provided with protective equipment. And it's also bogus that in Debrecen, the largest evacuation in the obstetrics gives a born baby a hospital infection when everything in the hospital is supposed to be disinfected to death. Mr. Secretary, this is all bullshit, isn't it? ! If they have something to fear, they will not support it, if they have nothing to fear, they will support the commission of inquiry. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-29-180	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-29-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Perhaps objectivity would move us forward in this debate. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I was objective!]] Madam Member, what was produced by MSZP with Németh Athina is indeed a fake. In all other cases, where you have raised any questions, you have received answers, and you know it very well, because you personally received an answer here in Parliament a few weeks ago, yet now you speak as if you have not yet received this answer in Parliament. You have also received detailed information that these cases, which you specifically asked about, have been investigated, have been specifically answered. And now you stand up at Parliament's session as if none of this had happened just to make people angry, honourable Member. [[15.20]] Yes, Hungary has spent a huge amount of money on the purchase of ventilators, because we have said that there can be no such case as in Spain and Italy, that people who need a ventilator to help them breathe should not have a sufficient number of ventilators. And we also obtained from protective equipment in the order of millions, tens of millions and hundreds of millions, precisely to ensure that this is available in every Hungarian hospital, every Hungarian institution. I think the effectiveness of defence is shown, honourable Member, by the fact that one third of the number of dead people per million is in Switzerland or Luxembourg or six, as in the Netherlands or the USA. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-182	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: how much damage could Czeglédy have done to Hungarian society? It's an address. Due to the absence of the Minister, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: I accept. Thank you.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-29-183	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the crime of Csaba Czeglédy, the lawyer of Gyurcsány, known to all people, was committed to harm others. Csaba Czeglédy and his associates received a mandate from the representatives of the local government in Szombathely, the Csongrád County Attorney General's Office filed charges for the crime of fiscal fraud and forgery of private documents. According to the indictment filed to the Szeged General Court, Csaba Czeglédy established a criminal organisation linked to Human Operator Zrt. between 2010 and 2017 established a network of companies that dealt with labour placement. This criminal organization caused damage to the Hungarian state for nearly six billion HUF, which was due to the fact that the school associations did not pay the general sales tax and personal income tax. In addition to the state, however, the criminal organisation operated by Czeglédy also harmed the weakest and most defenseless groups of society, students and pensioners financially by failing to pay the wages for their work. Csaba Czeglédy, a victim of his role, is still a cherished favourite of Balliberal parties, since several left-wing municipalities have given the Czeglédy Law Office a multimillion-dollar mandate. It is sad that the left gives a man in a tax evasion position such orders. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I ask how much damage Czeglédy has caused to Hungarian society. Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr. Völner, Minister of State. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Mr President mentioned, Csaba Czeglédy was charged with a criminal offence of fiscal fraud, which caused a particularly significant financial disadvantage, as well as a misdemeanor of the use of false private documents, in February last year. In numerical terms, we are talking more than six billion forints. But Congressman was right to ask, it is not only the damage that can be expressed in forints, but also the eroding that is taking place in this political, social and moral aspect, perhaps even more serious, because the left and DK have still been apologizing, defending this lawyer, and, in practice, filling it with money, whether we look at the new Buda government or even the VII. district government, big assignments, money. One of the contracts that Mayor Péter Niedermüller concluded with the lawyer was, moreover, found that the method of contracting was illegal and called upon the mayor to eliminate the violation of the law. Indeed, the question is why Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party are so protective of a lawyer. Where did the more than six billion forints that disappeared from the budget, since the victims were not reimbursed, it was also necessary for the state. Why have there been tens of millions of friendly loan agreements between the Czeglédy company and the Gyurcsány companies, which also have an unclear origin and why they did so. If people have been damaged, then perhaps they should have been reimbursed, but we know about the Gyurcsánys that they had been towed, pressed, shot with rubber bullets before 2010, the innocent citizens have not changed, unfortunately. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-187	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We all know that silence has a price, and that price is now being paid to DK Czegledy Csaba. Csaba Czeglédy, scientist of all secrets, DK and left treasurer, concludes tens of millions of HUF contracts with DK mayors, and thus essentially Csaba Czeglédy's silence was fully bought by the Democratic Coalition and the Left. Because let us not forget that Csaba Czeglédy not only represented Ferenc Gyurcsány or Altus, but also a number of left-wing politicians, László Botka, and we could list left-wing politicians whose legal representation was represented by Csaba Czeglédy. It is therefore absolutely clear that Csaba Czeglédy's silence had to be paid, and this silence cost the taxpayers tens of millions forints, because the DK municipalities conclude contracts with Csaba Czeglédy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. In return, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State.
u2020-06-29-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It is enough to refer only to the time when the Democratic Coalition recruited Csaba Czeglédy as a candidate for the EU Parliamentary List. For that reason, the candidates who are nominated by a party also bear witness to the quality, quality and moral attitude of the parties. I think they couldn't have chosen a more worthy person in this regard, because the kind of pre-2010 world where mergers and corruption were typical, which they still saved from fiscal fraud after 2010, all testify to the fact that they were birds about their feathers, men about their friends and party candidates. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How can we protect Hungarians from anti-immigration bureaucrats before the Court of Justice of the European Union? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner, Minister of State, granted the right to reply because of his absence. Do you accept the identity of the responder? [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-29-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Court of Justice of the European Union has a large-scale discussion of Hungarian-related matters. Faced with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, he declared detention in an emergency procedure in the transit zone at the Hungarian border. Similarly, a few days ago, the Advocate General of the Court of Justice took a position in another case concerning the legal border closure, and this time the practice of monitoring the other side of the border fence was also contested. The court ruled on our law on transparency of NGOs supported from abroad, where it found that the objective of increasing the transparency of association funding was not contrary to EU law. This afternoon, the court will hold a hearing on the matter in which Hungary has initiated the annulment of the resolution of the European Parliament which opened the Article 7 procedure. The Sargentini report on the basis of the decision is full of lies and slides, and the decision of the European Parliament is a textbook example of bias and double standards. However, today's negotiation is not primarily important, and Article 7 is subject to the alleged threat of harm to the fundamental values of the EU, including the rule of law. At the hearing, the accused and accused of the proceedings under Article 7 will exchange seats, and now it can finally be seen that the EU institutions consider themselves bound by the principles of the rule of law which are so enthusiastic about respect for others. This is a fundamental credibility issue for the EU's rule of law initiatives. In the light of all this, I ask the Secretary of State how they can protect Hungarians from pro-immigration bureaucrats before the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it was a rather strange decision when the European Court of Human Rights, the most initiated organization, finds that if a person is in the transit zone at the Hungarian border, it does not qualify as detention, and then, on the basis of the Commission's accusations, the Court of Luxembourg states that this is detention. What can we do at this hour? We look outwards, we are surprised that politics can override the fundamental human rights standards and international conventions that the Strasbourg court has decided for our benefit at second instance, but in front of the Grand Chamber. [[15.30]] This does not interest Brussels, it does not care about Luxembourg, it is basically the series of attacks that are being carried out on the issue of migration against Hungary. The other interesting thing that is actually being discussed today is about the circumstances under which the Sargentini report was voted. Revealing the events at that time: On 12 September 2018, the members of the European Parliament cast 448 votes, 197 negative votes and 48 abstentions. The two-thirds support required for adoption would have required two thirds of the 693 votes cast, i.e. at least 462 votes in favour. The EU Treaties, the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and its practice so far clearly support this position. But if one does not want to be absorbed in the analysis of legal texts, it is enough to take a look at the European Parliament's voting machine. One MEP may press three buttons, i.e. give three votes: yes, no and abstention. And anyone who doesn't want to vote doesn't press either button, and there was such an MEP in September 2018. If we go through this, and according to all the moldings, the vote that remains is a vote, it was decided, however, that it did not matter, and that it was forced to have a two-thirds ratio. What do we say to that? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You're entitled to a re-election, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-195	Thank you very much. The transit zone, which arose here in the first half of the question, was a solution that guaranteed the application for asylum in accordance with the Geneva Convention, while at the same time protecting Hungary and Europe from illegal immigrants. The European Court of Human Rights in the case of Ilias and Ahmed v Hungary, second instance, stated that the transit zone was not a place of custody, but a place of administration. With the decision of the European Court of Justice, the strange situation now arose that, say, in Switzerland or Norway, a transit zone is a legal solution, whereas it is not a legal solution in any European Union country. What we need to see here is that this is not primarily a debate between Hungary and the European Court of Justice, but a debate between the two courts. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is indeed the dispute between the two courts; and the reason why this action by the Commission on border surveillance is saddening is because we know that the Hungarian Fundamental Law also includes that we can decide who we want to live with in a country. If the Court of Luxembourg decided to comply with the Commission's action, it would mean that we should go through Hungarian legislation in accordance with this decision, which means that the Commission would write the text of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. This is an interesting point from a sovereignty point of view, and perhaps the other Member States would be shocked to have such consequences. So I think that everyone should think about this area and go through it, and the boundaries of the relationship system of fundamental laws vs. EU legislation should be drawn up sharply, and stealth legislation will have to end once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-198	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Are you ready to govern in accordance with the wishes of the Hungarian people if this comes into an open conflict with Brussels? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner, Minister of State, granted the right to reply because of his absence. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Mónika Bartos: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2020-06-29-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! We have had difficult times, because in recent months we have experienced situations that we have never before, but thank God, we are past the emergency, and in this situation the Hungarian government, in cooperation with Hungarian people, has done well internationally. This good performance was based on a trust relationship that worked back and forth, because people trusted the government that its decisions were right, and the government trusted people to cooperate in its decisions and to help the government implement them. That was the basis for success. That is why it is painful that the left has done everything to undermine the authority of the government in front of the people during the coronal virus epidemic, and unfortunately this process is continuing with regard to the national consultation, as we also hear manifestations in the left-wing press or left-wing Members that the consultation seeking people's opinion is nothing more than a communist propaganda tool. Meanwhile, it can also be seen that Brussels has also woken up again and attacked the consultation because of its question on migration. But we must not forget that, according to the repeatedly expressed will of Hungarian citizens, the Government has laid down in the Fundamental Law the legal framework for immigration in Hungary, and although Věra Jourová, Vice-President of the Commission, tries to underline that it does not go against this kind of will of the people, it does not go against the Hungarian Basic Law, yet it keeps the migrant quota and its idea on the agenda, and we can also see that many representatives and parties of the left also want to prevent this from happening. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In view of the merger between Brussels and the left, I ask Mr Secretary of State that the government should make the effort to represent the will of the people at all costs in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-200	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If I were to respond briefly, then, of course, the government will do everything in its power to govern according to the wishes of the Hungarian people, perhaps since 2010, we have been able to prove this on several lines, taking up the conflicts with Brussels, Strasbourg or other issues, in practice, so that we can represent the kind of values that Hungarian people want to see in Hungary. We understand that the EU's Treaty also ensures the protection of national identity, not so far as we are illegally standing up for these values within the EU, and we really want to prevent them from changing their ethnic proportions, cultural habits, whether they are related to crime, terrorism or the issue of drug use or gender identity; so we have strong, established social standards in them, and we will not allow anyone to change them. It is very interesting that I do not like to use this, but if we think that Věra Jourová, when we adopted the emergency package of laws, said that Hungary has to be examined very much, that a dictatorship is being built here, and then back home he said that there is practically no problem with Hungarian legislation, that this law stands the test, went back to Brussels, attacked it, said immediately that he was monitoring it more, and then said that the national consultation was false, fake news claims that the Commission wanted to change the Fundamental Law. We can see that this attack in the Court of Luxembourg is precisely about the desire to change the provisions of the Fundamental Law. It's an open political fight they want to cover up on a party basis, just think back on Timmermans, or Juncker, or anyone. So this goes on. This has nothing to do with the law, the facts, we have to deal with this, but we're not giving up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-202	Thank you very much for your answer. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-203	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I agree with you, too, that we are on the scene of an open battle, and it has also been pointed out by the true Secretary of State that we are subject to a concept from above that wants to change European culture irreversibly. At the same time, we have seen in recent months that, for example, national governments have been able to respond to real action in the event of an emergency, so it was not the European Union that helped us and helped people, but the Hungarian government. I think that cooperation between the government and the Hungarian people is the key to success, and the new element of this cooperation is the national consultation, which I think is a very important part of building the future, and I encourage everyone to participate in it. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2020-06-29-204	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, in these areas, the political debate between the parties of government and the opposition is now emerging around the national consultation. I am very sorry that the opposition not only has no answers to these situations, but has no good questions, and there were no partners during the epidemic. It is practically much more important for them that the government's credibility, governance, will be hindered and destroyed than that Hungary should be a prosperous, prosperous country, where we could at least cooperate in good things, and, in times of epidemic, let us say, not in the direction of rumors and false news production, such as that which our colleague Lajos Korózs openly took under his wing, and then everyone stepped back with one, as if it were not to completely undermine the credibility of the government. I very much hope that a time will come when, as Prime Minister, there will also be statesmen in the opposition. [[Interview from the LMP lines: Yikes! Dániel Z. Carpathian: A little more modest...!]] I'll be able to refer to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-206	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:40 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation and a question, these items will not be discussed. [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Following the submission of a proposal on Hungary's central budget for 2021... [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes.]] Dear Congresswoman, If you don't mind my saying so, I'd appreciate it if you'd let me run the next agenda. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports and the draft amending proposal are currently under discussion. The submission was submitted in T-10710. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was carried out by the committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/10710/828. T/10710/829. The reports of the committees related to the debate are available on the IT network, as well as on numbers T/10710/812-827, 830, 831 and 832. Dear Parliament, T/10710/834. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/10710/835. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. I would like to remind you that, according to the provisions of the House Rules, the rapporteur of the committee, with a summary of the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions expressed in writing, can speak within a total of 60 minutes of time, with 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2020-06-29-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us the bill of the central budget for 2021, the general discussion of which took place between 10 and 12 June in a 30-hour timeframe. The Budget Act was also discussed by all the standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. As rapporteur for the designated committee, I hereby present their views. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Law, so the bill meets the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system, complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. So for those committees who have not made specific comments, I'm just going to say that. Opinions of the negotiating committees. On the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, the budget for 2021 presented by the Government is focused on the re-launch of the situation of the coronal virus epidemic and the maintenance of the epidemiological preparedness and the preservation of the results achieved jointly over the last ten years. We can conclude that the government will also help to remove obstacles to childbearing in 2021, to create its own home, and to recognise the extra efforts of large families. In 2021, nearly HUF 2295 billion is available to support families. This is more than HUF 67 billion higher than the subsidies in the 2020 budget. Compared to 2010, the government spends nearly two and a half times more on supporting Hungarian families, with a total of HUF 1360 billion. Next year, the home protection and home creation program, the village CSOK, will continue. Families with one child can receive a HUF 1 million credit from their mortgage-based loan debt for the second child, and for families with additional children the amount that can be deducted from the loan debt for the third child will be HUF 4 million through state support. Like we always said, when there's work, there's everything. In this spirit, the creation and retention of jobs is another priority objective of the current budget. As a third element, I would like to draw attention to the new family and pension protection programme, which will be extended in 2021. This new element is the restoration of the 13th month pension. This will happen at four paces. As a first step, pensioners will receive a one-week pension in 2021, in addition to the January pension. After that, pensioners will receive a full one-month pension over three years, i.e. from 2024 onwards. Given that the government planned the budget for next year by 4.8 percent, we expect it to also be possible to provide a pension premium next year. The amount of budgetary resources that can be spent on retirement benefits will be nearly HUF 327 billion higher next year than this year. The 2021 budget calculates inflation of 3 per cent, so the amount of pension benefits is expected to increase by this. As a result of disease control and economic protection measures, such as the wage support programme and tax cuts, budget deficits and public debt will be higher than previously planned in 2020. By the end of 2021, however, the total national product is expected to fall to 69,3%, from 72,6% by the end of 2020. At the same time, the general government deficit will not exceed 3 percent of the total national product next year as usual in recent years. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade's operating budget will increase in 2021, above 2020 compared to the expected growth in national goods, the operating budget of foreign representations will increase beyond inflation, and the staff allowances and accumulation expenses of the Information Office will increase in particular. The Ministry's central administration and the staff allowances of some 1,500 diplomats on the external service are also available at a higher rate than this year. [[15.50]] The institutional system of export development and investment promotion, i.e. the Hungarian Export Development Agency, the National Investment Agency and the Central European Economic Development Network, will receive the same support next year as this year, adjusted by the inflation planned for 3 percent. The successful Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, the economic development programmes for the preservation of foreign national parts, and the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme launched this year will continue. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade prepared for the challenges of the post-coronal virus pandemic world after 2020 in 2021. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. In the last year Hungary has chosen the path of the future, namely climate protection, energy sovereignty and green economic growth. The excellent Hungarian climate performance of recent years teaches us that the objectives of environmental protection, economic development and energy security are not conflicting, but even mutually reinforcing goals. The government has adopted the principles of a long-term climate strategy for 2050. Based on this, a strategy has been put in place for Hungary to gradually become a climate neutral country by 2050. Our country is at the forefront of the EU in achieving the emissions reduction targets we have undertaken. In view of the future, the aim is the climate-neutral transformation of the economy. The government supports the renewable energy production of small and medium-sized enterprises with almost HUF 32 billion, investments aimed at the climate-neutral transformation of domestic owned enterprises and the economy. Under the climate and nature conservation action plan, green government bonds will be issued to finance projects to reduce the negative effects of climate change. This step is also a good example of how a sovereign nation state can proactively act in the area of climate protection at European level. The costs of the climate-neutral economy must be paid to climate-destructives, i.e. large polluting countries and large polluting companies. According to statistics for 2018, 43.5 percent of the Union's CO2 emissions were caused by the three largest pollutants, Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy. However, the former socialist countries only account for one fifth of the total emissions of the community, more than two thirds of which were caused by Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania together. Hungary's annual CO2 emissions per capita are 5.4 tonnes, so the country accounts for only 1.4 percent of the total Community emissions. The government's aim is to ensure that the 2021 budget will continue to ensure the coordinated use of resources for research, development and innovation in support of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy next year. One of the tools for this is the operation of a single National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. The second is the operation of the energy and climate modernisation system through the Economic Protection Fund. For this purpose, a source of HUF 34.3 billion will be available in 2021. Support for waste management tasks, the budget for 2021 is 14 billion HUF 438.2 million. The focus of energy policy is on ensuring Hungary's secure energy supply at all times, sustainability taking into account consumer strength and competitiveness. Next year, the central and municipal subsystems will have nearly HUF 500 billion available for energy and climate modernisation. In addition, we will spend more than HUF 500 billion next year on environmental protection, financing projects to reduce the negative effects of climate change, thanks to the successful issuance of green government bonds. Opinion of the Economic Committee. The budget for 2021 focuses on the prevention of the epidemic and the re-launch of the economy in difficulty caused by the coronal virus epidemic. The Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund shall include the resources necessary for the control of the disease and the operation of the health care system. Another goal of the government is to create at least as many new jobs as the epidemic has destroyed. The budget will provide funding for priority programmes, development, investment and measures to promote employment in the next year, through the Economic Protection Fund, for more than HUF 2550 billion. In the 2021 budget, some HUF 2115 billion will be available for health purposes. This is nearly HUF 918 billion higher than the last budget submitted by left-wing governments in 2010, and it is about HUF 156 billion higher than the amount of expenditure spent this year. We want to protect the results of the Hungarian economy from the effects of the coronal virus epidemic; the necessary resources have been provided. Opinion of the National Security Committee. The 2021 central budget will also be a budget for families and security next year, while paying particular attention to mitigating the effects of the pandemic on our whole world in Hungary. In a short time, the government was able to put a comprehensive economic protection action plan on the table, which is sustainable in the long term and substantially mitigates the spill-over of the negative economic effects of the pandemic to Hungary. At the same time, however, the government did not forget to provide all the necessary resources and to ensure that our internal security is maintained and that our borders are effectively protected against illegal migration. In 2021, Hungary will spend HUF 93 billion more on law enforcement than this year. Compared to 2010, we spend some HUF 504 billion more on the operation of law enforcement. These budgetary increases contribute to Hungary's ability to protect its external borders and guarantee our internal security in a more efficient way in our world with security risks. For the National Security Committee, it is quite clear that security is a fundamental national value, from which the government must not give in, because there is no peace without security, no economic development without security, and without security, a country's everyday life becomes unpredictable. In view of all of this, we note that the 2021 budget bill will not only contribute to supporting families and protecting the Hungarian economy, but also its appropriations for civil and military services will ensure the full fulfilment of the statutory tasks of the secret services, thus enabling the country to defend its borders in the fight against illegal migration and to respond in time to unexpected security risk factors in Europe. [[16.00]] The Defence Committee, the People's Welfare Committee, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, the Judicial Committee did not give a separate opinion, they only found that the law complied with the legal requirements. Opinion of the Cultural Committee. In the budget, there will be some HUF 70 billion more in the budget for education, and the budget figures in the cultural area will remain unchanged despite the crisis. The government has expressed its intention to support the cultural sector. Opinion of the Committee on Agriculture. As you can see, there have been changes in the structure of the 2021 budget compared to so far, so the National Agricultural Supports and the Irrigation Development subtitle is XLVII. Chapter 3, the Economic Fund, which provides the necessary cover for the continuation of programmes relating to the protection and re-launch of the economy, priority developments, investments and measures to promote employment. In 2021, agricultural and rural development subsidies could be paid for HUF 782 billion, of which HUF 94 billion, EU co-financed market support, HUF 29.5 billion, direct grants financed purely by the EU, HUF 455 billion, the EU co-financed rural development programme and the Hungarian fish management operational programme will be available for a total of HUF 203 billion. The sub-heading of the National Agricultural Aids was set at HUF 78.5 billion in the 2021 budget proposal, which includes, in addition to the appropriations for previous national agricultural subsidies, the farm development programme, the closed garden programme and the support for livestock production. It is important that the resources available for agriculture and environmental protection go beyond the previous year. As we can see, this increase is particularly appreciated in the light of the current situation. The 2021 draft budget provides significant additional resources to Hungarian agriculture players compared to previous ones, but mainly compared to previous budgets before 2010, and can continue to provide stability to the sector. It can be concluded that from the budgetary side, the resources necessary for further good functioning are available. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. Hungary's central budget for 2021 ensures the continuity of the national political programmes launched in 2010; it aims to strengthen the Hungarian nation both in the Carpathian Basin and in the Diaspora. The Government of Hungary also provides a secure framework for supporting foreign families in the next year's budget, ensuring the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses across borders, developing culture and education, strengthening Hungarian communities. The successful national unification programmes will continue, including the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the Petőfi Sándor programme. For the second year now, support for the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme has been under the control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Unfortunately, before the program was launched, Csángó Land was one of the most neglected parts of the nation. This year's €532 million appropriation will increase to HUF 1 billion 500 million next year, which will greatly contribute to the development of Csángóföld with other Hungarian areas. Support for cross-border economic development programmes within the Economic Protection Fund also works under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. This has led to unprecedented enterprise development projects in recent years, which have contributed significantly to the creation of a single economic space in the Carpathian Basin. So far, this support has reached many farming families and entrepreneurs. From small amounts of agricultural and business development aid to large, complex investments, everyone could find their calculations among the opportunities offered by the mother country. Finally, the support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, with this framework, can be used for various national policy programmes, including the support of the Rákóczi Association with a long history, and the, without limit! Support for the programme. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. Since 2010, Hungary has stabilised its financial position, managed responsible fiscal management, maintained a persistently low deficit in public finances, put government debt on a declining path and achieved sustained economic growth. However, the coronal virus epidemic has posed an unprecedented challenge for our country recently. In recent months, the government has taken a number of extraordinary measures to protect people's lives, the economy, jobs and families. Based on these measures, Hungary's budget proposal for 2021 was also prepared. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The budget proposal shows that the government's priority is to allow the Hungarian economy to return to an outstanding growth path at European level as soon as possible, which has been achieved over the past ten years. The first priority is the protection of Hungarian people's jobs and the creation of new jobs, because we know that we have experienced: if there is work, then there is everything. Together, the measures of the Economic Protection Action Plan move about 20 percent of the Hungarian national product, while ensuring the preservation of the country's economic sovereignty. It is welcome that the government is responding to labour market difficulties not with aid, tax increases and austerity, but with a complex action plan aimed at job creation, wage support and re-launching the economy. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that the budget submitted by the Government for 2021 is a set of measures that respond quickly and effectively to the crisis and help the recovery of the economy, which serves the interests of the national economy. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. The total amount of EU funds will be around HUF 1605 billion for Hungary next year, both through investment and structural funds in the budget and direct agricultural subsidies outside the budget. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. And before I thank you for your attention, I would also like to thank the Ministry of Finance and all the ministries here for the fact that, in the spring period, the draft budget law for next year was prepared in spite of the outbreak of the Crown Virus. I wish you every success and good health for this work, and thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-208	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. I salute my fellow Members, Mr Banai Secretary of State. The minority opinions will now be presented, which will be presented by five Members within a total timeframe of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2020-06-29-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The budget, as the most important law of the year, which concerns all of us and everyone, is indeed important for this law to include minority opinions. [[16.10]] It is not only because 2020 and 2021 will be a special year from this point of view, since this year must be combined with an economic crisis that has an impact on 2021. For this reason, we would like to present to you the opinions that have appeared in the Commission's debates, shared with each other, with the intention and the hope that we should draw attention to the fact that more than 800 amendments have otherwise been voted off by the majority of governments, and you have done this wrong. They were wrong because they refused to take into account virtually one amendment and did not even realize that there were initiatives that went beyond the huge difference and debate between the two sides. I say, between the two sides, because it is the debate of the governing party and the opposition that is now appearing in this form, at least certainly in the four amendments that appear in spite of thinking about various economic systems and budgetary policies, and yet are here as an amendment. We will also want to highlight these four areas in detail. At the same time, however, it is worth going around a little bit about how the government is dealing with the day-to-day management of the economic crisis, so I would say, but there are a number of criticisms, and it is therefore doubtful how it can reduce the impact of next year, how it can get ahead of this. In addition, there is also a 2020 amendment, which has been seriously debated as to the extent to which the 2020 economic downturn could be. Apparently, the government's uncertainty and lack of professional preparation could not exceed the uncertainty of what they were really expecting. Also in the Convergence Programme, which was published at the same time as the budget negotiations, three scenarios are presented there, creating uncertainty not only on their own but also apparently not being able to decide which direction to move in. While, of course, all Members of Parliament are interested in and rooting for the minimum possible economic downturn and the fastest possible catch-up to this work, the criticism that appears in these minority opinions cannot be silenced: indeed, the delay of the government has taken a great deal of work for this year, and this is particularly reflected in the plans for the following year. I therefore believe that in these minority opinions it is general that the government has submitted this budget at the wrong time, and this includes the fact that several ministers or speakers have acknowledged here that the uncertainty I have referred to has contributed to the fact that more people wanted to review it, and perhaps the submission in September would have given farmers much more opportunities in the first place. The government's will wouldn't let me do that. We had to file this. With regard to social impacts, for example, in these minority opinions in the Committee on Budgets, we wanted a real social picture of the territory of the municipalities, of the health sector, of employment. I regret to say that, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, the majority of the government did not allow the mayors who were present to speak and would have contributed to the experience of what has to be dealt with either this year or next year. Instead, all we had to hear was how much savings the municipalities had in themselves, and the Prime Minister pointed to this today, while, by the way, this affects a fraction of the 3200 municipalities, if they do have savings, but unfortunately, I did not get the exact answer from the Ministry of Finance. These amendments, which were in general in the joint representation of opposition factions, as I said, were voted down. In addition, it is unacceptable to point out that only one amending proposal has been rejected to assist in the administration of optional vaccines. I regret to say that when their budget for MTVA was increased by HUF 20 billion, they refused to support the HUF 20 billion that could be used for this vaccine during the same period. Two questions have certainly remained unclear. I mentioned one: how much money is available in the municipalities? And the other part is the same in terms of debt. With Mr State Secretary, we have had a long debate about the fact that the local government's account debt does amount to HUF 1200 billion, which has accumulated since consolidation. With all due respect, I suggest that you respond to these questions, minority opinions, in this period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-29-210	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2020-06-29-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr President has said, the opposition groups have tabled more than 800 amendments, of which unfortunately none was considered to be supported by the pro-government majority at the Commission stage. Several opinions from the pro-government committee members have been expressed that there are many amendments, and because they are voted by the committee in a package, they cannot be selected which would be good for supporting it. However, the opposition groups have also made joint amendments, which I think is a clear indication that we also have proposals which we consider to be of particular importance. Well, I think you could have at least supported these, honourable Members. For example, the joint opposition amendment to the pension, in which the minimum amount of the old-age pension minimum we have proposed could not be less than HUF 80 thousand, and the total amount of the old-age pension could not be less than that. Just think, the government hasn't increased the minimum retirement pension for ten years, it's been 28 500 forints! I have said many times within the walls of this House that it is also up to the opposition to draft proposals, and this is part of democracy, that we can submit proposals, maintain them, and even request a separate vote. True, it seems to me that many of you are sometimes annoyed by this, and that is usually shown by some, even though, in order to maintain the remaining crumbs of democracy, some proposals could be adopted. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] Or not, it's true. Unfortunately, after studying the budget, it becomes apparent that the government is still not sufficiently aware of the gravity of the climate and the ecological crisis, since there is hardly any element that would really help to curb climate change, and even seems to be a step backwards from previous years, since there are items that have been consolidated or eliminated. Therefore, it seems that the expected turn of the green will still have to wait, even though we know that we cannot continue where we left off before the outbreak. The 2021 budget should serve green and reconstruction. The first thing to do is to stop the social crisis, raising vital social benefits and public service workers' wages. Let us think of social workers or civil servants, but unfortunately, it is not appropriate to pay at the level of civil servants. [[16.20]] The current part of the budget for agriculture preserves current situations, but will not be able to sustain them in the long term. It continues to focus on the interests of so-called green barons and industrial farming and maintain a favourable environment for them. Unfortunately, it does not take into account the deterioration in the quality of the soil, the decline in its water retention capacity and the lack of preference for local products and the economy based on local trade. However, I hope that our common goal is to keep our country alive in this uncertain period of crisis, to preserve our forests, our good quality agricultural land, our waters, our natural values, biodiversity, to ensure the conditions of a peaceful, democratic, just society. Unfortunately, the current budget is expected to have exactly the opposite effect. Nature, if we completely destroy it, may not be able to give us another opportunity. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-212	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi.
u2020-06-29-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now, in the overall assessment of minority opinions, it is worth looking back at the events of the last few weeks, which have taken place here in the general debate or in the Commission stage. As we have said in the general debate, this budget is a budget of revenge, revenge against the municipalities. You were always wagging your heads at the committee stage when we said this and described it as a minority opinion. But you can see the road roller that has started with you in the budget amendments that have been submitted. More than 800 amendments were tabled by opposition representatives, of which only 456 by Jobbik's group were tabled. You did not find one piece of this suitable for support, and you said that you would not do so, otherwise you can agree with most of the goals, but we have repeatedly exceeded the framework that the opposing leg otherwise allows. The point is that we have put a palette, a selection, in front of you, to see how we imagine the budget for 2021. Obviously, we know that if it is available for government communication for HUF 23.9 billion, it is possible to take a maximum of HUF 23.9 billion from it. But, yes, we think that this is much, much better than the goals of raising the amount of the school programme, or raising the amount of children's homes, or, if you look at it, supporting the local government sector. Here I would like to move on to an area that I would like to present as a minority opinion. So the local government is the last bastion of democracy. I think we can all accept this, both on the pro-government and on the opposition side. But what you plan to do by 2021 is to completely block and bleed out. I know you don't like these words, and you don't agree with them, but here in the opposition benches we see that by increasing the solidarity contribution, i.e. reducing the tax capacity per municipality, there will be more municipalities involved, and in the event of the total withdrawal of the vehicle tax in 2021, there will be municipalities that will take away their only own revenue. This is unacceptable to us. The joint amendment tabled in this connection, together with the members of the Committee on the Budget, would have proposed that 100% of the car tax should reach the municipalities. Why do we think that's important? Because this car tax would cover the renovation and maintenance of locally used roads on site, but if you involve it, it could be used for other purposes, which we do not think will be used locally. We think it would be very important for them to see that the measures that local elected mayors and representatives wish to take there in the interest of their settlement are in the interests of the people in the settlement. Therefore, when we talk about the fact that the solidarity contribution, which, according to the calculations, will be paid by 700-800 municipalities in 2021, is supported by settlements where there may not be any own revenue for development. Yes, but the use of locally produced forints is most effective. And the fact that you guys are gonna tell us how to spend it, we know how it's gonna work out. After October 13, we see the trend during the municipal elections that opposition-led settlements are being pushed into the background. What is also an important and important aspect here with regard to local governments, is that if we look at... By the way, I abstained from the introduction of one of the pro-government amendments because the programme was increased by HUF 50 billion, which I consider to be very useful and very important. Of course, there were elements in it, which Mr President also pointed out, that the public media budget is being increased by HUF 20 billion, which is totally unacceptable. However, the Hungarian village programme can indeed be a good program, but if they go to the right place, and not by backing up the representative bodies with opposition mayors and independent mayors. We hope that these proposals will indeed go there, but, once again, we cannot agree with both the total amount of the car tax and the extent of the solidarity contribution, and are deeply ashamed that this amending budget has not been found fit for debate and that this has not been supported in the Committee on Budgets. Of course, we asked for this in today's vote, so here all 133 people will be able to vote on whether or not the municipalities are on their side. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2020-06-29-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the difference of opinion between us is basically a different picture of the country, which my opposition colleagues have already talked about. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks.]] The amendment bouquet we submitted together with the opposition factions... Dear colleague, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, I know that you are very strong in this genre, in yelling, but I think you will have the opportunity to present your opinion in a speech. So I think it's appropriate to leave the word to the person who's talking. I'll thank you for keeping this. So, as I began to talk about what the opposition's amendments mean: a completely different economic strategy planning direction, my fellow Members, and a different type of social organisation offer. What has been drawn from the budget proposal or draft submitted by the government for years? The fact that our fellow countrymen suffer from the poverty of their workers on a number of occasions who have served their fellow countrymen, whether in terms of public service, but especially in terms of health care workers. This is why I have the task of explaining, among the opposition's joint amendments, the question of the permanent wage arrangement of health workers, because we can see that 26 thousand people are missing from sick beds, and, in most cases, the waist of the profession, as I would say. The Ministry of Human Resources is undoubtedly right to involve young people in this profession, which is, by the way, one of the most beautiful professions, that our patients, our unborn children, mothers who are trying to bring their children to health, to serve them in our health institutions, this is a great situation that more young people would like to be involved in this profession. However, when they meet the health wages that we are facing in Hungary today, they have two paths. Or here on the Hungarian labour market they are looking for some other work in order that, when it comes to caring for their own families, in their 30s, their 40s, they cannot do this, my honourable pro-government fellow Members. That is why we are confronted with the fact that health workers in this age group are largely absent from patients who need them in hospitals. Therefore, we have made a proposal together with fellow opposition Members. That's not why the system of gratuity is independent. These people are regularly humiliated in their daily work by the fact that, by the way, our fellow citizens know that their remuneration is not sufficient in terms of the amount of service they undertake, so they try to make up for their wages in many cases. But I can't do this. It's not some sort of waitressing, it's not your tip system. It is simply necessary to pay fairly those who, by the way, stood or failed in our previous months to see this country in May, June, after the coronal virus epidemic, in what state we find it after the wave. [[16.30]] Therefore, the amending proposal sought to remedy this. He wanted to remedy it so that these health workers could be paid a fair wage. It costs exactly more than 285 billion forints. We know that this is a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen, but we thought that you spent a lot of money on a lot of things, just in theory, which we consider useless. For example, we would like to draw a significant part of the amount for hunting exhibitions linked to Zsolt Semjén on these sources. Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. We envisaged a capital increase or a 30% reduction in reserves. And there are a lot of these items in this budget. The Budapest-Belgrád railway is our old debate. We believe that this will not pay back for our country. At the same time, it always pays a country to invest enough in health and education, both in terms of human resources and in terms of asset supply. I think that it is true, both for the education system and for the health system, that here our fellow countrymen who worked and served in them tried to keep them to the end. I don't think I can do this. With this amendment, we wanted to address the problems of our doctors and nurses. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-29-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll tell Congressman Attila Mesterházy that 21 minutes of 30 minutes have passed and you have nine minutes.
u2020-06-29-217	Thank you very much. My colleagues were very economic about time at the time, and it's usually the other way around that those who are at the end can speak little. So thank you very much for your patience and attention. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A budget is always a value choice, it shows which values are the most important for a particular government or a particular party, where it wants to provide greater help and where it wants to squeeze. Although this word is eroded from fidesz communication, no one can ever use it to say that, while we have read the current budget, we have seen that there are a lot of restrictions being applied by the government, in areas where people would most rely on the government's help. For example, the world of work, state aid for job search opportunities. It is no coincidence that opposition parties have set the objective of extending the duration of the job search option as one of the priority topics. This was one of the main pillars of the joint amendment tabled by the opposition. We believe that, in three months' time of peace, a job cannot be found within a given framework, let alone in the midst of economic difficulties caused by an epidemic. For this reason, we thought that, in the face of an unpredictable circumstance such as this epidemic, which no one has faced, this treatment was much more difficult than that of many other crises for which there is already a recipe for a solution. If we even consider that there may be a second wave of the current epidemic, as experts in many places in the world actually treat as a consensus that diseases may increase during the autumn, and that they may result in another economic shutdown, that God saves us from this, well, under these circumstances such opposition proposals have a place in the budget, there is a place in the policy proposals, so that we increase the duration of the job search from three months to nine months. And it would also be okay if it were raised to 85 percent of the wage, or, as we put it, to double the minimum wage, because it would certainly involve people who have already lost their jobs in a kind of safety net. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] This is important because here in the debate it has been said many times that you want to create jobs and not give aid. But what they didn't realize, more precisely, is why they didn't want to notice that from the opposition side, no one criticized the government's desire to create jobs, where appropriate, by dynamicising the economy or by other means, with active-passive means. This is right and good, and we ourselves think that it is good to have a decent job, and it is even better to get decent wages for it, so that your family can make a living, and so many problems do not affect the family. But there are living situations, there are families in Hungary who have lost their jobs, and they can't find jobs that quickly for themselves. Today, my fellow chef recommended to the Prime Minister the company of such a company, Lőrinc Mészáros, who is such a national capitalist, a national oligarch, so fond of the fate of the Hungarian nation that he quickly dismissed almost a thousand people, and fired 850 people, Lőrinc Mészáros. But he actually received the reward for this, because after firing 850 people, two positive things happened in his life immediately afterwards, he could take up 11 billion forints of dividends in the spirit of national solidarity, because the family is the first, especially when it comes to his own family, and then his company received almost 18 billion forints of development. In Hungarian, while a person dismisses his employees, he receives state aid for development, and in the meantime he hires 11 billion forints for his own family. For example, in such cases, when Lőrinc Mészáros could have made 850 families a runaway, and these people certainly find it difficult to find work in the tourism sector easily in the coming weeks or months, we think that it makes sense, it is important to extend this opportunity, and the duration and amount of unemployment benefit should be extended. In my view, the government has the same responsibility and deficiency with regard to pensioners, so another opposition proposal aimed at making the minimum amount of the old-age pension 80 thousand forints, since the minimum pension has been 28 500 forints for several years. Of course, it would be worth changing that, since older people, young people too, have deserved to live in a slightly easier and better environment. I can therefore say to you, as a minority opinion, that instead of a hit-and-run, as we consider this to be a hit-and-run budget, they abandon a lot of entrepreneurs, a lot of Hungarian workers, a lot of Hungarian families, so instead of a hit-and-run budget, we would need a budget for reconstruction. This is what the opposition spoke about in the budgetary debate, and made proposals on how Hungary could be redesigned, rebuilt so that it could be much better held up or better coped, if any, with another crisis caused by a virus, how to make Hungary more competitive for the post-crisis period, as recovery is also a kind of competition in the international system, and then, in the period after that, companies, countries and players compete with each other for market opportunities. Indeed, Hungary would have had the opportunity to rethink the structure of the Hungarian economy and its operating power if they wanted to rebuild it. It seems that the government will return to the same place where it was before the crisis, namely: it will scatter Hungarian taxpayers' forints to its favourite industries, its favourite entrepreneurs, or even EU funds, instead of supporting this restructuring in a targeted way. Overall, I would like to conclude with what I started: since all budgets are value choices, this is what it is. It is clear that for you, friends, oligarchs, families of your own are more important than Hungarian workers, Hungarian pensioners, Hungarian families, because of the budget and proposals made by the opposition, they did not accept anything. [[16.40]] As my fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn said, almost a thousand, 800-something proposals were made by the opposition. The government, the Fidesz majority, did not find one thing worthy of support, which I think it is not very difficult to see, that none of the eight hundred proposals were considered to be suitable for supporting it, either in their own name; that if you are disturbed by the fact that it was submitted by an opposition representative, they would take it into their own name and make it happen. This increase in unemployment benefit could certainly have been such a proposal, and, of course, there is still a need to create jobs, create as many jobs or even more jobs as it has ceased to exist, and I fully agree with that, but it is probably not going to be magical, it does not go from one moment to the next, and it is therefore necessary to rebuild rather than hit-and-run. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let's choose. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-06-29-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author, Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, now or at the end... [[For signal:]] In the end, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The representative of nationality invited by the nationality committee is now taking place within a five-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Commission President Ritter Imre.
u2020-06-29-219	[[A portable microphone is placed in front of the congressman.]] Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. President, but I don't have a microphone. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine vorige Rede bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T-10710. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen beende. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to conclude today, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, in the second-reading debate on the 2021 Central Budget, my comments on the national needs of the 2021 Central Budget Act. At its meeting on 10 June 2020, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed T/10710. the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021, its nationality requirements. The NEB submitted T/10710/829 on the basis of a detailed discussion by the Commission. This included a total surplus of HUF 1.1 billion and a textual amendment proposal. Unfortunately, the Government did not support the Committee's proposal for a quantitative amendment, so the Committee on Budgets did not accept the amendments to this effect. At the same time, amendment 5 of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the intention to amend the text, in response to a separate vote, found government support and was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting, thus being included in the summary amendment proposal. On this basis, the rules laid down in the Budget Act for the promotion of local and regional self-governments would be amended as follows:. The appropriation should be divided between the municipal and regional self-governments on the basis of the number of municipalities, in such a way that the number of local authorities should be taken into account twice. In relation to the task-based support of local and regional self-governments, the amount of task-based support shall be multiplied by the number of task points determined in accordance with point 2.4.3 and the specific amount of support determined in accordance with point 2.3.1. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this way, it was possible, given the task-based support of county and Budapest's regional minority self-governments, to carry out significant additional tasks compared to the municipal minority self-governments, in line with the rules of previous years, to provide a double-tasking score, i.e. a double-subsidisation amount for the regional minority self-governments. We consider this a very important step and result. As regards the budget for 2021, in my speeches during the general debate, I explained in detail the merits of the budget needs that are not now supported. We know that the health and economic emergency caused by the Covid-19 virus is a significant burden for Hungary, and therefore, although we are not happy with the lack of support this time, we accept it disciplinefully. We sincerely hope that both the improvement of the health situation and the rapid recovery of the economy, for which we will be working, will bring about a situation as soon as possible that will enable the settlement of the needs of the nationalities that have now been postponed but are well founded. I wish everyone good health and a successful second half of 2020. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-06-29-220	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, Fidesz.
u2020-06-29-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because, at the meeting of the budget for 2021, I wanted to mention the programme of the Hungarian village in the framework of another speech, and that is because there was an amendment proposal, which increased the budget line in the Economic Protection Fund by HUF 90 billion already included in the draft budget by HUF 50 billion. I think that it is absolutely necessary to talk about this, because it is a programme that the Hungarian Government has launched. The first public discussion started in 2018. I have already said this on several occasions, but I think that it is one of our biggest and most important rural development programmes, and for this reason it is worth a few minutes in this budget debate to mention the Hungarian village programme. Overall, we have 2873 municipalities, local governments, which have 5 thousand people and under 5 thousand people, and they are the ones to which this program is addressed. And I think it is important to say, even through concrete examples, why it is important that the Hungarian Parliament, not in the first year, provides a special framework for the launch of the Hungarian village programme. I have looked up some data and I would like to tell you why this proposal and this support system are important. The medical equipment has already been launched in 2020; the application for the development of medical clinics has already been published; it has also been published for the renewal of medical service apartments, municipal roads, bridges for the renewal of the tender, for the renovation of municipal sidewalks and for the purchase of materials, for the conversion of community spaces and employment for ecclesiastical persons, for the conversion of community spaces and for the provision of employment for municipalities. For these applications, as they were completed in 2020, nearly 5200 applications were submitted. The purchase of tools for the maintenance of public spaces and the development of playgrounds in kindergartens and public areas are also under way, and the support of civil society activities and their conditions under the Village Civil Fund is open to applicants at the moment, as far as 2020 is concerned. On the part of the State Investment Agency, both the pre-school application and the Sports Parks programme have already started. And to talk about the specifics, in 2020, there was the announcement of the results of an application system, healthcare applications, which, I think, affects our everyday lives and our everyday lives fundamentally; 750 applications were won here. [[16.50]] And to be able to say specifics in a budget debate, because I think that this is very important, because it has just been mentioned here that the Hungarian local government actually suffers a kind of disadvantage when adopting the budget for 2021, while, by the way, we are raising the Hungarian village programme by HUF 50 billion, so that is precisely proof that this is not the case; so within the framework of the health programme, for example, in the constituency where I was elected, the municipality of Áta, Baranya Bridge, Baksa, Csánoszró, Csémeszró, Csertő and Velény can spend as much money on the renewal of the medical office as they have applied. That's 160 million forints in total. Such calls from pure Hungarian sources, the source provided by the Hungarian government and the Hungarian budget, have not yet been implemented in recent years. The Hungarian village programme is also important because I think that it will try to transfer resources there without policy and for the purposes that the village mayors, together with the representatives of the local government elected by you, have proposed to the Hungarian government and the Prime Minister's Commissioner, among other things. In Baranya County, nearly HUF 3.5 billion was distributed, worth HUF 356 million. To argue a little more about why it is necessary to adopt the laws related to the budget for 2021, it is that this HUF 50 billion will serve social policy and development policy goals. For us rural people, this HUF 50 billion will be a partner so that we can continue to renovate the lower road networks at the rate that is typical for the past year or two. There are many, many decades of omissions to be replaced here. I hope that this HUF 50 billion, or the part of this which will go to the road renovation, the rural road renovation network, will benefit, at least based on the feedback of the mayors and the voters, the news has come that they will be in a very good place to support the survival of rural Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent congresswoman.
u2020-06-29-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So I would like to start the next round of amendments to the Budget Committee with a saying by Gyula Juhász: beggars on the threshold of the church warn believers, which is also a social issue, which is the question of beggars. I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that there are a variety of indications to be used for this draft budget law by 2021, perhaps the opposition is right on certain issues, either the government or the finance minister, but I would like to highlight the only and very important element of this proposal, which is the guaranteed salary of public service payment departments. If you look at this table, you can see that the Hungarian government does not value people who deal with the most vulnerable, vulnerable social groups in a lifelike manner. I would like to introduce to my fellow Members that the guaranteed salary in the highest category, where there is the longest period of employment, is a guaranteed gross wage of HUF 321 746. So for someone who's worked in the social sphere for 40 years, that's what this government guarantees. The smallest salary base is 69 thousand forints, it is terrible to say, and this means that this government tells the longest-term, highest-skilled social worker that I am still pushing you to make a net wage of 212 352 forints. What I can tell you is that it is possible that their development plans, perhaps their economic defence programmes, may be reflected in this 2021 budget of increasing our competitiveness in the international space, but, you know, it is not reflected that the people we trust our children, our elderly relatives, we trust the sick people they have to take care of in hospitals, the people who deal with addicts, those people who are least appreciated in this country. And this budget, whatever sign we give him, one thing is for sure: it's definitely not the support of values and treasures. Because in every society, man is the only and most important value. And everything that we wrap around it and it revolves around a government shows how a government intends to elevate that society or how it intends to abandon it. Several times over the past few weeks, they have spoken about a special allowance of HUF 500,000 in the case of a coronal virus epidemic, so that the employees of the social sphere will not receive it. Believe me, there wouldn't have been one speech for this if the employees of this sphere had been paid a salary as great and indispensable as they were doing their job! If these people saw that this government would do everything in its power to pay for their perseverance, to repay them, then no one would have needed this 500 thousand forints, because everyone would have wanted what they were working for to be paid for. I can tell you this: these work is now done by the obsessives in Hungary, and a single government cannot abuse it, that there are still possessed in its society. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-29-224	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, DK.
u2020-06-29-225	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, With a few thoughts I have already said to the budget, I would not like to repeat it, but I still think that there are some things that I may have to repeat in this round. One: what does this budget say to us in 2021? This is an important issue, a fundamental issue for a budget, because it is a plan, a social plan, a nation's plan, a financial plan. I believe that from this speech, particularly from opposition speeches, but, by the way, pro-governments standing on opposite feet, the compliment that neither of us knows exactly what this State budget 2021 sends to Hungarian society is. What do you say to the villages? We heard that the village development program will be HUF 50 billion, so it will grow. So it's a positive output of who gets it, which settlements are below 5,000 people, but we don't see the normative way, the way we assess how this money will be available to the villages. We see that this budget does not send much message to the county authorities or to the Metropolitan Municipality, including the district authorities, although it can be acknowledged that there is only one new thing appearing here regarding the municipalities. This is said to be a tiny operating normative as a new one appearing in this budget, this new operating normative is primarily as a result of grossing up, but in any case it can be accepted that this is an increase. The word here has already been said that 857 billion HUF is planned for 2021; it is also 16 percent higher than the support that municipalities receive in this year 2020. On the opposition side, of course, we did not listen to the fact that, at the same time, it withdraws in this value, and this is actually the second real element of this budget, that it gives with one hand, but is very sensitive to the fact that it withdraws as much as it does. And it is quite clear that, by lowering the value of the tax power, and so far about 178 municipalities have paid solidarity contributions on the basis of such tax power, it is now going to pay about 750 local governments, since they have downed to 20 thousand forints, this tax power indicator is 20 thousand forints/livers/person. [[17.00]] You could take it right back. It is only 160 billion forints that come back here on this one branch, on the solidarity contribution. The other is the car tax that has already been mentioned, which is a very significant withdrawal, I think. There is also a very serious tax on municipalities, despite the tax reduction, and this is the utility tax, which will be around HUF 54 billion in 2021, so the municipality will pay a tax to carry public works during its own journey, so it will have to pay a public utility tax. This budget hasn't changed that, I think. The other thing I would like to mention today in the hour of immediate questioning is that the capital is full of money, it has HUF 180 billion in shares or bonds; the Prime Minister specifically HUF 180 billion. If we look at what this 180 billion is, and then there have been a variety of funds, 250 billion has been said here today, then we have to say that it is not marketable money. We're not talking about marketable money here. We're talking about money you can't move. If you could move it, you wouldn't have to suffer from loss of BKV operation, you wouldn't have to deal with the BKK's renovations, you wouldn't have to suffer from the inherited bank loan of about 90 billion, you would have to pay it right away. But that's not the case. This is not about marketable, non-marketable shares and securities. Not to mention that the municipality was forced to visit the Hungarian Treasury a few years ago, so the municipality simply cannot put its free money into the bank, these are controlled funds from the Hungarian Treasury. So I think we didn't mention that either. We also did not mention that these municipalities operating the settlement do not simply represent the 3178 municipalities, but the 9 million Hungarian citizens living there. Here the municipalities are not a little smeared or, I can say, seriously smeared, but the Hungarian citizens, among them the taxpayers. But I must add that the pensioner is also a taxpayer, because he pays VAT and much more, and through it he pays taxes. So the biggest taxpayers are citizens themselves. This money, planned for 2021, is the 2021 resource of our 9 million 800 thousand, or I don't know how many of us have in common, which is why the opposition side has the right to say that we want our amendments to be adopted. This does not dare to face the country's problems, debt management and many other things in this budget show an incredibly bad perspective for Hungary by 2021. Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-29-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2020-06-29-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We've seen the Gyurcsány Party from its very new faces in the last few weeks. First of all, they agree with the choice of Time magazine that Hitler has become a man of the year. That is what has now happened, fellow Members. Now we hear that Gergely Christmas is actually incapable of spending the sovereign debt that is there, and she simply can't solve it. The Balliberal City Council was criticized here by Congressman Hajdu. Congressman, the capital has HUF 180 billion in sovereign debt, which can be made money at any time, and can be used at any time. In your words, you don't understand why you're struggling with BKV's funding, you don't understand why they won't issue the Lanchid public procurement. Congressman, we don't understand. Ask your allies, ask the party president, who said he's gonna have a desk at City Hall, ask them why he's not gonna make money on that 180 billion forints of sovereign debt, and why he's not gonna start the real job. You're here to admit that this is not something I said the D.C. leadership couldn't do. I could have said that, because I agree with your words. I have found several such points in opposition speeches, which I agree with, as I also agree with Anett Bősz that we have a completely different view of the world. I also agree with Mr Varju that the budget is a choice of value, the value of whom we want to represent and to whom we want to help. It was also a value choice when you planned a budget after the crisis. It was also a value choice when you ended the 13th month pension, when you took a month's wages from hundreds of thousands of people when you increased unemployment to 12 percent because you took wrong economic policy measures, and it was also a value choice when you spent additional PPP construction contracts with your friends with the world's largest government deficit. That was your choice of values. On the other hand, our value choice is that the budget for families, which was HUF 980 billion in 2010, will be HUF 2295 billion next year, and family support will increase by two and a half times. It's a value choice. It is also a value choice to increase defence spending by 214 percent compared to 2010. It is also a value choice to increase health spending by 77 percent compared to 2010. It is also a value choice that religious spending increases by 221 percent, that sports and leisure spending increases by 385 percent, and that religious spending increases by 174 percent compared to the last budget year adopted by you in 2010. That is the choice of values, honourable Members. I would still like to say to my fellow Member Hajdu that he should not seek normative support in the programme "Hungarian Village" (Hungarian Village). These are tenders. That's how it's been. Whether the renovation of the road or the renewal of the doctor's office or the renovation of the various civil organizational community spaces are obviously not on a normative basis, but 97.5 percent of the applicants, if I remember correctly, then the Commissioner of the Government corrects me, were a successful tender in the Hungarian village programme, too, in the last year. I hope that Hungarian villages will be able to apply again next year with such success. Congressman Mesterházy said that we do not have in our dictionary the term "suppression." Yes, you can. We have repeatedly said what restrictions you have applied in 2008-2009. We have repeatedly said that a crisis management policy based on austerity does not work, that a crisis management should not be built on aid or austerity, but on investment promotion, creation of jobs, and the creation of as many improvements as possible. This is how we want to deal with the crisis. Mr Mesterházy also said that he did not want to return to the economic policy where we were before the crisis. Congressman, four and a half million Hungarians have worked, and there has never been that many, five percent of the economic growth that we have been leading in the European Union, and I would like to return to this state, I honestly say; I am surprised that you do not share this interest. I would like to return to the pre-crisis economic state, where the Hungarian people have a job, where they have had a steady and sustained wage increase, and where economic growth comes from here, Central Europe and partly Hungary, where every year the investment from abroad has made a record, where every year the export of products produced by Hungarian producers and factories has made a record, I would like to return to this state. We are working to return, and it is clear in the next year's budget that these figures are encouraging, and it can be said that we will return thanks to the right move by the government and the work of the Hungarian people. So we don't agree that you don't want to go back to that economy. We have talked about the municipalities on several occasions, honourable Members. If you look at next year's budget, the budget allocation to municipalities will increase by HUF 118 billion compared to this year, so not compared to 2010, but by HUF 118 billion compared to this year. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we have freed the municipalities from more than HUF 1300 billion of debt, as they were drowning because of your policy, the municipalities were drowning in debt, because you have constantly taken funds from the municipalities, while they have been loading more and more tasks on them. As a result, they had such an incredible debt ratio in 2010 that it was clearly impossible to maintain the situation, so we took over HUF 1300 billion in debt from the municipalities. [[17.10]] On several occasions, we have told you and asked you to at least tell the truth on the basis of numbers, this debt has not been repaid. We are talking about a debt of over HUF 220 billion among local governments in the current state. This is very, very far from the 1,300 billion-dollar debt package, a loan that strangled the municipalities thanks to your failed and poor crisis management and economic policy. I think it is right that there will be more resources for education, health, law enforcement, defence, culture, belief, sport or leisure next year than there has been this year. Our crisis management is to try to get the economy back on track, try to reach the same place we were before the crisis, to create as many jobs as possible, at least as much as the virus will destroy, to invest, to attract investment here. Our crisis management is not a relief policy, our crisis management is not a restriction, but a attempt to help Hungarian small, medium and large enterprises on the widest possible scale and with the best possible efficiency, so that now that we see the world economy restarting, at least one step ahead of the start line. That's what we're working on. I hope that you are also interested in this, or at least you will be able to give your vote in order to re-launch the economy together, as it is a budget for economic protection. You've seen the numbers. I ask you to accept the truth and support the budget against all false news and rumors. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I indicated that there was no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2020-06-29-229	Mr President, Dear House, Since I didn't have the monitor in front of me, I didn't see when I was coming, but perhaps it was luckier, because I could listen to both opposition and pro-government opinions. All this has confirmed that, indeed, in the era of political tribal wars, everyone is trying to comply with their own opinion bubble and I am typically trying to address this to my pro-government fellow Members to send reinforcements to their own. But, indeed, a draft budget is a value choice, and in this selection of values, Fidesz-KDNP has put out the direction indicator, put down the vote, and perhaps I can illuminate it by highlighting three key areas. On the one hand, we have in front of us the more than 800 opposition, more than 400 right-wing amendments, which may not have included any net nonsense at all, but we do not see that the Fidesz-KDNP has been supportive of any of them, whether it is support for the IVF baby program without a hat or for nation strategy amendments that undoubtedly serve the survival of the Hungarian nation. That Fidesz-KDNP doesn't support them from ego or calculation, you'll have to account for it yourself. The home creation segment has been mentioned many times, and there is typically a lack of a public-based housing programme on which this House will also vote, and Fidesz-KDNP can also express its message to young Hungarians. We can see that, although we welcomed the introduction of the CSOK at the time, I would have been delighted if it had a much wider availability, so not only is it trying to operate with a reduced loan, but also, let us say, the volume of support is wider, and I would have been very happy if the banks that provided it had not driven our countrymen under a certain income. Thus, a chemically pure neoliberal model has been implemented, since medium or better earners can use the support and those who really need it are not. But in addition, I must say that this government has not sent a message to people living in the apartments in the middle of a crisis, when a lot of people are unable to pay their already and already increased fees, but cannot turn to where. Interesting, Mr Secretary of State, Spain has been able to develop a model for this in days, where, yes, the necessary documents could be turned to a state fund and temporary, breathtaking assistance could be obtained by those who needed it. Here we have another model of value choice. Not only Mr Secretary of State, but also colleagues on the government side have said many times that they want to support the acquisition of income from work and do not want to distribute aid. I can fully agree with this basic philosophy. Except for the 21st. In the first century, after an epidemiological hazard, it may be said that a little after, but it is certain that, at the beginning and mid of an economic crisis, a breathing machine should be quite simply, in terms of the, patient, who is expected to be able to stand up to the labour market as a fully-fledged fighter in the coming years. Therefore, there is no need to be ashamed of the age, and there is no shame in the fact that citizens who really need it if it is only temporary and by no means life-style, but help not only is provided by the Government of Hungary, because the government is only a mediator, he does not have one forint, but, where appropriate, the entire Parliament could agree that those who are in trouble because of the emergency of the disease should indeed be given a helping hand. There is no trace of the problems of these social groups in this draft budget, but I am addressing Mr Secretary of State that you have dealt with the crisis resolution package that evictions are restarting in Hungary. Let me describe the inhumanity that comes from the image of the loss of income from the masses of Hungarians, the situation of bank or credit damage, the ambush situation, the failure to pay the debt, while the labour market's potential is incredibly limited, and you allow the executive gang based on questionable or real-life transactions to continue its activities and allow thousands more to be evicted this year! That's what you asked for, two-thirds? They can't even protect or protect those who, by the way, try to stay on their feet, but because of the changed circumstances, they can't pay their repayments? These people should be sending messages in the budget plan, sending normal messages, but that didn't work. However, let us look at another area, the package called public cargo, where the same government can be an amazing advantage to banks and multi-company companies. So there is no message for young Hungarians, there is no message for those left on the side of the road, they got into trouble, but once in 2015, he made a deal with the banks and made a deal with the multinational companies. I never thought that this should be said in Parliament, that before 2010, I criticized very much the governments of that time too much about oversubsidising these multinational companies, as if they had not understood the order of operation on the basis of which these multi-enterprises do not necessarily decide on the basis of grants, what investment they bring here, pick up the production line, but, Mr Secretary of State, your government went far beyond the period before 2010. Brutally, they also spend a lot more on multi-segment in non-refundable form, weighing inflation. Consider an example. The Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have not been very successful in providing support, with a zero percent loan for some circles, and I welcome that. I also see that the government wanted to make up for 10 to 20 percent of the wages lost, and that more was not achieved by market calculations. But let's look at the case of Audi as a burning example, where we see now I will quote only press reports and statistics that are free of political opinion that in 2011 Audi received HUF 11.2 billion in support of the Opel 5.5 billion. I recall that it was Mr Matolcsy who justified this support. This was already six million forints/jobs at the time, since then brutal data has come out weighted by inflation. They said that in return they would expect 12-15 years of smooth operation, where Hungary does not necessarily have to help, but they are employed by Hungarian people and, by the way, they were probably hoping that these companies would provide a good salary. Good pay has failed, and employment may have. Let's keep moving. 2014: You will receive 11.2 billion from the Audi state background in order to expand its factories. In 2016, Audi Hungaria, which in the meantime increased its net revenues to 2600 billion, drew another HUF 1.9 billion from you because you thought it was important. Almost entirely realises exports from these subsidies, and after billions of these exported, I do not see corporate tax revenues, Mr Secretary of State. Correct me. Where's the corporate tax on this company? Where's the corporate tax on all of the over-supported multi-segment? Let's keep moving. In 2019, Audi will receive HUF 6.4 billion of state funding from 41 billion. How many times has this 12 to 15-year-old promise been broken? Meanwhile, a company that did not appear as a taxpayer, a major contributor or a contributor to its weight on a corporate income tax line, but could not simply push the Hungarian wage level up, nor did it employ much more people than, say, in the 2010 period. [[17.20]] And I have to say to you, when you tell us that there is a 5% economic growth, this is what you have to include, the over-reciprocated multi-companies that drive profits out of Hungary untaxed. You're gonna let it go. You're not gonna do anything about it. I'm not saying that these companies should be persecuted, no, I'm saying that we need public burdens. And what do you do in your head? A banking sector special tax is levied, and as a net chemical-clean colonial government, the entire special tax is allowed to be written down to the banks concerned in five years, and they are still replaced by a Hungarian national bank framework, which appears to be another $40 billion donation. These banks don't pay 55, they get 40, Mr. Secretary of State. Is that what you think it is? If so, then I do not see the world as you do, because I am on the side of Hungarian workers and young people until the last moment until they take the floor from me in this Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-29-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-06-29-231	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member Nacsa is a funny Member, and he agrees with us that we do not agree. We could still say such things here in the House. Basically, I think that you, Member, have either accidentally or deliberately misunderstood my words and our words, because we were talking about how to make the current situation even better. I was also talking about the fact that such a crisis is indeed an opportunity for the current government to redesign the Hungarian economy. But every redesign, right, is worth what they put behind the money, a single initiative, behind a project. That is why I said that I do not want to go back to where we were, because it would be much better if the Hungarian economy came out of this crisis in a more impact-proof way in order to increase productivity so that we can increase competitiveness; that we can switch to a knowledge-based society instead of work-based society, because you always refer to the work-based society, although I think there is no work-based society today without a knowledge-based society; that Hungary should not be a assembly plant; that it should not be the case where it is necessary to run around to multinational companies and seek their favor, and that when something is announced, you should give them tens of billions of forints from budgetary sources, even as my better fellow Member has already spoken about it, if 110 billion dividends are carried out from the country in any case. The other thing I wanted to suggest to your attention is that, if I understand correctly, you encourage the capital, and if I understand it correctly, the Prime Minister today also asked a question that our fellow Member Tamás Harangozó said why money that is actually tied up as a reserve or in some form in the form of a bond is not being used. What I just don't understand is that if you say that debt is bad and what a bad policy it was, then you're encouraging the City Council to use the existing reserve that you've set aside to renovate the Chain Bridge, so in Hungarian, spend it. On the other hand, they talk about what a great national symbol the Chain Bridge is, and how proud you are of the traditions and throwing ten billion into different projects and ideas, which may have far less value than the Chain Bridge for the Hungarian nation or even for the Hungarians. So if you can organize a fireworks and related events from ten billion forints, then I do not understand exactly that it is precisely to renovate the Chain Bridge, which is a national symbol, a historical relic, if you can put it that way, there is no ten billion forints by the government. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this year's budget allocation was around 83 billion, the next year's increase in the order of HUF 100-108 billion, and I criticized it, and this is what we talked about here in terms of value choice, that you spend almost that much or more on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line in one part. So it was only this year that eighty billion forints were added, which is available to all jobseekers in Hungary all year round. And next year, hundreds of billions will be added to a project that represents clear economic policy and geopolitical interests in China, and it is entirely appropriate from their point of view, but it is still unclear what Hungary will gain in the next period. One Commissioner and that is what all my opposition colleagues are talking about, how better to spend the resources available. This is what the opposition proposals are about, and this is what the budgetary debate on our side was about, how to spend our existing common resources more efficiently, more usefully and with better results, so that Hungarian families, Hungarian workers or small and medium-sized enterprises can profit more from it, and not again friends, oligarchs and favourite multinational companies, which do not need this, be it Lőrinc Mészáros, who can take 11 billion dividends out of his company, or be it another multinational company that takes out tens of billions of forints over the years, instead of paying corporate tax to the Hungarian state budget. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2020-06-29-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Szakács, MSZP.
u2020-06-29-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, was moved by the contributions of my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, to say a few things and to fix them. You are saying that debt consolidation in the municipalities, this HUF 1300 billion was a big problem. Not here, considering that the government at that time probably wasn't as big of a problem as the hero you're setting yourselves up to be, you might want to think about that a little bit. Another thing: according to this year's statement of the central bank, the total debt of the Hungarian government sector, which has already been authorised by the Hungarian Treasury, is HUF 1248 billion. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true.]] So that's something to think about. That's where they keep me, mostly. You tell my colleague László Hajdu that there is no normative financing. You're absolutely right about that, we have a problem with that. We have a problem with your normative funding, which says that certain tasks have to be performed by a government instead of the state, they are financed by the state, but instead you have brought in this system of exit, doorknob, front-room, bowing, and bowing, which means that, in the city of those who are quite enthusiastic about clapping, there are several types of development, and many types of tasks available to those who do not. Now, the truth is, you're fighting the mayors, even though it's the population that's gonna drink the juice. If we are still talking about debt, and I saw that my fellow Member was very shaken by the fact that he did not have so much debt to the municipalities: then add one more, my dear fellow Member, to add the debts of the utility companies. Last time we had a debate, we said that these companies should not be saved from liquidations, but from the road through which you took local government-owned utility companies, as regards the utility tax, how much utility taxes are collected from these companies. And, please, look into it, these companies can finance it on credit, they finance the Hungarian state on credit. And besides, of course, they have to do their job. In other words, if the faucet is opened, drinking water must flow from it; if they put the trash in front of the house, it must be taken away; if they want public transport, the bus must be refueled, and the bus driver must sit on it and drive it. And besides, you're taxing these companies not even a little, but a lot, which leads to these companies being able to do their job or not being able to do their job. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] Now you're shaking your head again, my fellow Member. You have not been able to issue an invoice in the company known as kukaholding, you have not been able to issue an invoice to the Hungarians for a year and a half for a waste management fee. Then they put it on the table of Hungarians quickly, I don't even remember exactly, as a Christmas or Easter gift. So much for working. We believe that predictability tends to drive towards normative financing. Predictability drives local government people who have been doing this for two or three decades can perform the right tasks in the right place. [[17 .30]] This is what you want to centralize, as do companies, as do the distribution of money. This is definitely not the right direction. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2020-06-29-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. If you wish to respond to what has been said in this debate, Mr State Secretary, I will give you the floor.
u2020-06-29-235	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, let me also thank you for the support and criticism that honourable Members have made during the general debate on the budget in recent weeks, during the Commission's debates, or just today. I would also like to thank you for your critical comments because this has given us the opportunity to clarify some issues. Allow me now to take five points to respond to the comments on the budget as a whole, including the opinions expressed today. Next year's draft budget law is called the budget for economic protection. I think this is the most important character that gives the government an economic policy response to the problems caused by the corona virus epidemic. We have talked a lot about the fact that it is basically the work that can emerge from this current situation, from the situation where Hungary and most countries are not likely to be able to avoid the economic downturn. At the same time, we see that all the economic policy responses that the government has made this year and which are included in the draft budget law for next year may be sufficient to bring the Hungarian economy back on a growing path, as it has characterised us in recent years. In this context, I am pleased to note that the initial HUF 2555 billion amount of the Economic Protection Fund, if the Parliament accepts the final version of the Budget Committee's proposal, will increase to more than HUF 2600 billion. This is more than 5 percent of GDP. The growth, as has been said in this debate, is basically due to the expansion of the Hungarian village programme. Congressman Csaba Nagy highlighted this programme in particular. I confirm that the originally planned amount of HUF 90 billion will increase to HUF 192 billion, of which HUF 52 billion will be used for village road constructions, so that a total of HUF 102 billion can be available for the construction of village roads, and an additional HUF 50 billion can be added to the project. I believe that the resources in the Economic Protection Fund are the primary sources that can serve job creation through investment and, as appropriate, in addition to job creation, to preserve jobs. We believe that, if public resources are available, they should be used to keep and create jobs. I therefore disagree with the points raised by Mr Attila Mesterházy, which he has just made, that we should increase the duration of the unemployment benefit and increase the amount. I agree, of course, that it is not certain that we can offer jobs to everyone in the competitive sector immediately, or that companies can offer jobs as part of government measures, who are out of work, but at the same time the state says that there is access to employment in the public sphere, and this can also give the individual support, as it can make a bigger living instead of aid, and that the whole of the national economy can improve as a result of employment. The second important thing that will be discussed next year's draft budget law is to maintain epidemiological preparedness. That is why I believe it is important that, according to the draft budget law before you, the health insurance and disease protection fund proposed by the government remains. The amount of the car tax in 2021 may be the source of this fund and, if I may, I would react briefly to criticisms concerning municipalities. According to next year's draft, we calculate the central account of a car tax of HUF 34.4 billion that would have remained with local governments under the old system. This represents about 1 percent of municipal revenues. I also confirm that, according to the proposal before you, municipal subsidies are now increasing by more than HUF 120 billion. Of course, the solidarity contribution system is also changing in parallel, as there are significant financial differences between municipalities in Hungary on an international scale. It is therefore appropriate to carry out a kind of income transfer, since all municipalities, whether they are less wealthy or less wealthy, must carry out mandatory tasks, there must be kindergarten, nursery, public lighting everywhere. What does the government offer in exchange for the municipalities in 2021? What do you offer in exchange for giving up the amount of the car tax in 2021 in order to preserve the health situation? It offers a clear improvement in the financial situation of the less-favoured municipalities, offering that this improvement will be achieved on the basis of normative rules, since this is what the draft budget law before you is about, and it offers that, with the recovery of the economy, municipalities can be one of the beneficiaries of growth. Why do I say that? Honourable Members, I draw attention to the fact that, thanks to Hungarian economic growth in the last five years, the local business tax, which is the main revenue of local authorities, has increased by HUF 260 billion in five years. Allow me to recall growth data from Hungary and the European Union. In the last ten years, between the first quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2020, the Hungarian economy grew by 32.5 percent, and the average growth of the Union was not exactly 13 percent. If I watch only the last five years, this increase is 25 percent in Hungary and 8.4 percent in the European Union. Honourable Members, If economic growth had only been achieved in Hungary over the past five years as the average growth of the European Union, local governments would not have had more revenues than HUF 260 billion from business tax, but by an order of magnitude of HUF 90 billion. The annual tax revenue increase of HUF 150 billion came from the municipalities. I ask that, when considering next year's draft budget law from the point of view of local authorities, it should be borne in mind that, in recent years, I repeat, local authorities have been one of the beneficiaries of economic growth, and we expect that, if next year, we can keep up to 5 percent of the growth of the economy and the growth of the Union's average in the coming years, then the revenues of local authorities will also increase significantly. President László Varju said that there is no way of knowing the financial situation of the change affecting local governments. Mr President, on 24 June, Mr President, the Committee on Budgets held a question on the financial resources of the municipalities. In fact, I would also like to inform the Honourable Parliament that I informed the Member the next day before the meeting of the Committee on Budgets that day, and I can now tell you: 3180 of the local governments had some kind of savings in a commercial bank on the basis of their own reports in March 2020. The total savings amounted to HUF 830.9 billion. This means only the amount at the commercial banks, does not include the amounts in the Treasury of Hungary, paid from various state and European Union sources, I repeat, in treasury accounts. The debts of local governments, as Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa said, were HUF 220 billion at the end of last year. This is far above the sovereign debt stock of local governments. Therefore, not only is the data on deposits about the financial situation of the municipalities, but also the sovereign debt and debt. Of course, there are differences between municipalities and municipalities, and I also draw attention to the fact that next year's draft budget law improves the financial situation of less tax-powered municipalities, and that individual support is also possible in 2021, as has been the case so far. [[17.40]] But, I repeat, the most important item that should be highlighted from the point of view of the local authorities is that the Hungarian economy should return to growth. The third item I would like to briefly mention is the value choice. Many have said that the current draft budget law also reflects a value choice. Our value choice has been about work and family since 2010. I don't have to stress the job enough. I am here to draw Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea's attention not only to the radical increase in the number of people employed in comparison with the European Union in recent years, but also to the fact that wages have also increased significantly. The average increase in gross average earnings over the last nine years was 7%. This is why we cannot find a category of payments, a category of wages, where there would not have been a substantial increase in earnings above the EU average. The minimum wage was already mentioned today. Allow me to say the net amount of the change in minimum wage. Between 2010-2020, minimum wage earners with no children experienced a net increase of 77.7 percent, while children saw a higher wage increase due to the family discount, this net increase in earnings was 160 percent for those with three or more children. The third thing is the choice of value between work and family. In the case of family support, I draw attention to the fact that the amount and amount of the baby care fee may increase, and the mother who has taken the child can receive 100 percent of her previous salary. In view of the fact that only personal income tax is to be paid from the baby care fee, the individual's net income may increase. The final draft budget law before you includes more than HUF 14 billion in the amount of this change, so family support could increase nominally by more than HUF 80 billion in 2021. I would like to draw the attention of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to the fact that the budget does send a message to young people, to those who wish to have children, to those who imagine their future at home, with family support, with a home-building programme. We believe that access to property is what solves a family's housing problem in the long run, and is not basically the rental program. Of course, municipalities, who otherwise own housing, have the opportunity to start renting programmes under their own authority. I would also like to draw your attention, as regards banks and multinationals, to the fact that the Hungarian government, in agreement with the central bank, was among the first in Europe to have a moratorium on repayments. This is a substantial help to those who have taken credit for, for example, home creation. They are also, of course, subject to the moratorium on repayment. As far as multi-enterprises are concerned, Congressman, if you ask companies working in the commercial sector, in the utilities sector, you will get a more nuanced opinion. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our fundamental goal in the production sectors is to integrate these multinational companies into the Hungarian economy. This is what the supplier's programme is about, and we can see the results, because today the added value of these companies in Hungary is much higher than it was a few years ago. Let me also briefly mention the surplus of next year's budget, as this almost 5% economic growth will allow us to count on surpluses in a number of areas. Thus, additional resources are available for the payment of pensions. The recovery of the 13th month pension has been said, the pension premium system has been mentioned, but I can confirm that pensions will also maintain their real value in 2021. As a combined effect, pensions can increase by nearly HUF 327 billion. Health spending is increasing to more than HUF 156 billion. I would like to draw the attention of Mrs Anett Bősz here to the fact that the wages of health workers are increasing in the current situation as of 1 November 2020. A 14 percent increase compared to the basic salary for 2018 for all the workers and patrons has already been achieved since January of this year, and a 20 percent increase from 1 November will be made, and the additional impact of this, the impact of the whole year, will be included in the draft budget law for next year, but I would say education, the cultural sector, as Congressman Nacsa did. These areas may also count on substantial surpluses if Parliament adopts the draft budget law. Finally, allow me, as a fifth element, to speak on the financial discipline part of the bill. I think that every budgetary law is responsible if it determines, as far as possible, what additional expenditure it is possible to provide. The bill before you in 2021 aims to ensure that the general government deficit is below 3 per cent of GDP, the debt ratio will be reduced in 2021, that is, the process we have seen since 2011 to reduce the debt ratio every year and, as a result, the cost of financing the debt will also be reduced after a transitional year in 2020. I would like to draw the Honourable Parliament's attention to the fact that a number of amendments have been tabled. On the opposition side, it has been said many times that all the amendments should not be taken seriously, as they go far beyond the corresponding appropriations. Let me say that when assessing these opposition amendments, of course, it is possible to argue how the amount of extraordinary government measures as a reserve should change to 120 billion, but I consider it frivolous when opposition proposals would transfer HUF 1172 billion out of the reserve of HUF 120 billion. It is possible to argue about the amount of resources needed for rail development, but I consider it frivolous that opposition amendments would regroup more than HUF 2000 billion of the HUF 188 billion amount; I could continue the line. I think that it is worth adopting a budget for the Honourable Parliament that proposes transfers within the existing framework. These are the proposals made by the Committee on Budgets. The surplus of the Hungarian village programme or the expansion of the village management network is such an amendment. On the basis of this opinion, I propose that consideration be given to the adoption of amendments to the 2021 budget and the subsequent adoption of the bill itself. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-236	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on this day of the meeting, but before that, we will have a five-minute technical break. (Sunning: 17.48 17.53 President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2020-06-29-237	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Next up is the T/10710 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. The Committee on Budgets proposed a summary amendment T/10710/834. T/10710/835. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraphs 4 and 4, Jobbik is Nos 497, 528 and 794; LMP is Nos 562, 563 and 674; DK is Nos 505, 715 and 792; MSZP is Nos 761, 765 and 799; Dialogue proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 387 and Nos 697 and 721. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the faction leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. Dear Parliament, Amendment 497 was proposed by Dániel Z. Carpathian and Peter James. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 528 tabled by Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 121 against and two abstentions. Amendment 794 was proposed by Anita Kőrösi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 119 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 562 tabled by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 119 against and three abstentions. Amendment 563 proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 121 against and three abstentions. Amendment 674 is proposed by Péter Ungár and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 121 against and three abstentions. Amendment 505 was proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 120 against and 23 abstentions. [[18.00]] Amendment 715, tabled by László Varju. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 122 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 792 tabled by László Varju and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 121 against and three abstentions. Amendment 761 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 119 against and four abstentions. Amendment 765 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 799, tabled by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 387 tabled by Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 121 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 697 tabled by Bence Tordai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 120 against and four abstentions. Amendment 721 tabled by Bence Tordai and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 137 against and 11 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/10710/834. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 50 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the Rules of Procedure, the Speaker of Parliament is T/10710/839 submitted by the national Parliament. It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote is expected to take place on Friday. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the election of the new officials of the Parliament. I would remind you that Vice-President Tamás Sneider, István Simicskó, György Szilágyi and György Lukács have resigned their duties. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to thank you for your work in the meeting. Dear Parliament, The factions have made their nomination for vacant posts. Personal proposal of the Speaker of Parliament S/11176. You can get to know him on the website. Individuals proposed for officials will be decided separately. An amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on it without debate. The election of the vice-president of the Parliament will follow. On the basis of the nomination of the Jobbik Group, the Speaker of Parliament initiated the election of Mr Brenner Koloman as Vice-President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mr Brenner Koloman as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, The National Assembly did not elect Brenner Koloman by 97 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention, because I find that Parliament is not a quorum. The Rules of Procedure 14. I request the faction leaders under paragraph 2... [[Noise, interrogations from both sides, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány and Vadai defeated Brenner Koloman. Crying from the opposition side: Shame on you! The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask the faction leaders to... (Noise, interrogations from both sides, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány and Vadai defeated Brenner Koloman. Crying from the opposition side: Shame on you! The president's ringing. Give me a moment, my dear Parliament. So I'm asking the faction leaders to secure the quorum. We will now continue our work with further decisions and, in the event of a quorum, we will return to the decision of the Vice-President at the end of the decisions. Dear Parliament, The election of the notaries of the Parliament will follow. On the basis of the nomination of the Jobbik Group [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The President of the Parliament has initiated the election of Lords Csaba Gyure and Ádám Steinmetz as notaries. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mr. Csaba Gyüre as notary of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament elected Mr Csaba Gyüre as the notary of the Parliament with 167 votes in favour, not without a vote, with two abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mr. Adam Steinmetz as notary of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament elected Mr.Adám Steinmetz as the notary of the Parliament by 167 votes to one, with two abstentions. [[18.10]] On the basis of the nomination of the KDNP Group, the Speaker of Parliament has initiated the election of Mr András Aradszki as notary. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Mr.András Aradski as notary of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament elected Mr.András Aradszki as the notary of the Parliament with 169 votes in favour, not without a vote, with two abstentions. Allow me to wish the new officials of the Parliament effective work and good health. Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. A decision to amend a decision. S/1177 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Winning Vinnai to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2020-06-29-238	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows:. The National Assembly elects István Horváth, instead of Fidesz, Sándor F Kovács, member of the Committee. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Point 2:, This Decision shall enter into force at the time of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2020-06-29-239	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/1177. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 168 votes in favour, not without a vote, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has received a motion to waive her immunity 407. Bpk. 61.162/2020/2. on a private charge of defamation by the Central District Court of Pesti. The Speaker gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/11180. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of Parliament, submitted a proposal for a resolution on her immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame.
u2020-06-29-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said, the Pest Central District Court has put forward a motion for the suspension of the immunity of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for defamation. Among the facts, I would like to briefly describe the following to the House. In January, the congresswoman held a press conference on three different days, obviously in public, and these press conferences also appeared on Facebook pages. At these press conferences, there were very unusual and strong sentences, and I quote only two. One of them is:, The illicit gynecological surgeries in the basement..., and more importantly:, A 23-year-old woman without children has been racistly barren in a hospital. I don't know if you can make tougher statements about the hospital and the employees there. However, the immunity committee has maintained its unbroken practice so far, recognising that this is a private prosecution procedure, so the committee has decided, by a large majority, that since it is a private charge, we recommend to the Parliament not to suspend the immunity of the Member in the case in question. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-241	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. I would like to ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to take the opportunity to speak. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] She's shaking her head that she doesn't. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the parliamentary immunity of the congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély with 6 votes in favour, 145 against and 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that Parliament has a quorum, the House Rule 14. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, we are now once again deciding on the election of the Vice-President of the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mr Brenner Koloman as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote: 95 yes, 2 no.]] Dear Parliament, 95 yes... [[Rumble, then rumble, yells. Zoltán Balczó: Gyurcsány refuses to vote! Don't wait for him. Tibor Nunkovics to the ranks of Fidesz: Why ask me, you wretch! The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, [[The president's ringing the bell. Crying from Jobbik: Gyurcsány did not vote! Don't expect it from him. What you've done is pathetic. You live on hate!]] I hereby declare that the Parliament for the election of the Vice-President... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, With all due respect, I would ask both left and right-wing Members to calm down a bit. I note that Parliament was once again unable to reach a resolution in its decision to elect the Vice-President. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pathetic!]] According to the Rules of the House, the list of non-voting Members shall be established on the basis of the voting list and the decision to elect the Vice-President shall be postponed to the next sitting of the Parliament. We will continue our work by discussing the draft amendments and the Commission's reports. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 18.20 18.23) President: Dr. István Hiller Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2020-06-29-242	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The Commission's reports on the establishment of Hungary's central budget for 2021 and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow. The government referral is T/10856. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2020-06-29-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 25 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10856 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2021. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 6 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill submitted contains proposals for legislative amendments which are demonstrable in relation to the appropriations of the central budget for 2021, are linked to the law on the central budget for 2021 and are in line with the published budget figures for 2021. The summarised amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee contains a number of clarifications as well as codification and correct language. As a very important and forward-looking proposal between the amendments, the proposal to amend the media law has been adopted for our hearing-damaged and visually impaired compatriots. After several discussions, this regulation was included in the bill, which is a very important step forward in order for hearing impaired and visually impaired people to enjoy television broadcasts more widely and easily with Hungarian subtitles or sign language interpretations. Furthermore, it is an important amendment proposal to change the oligopol situation of the Hungarian beverage wholesale trade so that domestic producers can also have access to the market. Neither the sale of beer, soda or mineral water could be concluded by the large producers and distributors. This is not only in the interests of domestic manufacturers, but also of Hungarian consumers. The regulatory goal is to deal with the monopoly drink trading situation in Hungary in some way, so that domestic manufacturers can have access to the Hungarian market at all levels. The commercial practice in Hungary today is that large manufacturers conclude exclusive contracts with distributors, so they actually give them money, so they can give them the right to prohibit and prevent the marketing of competitors' products. This is clearly an attitude towards reducing competition. We want Hungary to have access to the domestic market in the same way that small craft manufacturers in the Czech Republic, Germany, Austria or Slovakia have access to the domestic market in the same proportion as this was said at the committee meeting, and also in the United States, where they have roughly 15-20 percent market share, while not reaching 4 percent in Hungary. This amendment proposal is basically about consumers and about how we break the market in some way, so that domestic and small producers have access to the market. The bill can also have an economic recovery and job creation effect, as access to the market also offers new opportunities for smaller manufacturers. As a baranya representative, keeping my bias open, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you a few examples. The Steamcraft Brewery Brewery Brewery Brewery or the Pécs Brewery, founded in 1848, the Mecseknádasdi KARL Mikro-Sörfegyzde, the Carbon Beer Brewery of Hops or the Kapucinus Kézműszerzdő in my constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, together with the summary amendment proposal, a bill has been put on the table in this House, in which the underlying package of laws ensures consistency with the 2021 budget and next year's tax laws. I therefore consider it important, and I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you for listening. [[Lajos Kosa applauds.]]
u2020-06-29-244	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if he would like to speak now. [[Péter Banai Benő: No, thank you.]] It says no. You have 15 minutes later, I'm just telling you. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju is the next speaker as rapporteur for the designated Committee on Budgets, who presents the Committee's opinion on minorities, but as it is not in the Chamber, we are saving it now. Representatives' speeches will follow within the time frame on the agenda. As a pre-notified speaker, the representative of Fidesz, Mr Lajos Kósa, may take the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-245	Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to comment on the part of the proposal, which means amending the Trade Act. Amendment to the Trade Act, this solution is aimed at what my fellow Member has already said in relatively detailed terms, so as a supplement, I would like to add the following. In today's figures, the following is the drink wholesale and retail trade, for example, in beer. The last closed data is an 18 on the market. The total beer market in Hungary in 2018 was 166 billion. Of which 160 billion were sold or manufactured by three large multinationals: Heineken, Coors and Asahi. Asahi owns the Dreher, Heineken owns the Borsodi. [[18.30]] All three producers, to a significant extent, this means that 99 percent of these 160 billion sales were sold as domestic products, since they were produced in Hungary and the imports imported from the three multi-annual productions into Hungary can be estimated at around HUF 3 billion. In this way, it can be calculated that the domestic craft manufacturers had a total of 3 billion. So 160 is the three large, 3 billion is the three majors implemented by other brand imports, it is not Hungarian production, it is not domestic production, and 3 billion is all the rest. In other European countries, Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria, Slovakia, where there is a tradition of craft beer production, have implemented a regulation that allows this to be the typical figure of about 20 percent, and this is the case in the United States now, too, with small craft manufacturers in Hungary covering the market, and 80% of the large multis. We would also like to achieve this in Hungary. This is because in Hungary there is a tradition of craft manufacturing. If craft manufacturers are not artificially excluded from the market, this number can be achieved. This does not mean a loss of tax revenue to the budget, but a typical increase in employment is the fact that craft manufacturers employ ten times more employees for the same quantity, since they are craft manufacturers, i.e. not large-scale automated production. They bring in flavours and extra flavours in the case of beer, which is too bad to keep consumers away from, as it is not that they are not looking for these products, but that the custom of large manufacturers to enter into exclusive contracts with distributors has prevailed on the market. They say they're giving them different discounts, but in return, they can't get any drinks from any other manufacturer. This is true of beer, mineral water and soda. The soft drink and mineral water markets are obviously dominated by other large ones, the soft drink is basically dominated by Nestlé, Coca-Cola, Pepsi, and the mineral water market is similar. If we forbid this apparently restrictive practice of competition, we have a chance of developing an 80% to 20% ratio on the international market. Distributors will not be worse in any way, because not the volume of beer consumption will decrease, but simply the product will change a little bit and competition will be there, which will definitely support consumers in the price and also on the occasion. I think that this is just an example of the countries where these market opening experiments have already been carried out, namely regulations, either traditionally or in a new way. Traditionally, Germany and the Czech Republic are the best examples, and the United States, in the recent past, have been able to do so. If Parliament accepts this proposal, I think that we can break the established restrictive practice and that everyone, both the budget and consumers, will benefit from the fact that manufacturers will compete for consumers' favour. I call on this House to support the relevant amendment to the Trade Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-29-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Gergely Arató, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-247	Dear House, Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that we already agree with Mr Kósa that the regulation of the beer and soft drinks market is not primarily a distinction between evil foreigners and good Hungarians, but it is indeed a market regulation step. The bill intends to reduce a type of commercial practice, at least formally, but I will say a few words about this later, in which the large beer producers and soft drink manufacturers give discounts to distributors in exchange for exclusivity rights, such as catering places. This practice has long been challenged, so long challenged, that the Hungarian Competition Authority has also examined this practice. It concluded an agreement with the large brewers, whose implementation was verified by two large producers, Borsodi and Dreher in January and confirmed that their commitments had been fulfilled by the brewers. It can still be said that this practice remains restrictive of competition. I am inclined to share a good part of these arguments, whether from an employment point of view or from an expansion of choice, in order to tighten up this regulation, to draw up clearer, clearer rules and to reduce this exclusive practice. To be honest, I am less interested in beer-producing aspects, and I think it is more important to guarantee, on the one hand, the purity of competition, which is in the interests of consumers, because in this case they have the ability to choose between products on the basis of price-quality, and, on the other hand, to protect consumers or to support them in the sense that they have a choice from which they can choose. It's obviously a matter of person and taste, but I like countries where you can choose from a wide variety of beer. I lived in Belgium for a while, and in this respect it is also a very positive example. In this Parliament, we always talk a lot about the cultural role of wine. But there is also beer culture, and beer production also has a cultural role, which is also part of the Dreher itself, which has been operating for far more than a hundred years, such as the small brewers or craft brewers that have developed and carried on traditional techniques. That's all right, that's all there is to talk about. There are two little problems, dear fellow Members, with this proposal. One of them is the way it came before us. In a fiscal foundation law, but on the one hand, the budget can only be contacted through folk-tale turns, in Hungarian: there is no predictable direct budgetary impact, and on the other hand, it was only included in the foundation law as a motion from its representatives, without having anything to do with what that law had been about. A Member has the right, of course, to submit an amendment, and no one doubts that, but when he wishes to rearrange a complete market from any decent intention, it would be expected that he would do so by giving the Parliament time to discuss this and, in advance, conducting consultations with the stakeholders not only with the representatives of the small ones, but also with the representatives of the greats, as well as with the representatives of the hosts, where they can state their arguments, and then the Parliament can make a deliberate decision. On the other hand, we see that this system knows what a Soviet dwarf is, well, it's big for Soviet dwarfs, it's designed for small manufacturers that aren't so small. One has already been mentioned by the Member, but he forgot to mention, perhaps in a wrong way, that according to the press, at least the Matolcsy family has an interest in this brewery. And the other is the Ciuc Beer I'm talking about. Of course, we know that Ciuc Beer works in Romania, but it will still be a winner of this bill, because the bill is designed so that it is no longer exclusive if 20 percent of a craft beer is allowed by the catering unit. And who will be able to appear? Those breweries, which are not craftsmen at the upper limit of the small factory, are smaller breweries, which will make deals with the multinationals, and from now on will not be the beer of one but two distributors in these catering units. In Hungarian, these breweries get a market, and by chance, the very ones with which you have extremely good political relations, and it is not certain that the real craftsmen will be the winners of this. Finally, in the remaining time, let me also briefly talk about cata-regulation. [[18.40]] Sorry, one more sentence in the beer business. So in Hungarian, take this proposal out of here and bring it in as a separate law and discuss it fairly, then we are willing to support it, because then, for example, we can submit an amendment, which we cannot now. And this other case, this is the cata case. Now I have very little time left, so I'd just like to say very briefly that we know the Ministry of Finance's thinking from this point of view. There are excellent professionals sitting there, and I don't want to hurt them, they're sitting in our time. They always calculate how much money such flat-rate taxes and taxes are supposed to take out of the budget pocket, because if the same amount of revenue were to be paid as a total public burden, then how much money would be invested in the budget. It's been calculated now, and it's been put into the budget, by the way, this source. The problem is, these taxes never come in, that's always the case. This game has already been played once with the Eva, which has been virtually eliminated, impossible to resort to, and then brought in the kata because they realized that the proceeds are not coming in this way. The point of these small business flat-rate taxes is that tax revenues are also made in sectors that are practically very difficult to grasp. And again, you can say that this is not a good regulation. We could argue about the right way to regulate [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but not in such a way as to bring it into Parliament as an amendment. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-248	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, is next. Here.
u2020-06-29-249	Mr President, Dear House, Very briefly, I'm confused about the government bill-making. It's quite simply unworthy of what you do. It is not the first time that lobbying interests have found you, it does not matter whether, during a budget planning period, in the middle of the summer break or in your champ's hair, and they simply force you into a proposal about something completely different, and then two of my honourable pro-government fellow Members stand up and give a big reason for it. They do not deal with the very important strategic areas of the proposal as a whole, but with the representation of lobbying interests. The fact is that I, myself, am always very happy to represent the interests of family businesses, craft breweries or even a little larger companies, especially in relation to multinationals; unfortunately, this proposal is not yet entirely about this. Indeed, I would very much welcome it if we could make amendments, amendments, or at least say in a normal debate, with a normal timeframe, our amendments that we are submitting will be voted out by you, but you may submit them on your own, and at the end will be implemented, and the proposal will improve. I would be a partner in such a debate; in what is happening here, I cannot, since there are many other areas we should be dealing with, the area of kata is just like this. And what we have to say is, at the beginning of an economic crisis, in the middle of the assassination of the government against small taxpayers, it's simply inexplicable. And I will tell you, Secretary of State, I consider it a legitimate basis for debate that some of the larger companies, some group of them, are abusively forcing Kata to be small. We can talk about an existing market phenomenon, and obviously everyone can argue on the basis of their position on this matter. But believe me, if you order a moratorium on loan repayment by the end of the year, you will do so despite the fact that countless persons or market players may abuse the moratorium itself. If an eviction moratorium is ordered, in many cases no eviction is enforced against those where they may have wanted to carry out a reorganization; I do not, but the forces behind the government may have. The fact is that once the crisis is over, we could touch a system, and otherwise I think that this legitimate debate should be carried out. For example, I am very disturbed by the social iresponsibleness of the government to continue to tell us about the implications of a partial lack of insurance for these countrymen in their retirement years. I still don't see who owns this social responsibility in this system. I don't see that on the steering wheel. So once again, we could argue about this, it's a legitimate professional debate, just not now, not in the middle of the blazing fire, and not in the middle of the carnage, but when the battle goes down and we can sit down next to the campfire to appreciate the state of the army, the state of the food supply and the state of the national economy at all. This is not the time, Mr. Secretary. And what I see here is that lobbying interests also appear in the budget planning and in the debate on the foundation, but the problems of simple Hungarian people, such as those of the cata, are not being put on the table, and it is also apparent here that, as in the previous agenda, where I accused this government of submission to multi-companies, that small or medium-sized producers are trying to put in a position where the interests of the multi-partial segment are not so seriously affected, and that, in fact, the background deal is supposed to be concluded with them, or even discussions have taken place in this direction, and we can see that this issue should not be resolved in this way and not now. Once again, there are legitimate and controversial points in the package before us, but the legislative freak that lies before us as a result simply cannot stand the support of a fair, well-meaning opposition representative, because this is not about what you are saying about him. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-29-250	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak in the remaining time frame? [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kósa, please.
u2020-06-29-251	Mr. President. Dear House, I'm telling my fellow harvester that he sees horrors. What you're saying doesn't work mathematically. If Csíki tried to serve 20 percent of the Hungarian beer market, it would not be possible. So he doesn't have that much production, and he doesn't have it with Pécs. So it's quite obvious that what you're saying is simply confabulation, has no basis for reality. I want Foton to be a fotian beer, to drink Chokonai water in Debrecen, to drink Pávai-Vajna mineral water in Hajduszoboszló at the spa festival, to drink Borsodi mineral water at the jelly festival. These are all excellent, special products, because Nestlé and Coca-Cola are confiscating the market with an exclusive contract. So what you're saying is not true. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] On the other hand, I say this to Dániel Z. Kárpát and my fellow Member Arató, I am aware that, in order to propose what the Legislative Committee formally proposed, it is not mine personally, but I do not want to deny that it has been inspired by me by the Legislative Committee, it cannot work if we do not touch the rules of the Competition Authority, and if we do not install this power that can be dealt with, the President of the Competition Office. I intend to present a proposal to this House in September that will return to this debate. So it is very simple: if we look at this in the traditional legislative agenda, it is roughly a month and a half for the whole market to see that if it sees that we want to change this regulation, they will conclude for five years contracts to freeze the market. Since the regulation cannot have retroactive effect, so if we are not completely clumsy, what we are doing is to stop this now, during these four days we cannot freeze the market, and on a number of issues we still need to open the trade law, and you will have an excellent opportunity to do so, as you have said, with Parliamentary debates, amendments, full consultation or involvement of those involved, if you like it, although I have done so myself, we will amend the trade law in such a way that, in the case of the opposition, if that is possible, and otherwise, it will not allow us to conclude exclusivity agreements with the law, so that the market will use it, otherwise, during the month and a half of Parliament's debate, everyone will conclude those exclusive contracts with the large manufacturers for five years, with which the next change will occur sometime in 2025. So there is a very simple explanation for what you object to, but I think that this can be tabled, and we will return to this in September, by the way, with the necessary amendment of the competition law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-29-252	Thank you. Again, I'd like to ask you if someone else would like to speak out against your remaining time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Péter Banai Benő, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-06-29-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to react very briefly to what has been said and, first, to begin by thanking you again. Given that the intention of the bill setting up the budget for 2021 before you to amend more than forty laws only raised a debate on one or two issues, I conclude that the overwhelming majority of the proposal submitted is in agreement with the honourable Parliament. [[18.50]] As regards today's criticisms, as regards the amendment of the Trade Act, let me just note that next year's budget is called the budget for economic protection. If the amendment to the Trade Act can make smaller companies with higher employment positions and market access, then I think that we are taking a step forward in order to maintain the level of employment or to recreate jobs that have been destroyed by a coronal virus epidemic. As regards the regulation of the kata, I would like to draw the attention of Mr Gergely Arató and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa's attention to the fact that the motion submitted does not, in itself, affect persons who are taxed according to the catalogue. Our intention is to narrow down the abuse with the kata, to rule out abuse. Allow me to present some information to you. In 2013, only 3 percent of the Katát voters had previously employed, and by the end of 2019 almost 150,000 of the 377 thousand of them were previously employed, most often in employment. The vast majority of those who chose a new catalogue, according to cata, were employed. What do we see? We see that many employers, many companies, send their colleagues in their normal employment relationships and force them to do so. According to the person, a tax worker does not carry out a free business activity where he acquires his income from a number of customers, but is practically employed by a specific employer, I can say that he is under a fake contract. That's what we're gonna do. This action can and must be taken by the National Tax and Customs Office, but also by means of regulation we must ensure that all businesses and employers who have carried on this activity do not do so in the future. Therefore, the proposal before you is that if an employer pays over HUF 3 million to a person who is taxing according to a cata, he should pay 40 percent tax to a value exceeding HUF 3 million. I also draw the attention of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát to what he has put on the table, and I absolutely agree with you when it draws attention to social security relations. Individuals who pay taxes according to kata and pay HUF 50,000 a month for their income of HUF 1 million will, of course, be entitled to a later pension, but this pension amount will be quite small. So, if you will, this motion will lead employers in the direction of not engaging normal workers in fake contracts. One last thing about this: we can see now that the tax relationship under the cata, if someone, as a normal employee, is working, does not constitute a labour immunity of the same kind as an employee's legal relationship. So when companies decide who they're sending out, it's obviously a lot easier to let a cat entrepreneur go. In this respect, I therefore believe that the legal relationship of normal workers is protected by that undertaking, and that it helps to ensure that the possibility of a free, original intention company is not affected, and I can, as appropriate, confirm that the taxation under the catalogue is more favourable than that under the Eva tax system. Last thought: the motion concerning Katat may have just come before the Honourable Parliament, but for months there has been a debate before the public, the Ministry of Finance has consulted a number of organisations, and several organisations, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, have long advocated amendments. In practice, the government and the Legislative Committee have adopted and submitted to the Honourable Parliament an amendment which has long been promoted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-29-254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, will give his speech after the agenda: "How much longer? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-255	Mr President, Dear House, I am angry, and the reason for my anger is that, in the midst of parliamentary eulogy, there is a social and social disaster unfolding. There was a Parliamentary consensus on the need for a moratorium on loan repayment for the whole year, and I hold that perhaps even a little longer, because the economic crisis that is just beginning to unfold has been unfortunate to the tens of thousands of our compatriots, in bad cases it can bring up to hundreds of thousands of them into a situation where they cannot repay their real or dubious debts. At the same time, we see that the pro-government proposal to put an end to the emergency has also started ticking the auction hours again, and as a result of the auctions, mass evictions can already take place in Hungary this summer, because although the moratorium on the repayment of loans is largely maintained, this does not apply to evictions until the end of the year. I therefore demand the immediate introduction of the eviction moratorium and its conduct through Parliament, and I cannot accept the insolence that, although I am submitting a motion on this issue, Fidesz-KDNP will only want to negotiate it in the autumn, when hundreds of families, in bad cases, can be put on the streets even thousands. Situations that are quite unimaginable come to face, and we must not make a political issue out of this. If there is a national minimum, then it should be in Hungary that we do help our fellow countrymen on the side of the road against a sophisticated banking system, which is an ally of this government, since the Government of Hungary has not yet broken down that federal agreement with the banks concerned, which allows fishing in confusion and disorderly fishing. I am thinking of the 2015 EBRD pact, where the Government of Hungary papered it in English, by the way, it can still be found on the government's website that it does not want to put a forint's burden on the banks concerned in order to settle the situation of Hungarian people and victims. Meanwhile, credit victims and civilians are constantly working on it, on the one hand, during eviction, to provide legal assistance and, on the other, to prevent the unsustainable, terrible situation from being prevented by legislative changes. And, well, there are a lot of changes to the rules on implementation in their circles in order that, if someone objects to implementation, this should indeed have suspensive effect on his case. If it will not be, and the current pro-government regulation remains in place, crowds can act like the family in Hódmezővásárhely, which has lost its home in the face of alleged abuse and abuse, even though the court has given the family the truth, the house, the property, was sold at the auction, and by the time the family could have got it back, the family home that they had worked for for generations has already been sold to a third party who had written in good faith. And when they try to get their own home, their habitat back, they spread their hands, because the third party who bought it got it in good faith, there's nothing to do, and in good times they can expect compensation. My proposal, which I only convey, only articulate the wishes of civilians, clearly refers to the fact that if there is an objection that can be assessed against implementation, then the court must order that an auction may not take place until the matter of the family concerned is investigated under fair conditions. Once again, this must not be a political issue. In recent years, more than ten thousand families have been expelled from their homes without accommodation. Any republic that calls itself a nation state, democracy, would be ashamed of such indicators. What our proposal attempts to do is to stop further madness, further cataclysm. Yes, there are many solutions ahead of us, with the HUFing of loans at the rate of admission, these contracts could still be recast, bringing them back into the framework of fairness, channeling them back. But until this is done, mass evictions without accommodation should not take place in Hungary, especially during crisis years, during crisis months, but as long as we are debating this in Parliament, we will at least achieve that where there is a thorough excuse for execution, a family should not be able to go there to auction its home, sell it to someone else, and then not be able to recover it. This could be the cornerstone of a democratic national minimum, in which I feel that we should have the support of all good fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[19.00]]
u2020-06-29-256	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi, representative of Fidesz, is as follows: Here you go.
u2020-06-29-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary was well protected against the worldwide coronal virus epidemic. This is due to the quick and professional measures of the government, the preparedness of Hungarian professionals and the discipline of the Hungarian population. I am a representative of a constituency in Veszprém County, and I live in Ajka, a city where one of the epidemic hospitals operates and operates, in which not only the region, but also the Covid patients from all over the country. The first phase of the epidemic in Hungary is in check, so we can slowly withdraw the balance of the months left behind. This is also important because many misconceptions, incitements, false news and lies have spread among the population, not only in social media, but also in the official newspaper of Ajka, the editor-in-chief of the Ajkai Word and the left-right-hand Member of Parliament in the region. They lied about deliberately infecting tens of thousands of patients, athletes, to carry out human trials on their blood plasma in the most severe condition of patients; that they would shut down the lip hospital, that the hospital would be a paid private hospital; that dozens of residents would be infected in Ajka and that there would still be a list of systematically produced false and rumours. We are, of course, also looking forward to the judgments following the complaint. But let's look at reality and facts. His lips were the first to be transformed into an epidemic hospital by Magyar Imre Hospital. His lips were the only hospital that switched full capacity to supply Covid as a multifunctional hospital. In three and a half months, 516 patients were treated with Covid. He's currently in the care of a Covid patient, isolated in the field of infectology. We can be proud that Aikan has not been infected by a single health care worker, because he has been gradually trained, trained by the workers who have complied with professional standards. During the epidemic, there wasn't a single patient-satisfaction in the hospital. Before the epidemic, 13 patients were able to breathe at the same time in the facility, and there is now a stand for 140 people in the facility. From 3 June, the hospital's outpatient and inpatient care activities were scheduled to commence. Everyone goes through screening when they enter the hospital. Because of the epidemic, patient care can only be gradually restored by strict rules. The hospital is scheduled to operate at full capacity from mid-July. On the 1st of July, employees in all health care, economic, technical and IT fields will receive the HUF 500,000 allowance. Thanks and thanks for the professional and conscientious work of all the workers at the Lip Hospital. They really are heroes. Thanks to the outpatient health workers of Veszprém, papal, Tapolca and Sümeg for welcoming the patients and caregivers of Ajka, Tapolca, Sümeg and Balatonfelvidék. I thank volunteers for their assistance, for the offerings of companies and individuals and, of course, for the patience and discipline of the people of your lips. Today we can say that we have succeeded together, Ayka has settled. And his lips are ready again for traditional hospital care at Magyar Imre Hospital. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-29-258	Thank you very much. Member László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition, is:. Széchenyi v. Orbán. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I consider the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge to be a real national matter, and therefore as a capital resident, as a member of the Parliament of the capital, I felt it my duty to raise my voice on the long haul around the reconstruction of the bridge. I believe that the renovation that now triggers such a political debate, which should be a simple technical issue and a preservation of wealth and stability, instead a great political struggle took place. I need the city dwellers to know and see what the reason for that is, I see on government television regularly at night that they have known for ten years and twenty years that this has to be renewed. Yes, in 2002, there were already reports that the renovation of the Chain Bridge was really important, but it was even more important and even life-threatening to renovate the Margaret Bridge, which is connected to the HÉV, connected to Margaret Island, the tram, and twice a two-track road, so because of the huge traffic in the city, the first renovation of the bridge took place, and by 2011, when it was finished, it would have been possible to start renovating this bridge. Six years ago, there were plans to renovate the bridge, despite the fact that the six years passed, only in the year of the election the public tender for the renovation was launched, even the previous Fidesz-led majority of the Metropolitan Municipality. Interestingly, about two weeks before the election, the public procurement procedure was declared null and void, so the current metropolitan administration inherited that it had to be restarted, and in the meantime, of course, the political drafts had started in this regard. I think that if this is indeed the relic of the nation, because 171 years ago, when this bridge was handed over, and Széchenyi has inexhaustible merit that this bridge was built, the fact is that it was almost the health of it, because the construction of the bridge was carried out not so much by the physical power of Széchenyi as by the then capitalists of the Monarchy, but not by the Hungarian so-called national nobility, but by those who were from the so-called foreign territories of the Monarchy, so-called Bulgarians, Austrians, Greeks, Bavarians, Jews and Swiss. The Swiss is only raised by the fact that Abraham Ganz was of Swiss origin, and he made the iron structures with a discount. I believe that such a debate still took place, that this bridge must be built, and that, if necessary, will be contributed by the then nobility, the then new capitalism capital class. I think that we have a national oligarch now, but we do not have the offer that was missing at the time, it was handed over 171 years ago or 171 years ago after 20 years of preparation, and we are also dealing with the problem of there being no volunteers to build this bridge, and therefore the city's leadership is forced to do so from the tax forints of the citizens of the city. While different if I wanted to be a little demagog for stadiums outside the border and within the limits there is money available for office furniture for HUF 20 billion, there is not enough national value for this bridge to renovate this bridge with public money, government support. I think that this is our shame, and this shows that we do not dare to face real national issues, we do not dare, and we are cowards to say that this bridge is renewed with government support even if the majority is the opposite, the left. I would like to call on the Government of Hungary to treat the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge as a national matter. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-260	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, representative of the Democratic Coalition, will be following: Where are the jobs promised? It's an address. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2020-06-29-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I don't know, you've noticed that some very nasty mental illness may be affecting representatives of the government and the ruling party. Their long-term memory is so strong that they keep talking about the eight years past ten years, but somehow they forget about the events that have taken place in the last three months. Remember? It was one of the rare moments when the Prime Minister and all the Fidesz MEPs around him were in Parliament. That is when Viktor Orbán promised to create as many jobs as the plague, the virus, will destroy, in the course of two lenient, educational, arrogant and pompous rejoinders. Then a few weeks later, another visit to Parliament, where another promise from Orbán, I could say that there is a kind of calming: relax, relax, for three months you will receive a job search support for all the Hungarian workers who have lost their jobs. I'm just telling you otherwise, I don't know if you've noticed, but you're not getting one. Operatives, small family livelihoods, and a good part of the catnip simply don't get it, they don't get it. And for anyone who does, there's no way to log in to the system, because the system, God-given, won't even give an appointment for weeks to months, let alone job search support. We'll find out after another few weeks, of course, in the framework of another pompous and arrogant government lecture, that the government is interested in the work, that they are building a work-based society, not in aid, because the aid is probably some kind of opposition lozunge. That's good, because the employees would believe in work, I'd signal it quietly, that is, they'd just believe, not the fairy-tale job search support. Why am I telling you it's fabulous? Because, you know, the story is like where it was, where it wasn't. Unfortunately, in the Hungarian system, Orbán's stinking system, it wasn't more than it was, because, apparently, this is almost unbelievable for the head of the government, but everyone would rather work for normal wages, I say, than swallow their tears waiting for the shortest job search support in the world, most of all not getting it. Then another few weeks will pass, hundreds of thousands of workers without work, living and real government and unfortunately job search support, but what God gives, the Prime Minister will visit Parliament again, the fidesz horseshoe will be full again, and the slightly foggy new Prime Minister's promise will be made: but there will really be work for everyone, the rusty prick, or if not, then the condemned will feel free to turn to the government. Do you remember that? Then what happens? You see, you could turn directly to the Prime Minister, and then he'll give you a job. But to prevent anyone from thinking that this work in the Carmelite monastery might be cucumber-leavening or mowing the grass in the balcony on the road, the head of the government will be very specific: the young strong will become soldiers, and the rest of them will be public workers. A soldier or a public worker is this new government narrative. Please, this new Orbán future, which Orbán wants to provide for Hungary, is capable of providing, and which in itself is creepy, especially if we know that the wages of public workers have not increased since 2017. Thus, in the case of full-time employment that does not require qualifications or secondary education, the public-employed monthly gross wage is 81 530 forints, of which they tax, of course, because we know very well that the stadiums are expensive, the family is hungry, the dear son-in-law loves money very much, and Papa would also like to withdraw a billion-dollar dividend, and let's not talk about Orbán's gas mechanic. In the end, these people will receive HUF 54 217 net. But now we know that young strong men, as the Prime Minister has determined, can't afford to make a lot of money, even if they even undertake the special voluntary reserve military service, because their wages wouldn't be worth a hundred thousand forints. If they would, but we know very well that everyone is screaming and running away from this opportunity. Obviously, we can see that this is not the vision that the Hungarian people are waiting for, and let's just say that the government's propaganda has lived for three months and failed badly. No community service, no military, no money. Once again, the government and Viktor Orbán lied an orbital great lie. The question is still unanswered: where are the jobs promised, Prime Minister? Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-262	Thank you very much. Congressman Lóránt László Keresztes, the leader of the LMP faction, can speak now about the situation in the countryside. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At today's meeting of the Parliament, during the debate Prime Minister Viktor Orbán replied to my question immediately that it was not necessary to protect the countryside, because today's Hungarian government has been pursuing a rural-friendly policy for ten years. And what I can say is that, seeing the demographic trends in the countryside, the poverty, seeing the difficult situation of peripheral small settlements, we will not stand by and watch the rural-destructive policy that the Hungarian government is pursuing. We see these processes, and all the criticisms expressed by the government in relation to the period before 2010 are correct and appropriate, but unfortunately, this government has not changed the perception of peripheral rural areas in any way, we see no change of any kind that would give these areas hope that the breakdown could be stopped at least. Unfortunately, if we look at the numbers of the budget for 2021, we can see that rural areas cannot count on the Fidesz government and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in the future. Just a few problems worth mentioning. In the course of the debate, it was suggested that the government, lying to a so-called epidemiological agenda, had virtually eliminated personal transport on 34 railway sidelines. There is no economic and professional rationality behind this, and the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV has made this very clear, and more than 40 municipalities have already protested the outrageous measure. No one can seriously think that in an epidemiological situation the replacement bus would be safer for the travelling audience than the significantly larger railway car. This is a continuation of the same Balliberal Railroad Destroyer policy, which, by the way, was rightly spoken out of the Fidesz opposition. Similarly, we can see that the withdrawal of the motor vehicle tax is the biggest hit on small settlements. This was not formulated by us opposition representatives, but by the various associations of local governments bringing together small settlements. They said that, according to their surveys, about two thirds of small settlements will have a specific liquidity problem with the take-off of the vehicle tax. Again, this is a specific punishment for those living there, since these municipalities will no longer be able to contribute to the maintenance of different public services to the same extent as they have done so far. It is also a very, very serious system problem, and we have discussed this a lot at the Parliament meeting, the water utility sector, we can say, close to bankruptcy. We know that professional organisations and various local government associations estimate the missing amount between HUF 1500 and HUF 3000 billion for the amount needed for the proper maintenance and replacement work over a 15-year horizon. We also know that due to the reduction of the costs and the sector's special tax, a large part of the water supply companies are practically on the verge of bankruptcy. This is particularly difficult for rural areas, since we know that the imposition of public works tax is disproportionate here, because in rural areas that are rarely populated there are fewer residents and fewer consumers for the given length of the pipeline, so there is a much greater burden on their proportions. We can also see that in recent years, when the government threw some kind of minimum lifeline to the sector, it helped the large five regional water suppliers, but it did not help the municipal service companies typically operating in rural areas at all. We also know that small settlements in extremely difficult situations cannot afford the necessary contribution so that these companies can stay on their feet. We must say that, in the medium term, the supply of drinking water has been put at risk not only in rural areas, but also in the entire territory of the country, the Hungarian people can face this serious problem. We need to refer to one more data, the extremely high, poor condition of the lower roads. We know from official statistics that today in Hungary there are 17 thousand kilometres of inferior routes in the wrong or the wrong category. It is possible to abuse the previous Balliberal Government, but it can be seen that this problem is not resolved, the government is not moving towards the solution, but the problem is increasing, so every year more and more, the number of roads that need to be renovated is increasing, and we can say that the proportion of roads where renovation is no longer possible is practically to be rebuilt. Like this year, next year's budget will be used by the government to renovate only 400-500 kilometers of roads. So you are also idly watching this deterioration, this problem, and not solving the problem, but increasing its level. In this spirit, the LMP has tabled a great deal of amendments to the development of rural areas, but we have seen that the government has irresponsiblely voted all of them down. At the same time, we have two proposals before the National Assembly, one for the rescue of railway sidelines and the establishment of a single transport system that takes account of railway sidelines, and we would really turn this into a meaningful transport opportunity for the Hungarian people, the rural people, in a regional system. On the other hand, we are also proposing to the Parliament to save the water utility sector. Thank you very much. [[19.20]]
u2020-06-29-264	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, will be following:, These could be our common affairs. Here you go.
u2020-06-29-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, that could be our common cause on both sides of the parliamentary horseshoe. And one of the joint cases could be Cegléd's case and the problem of the 400-kilk pipeline at Cegléd's border. About the problem itself and the 400-kilo line, it is important to know that Mavir started the construction and started designing this feed-in method precisely for Kecskemét and probably for the Mercedes plant, precisely so that it can supply the expanding capacity with electricity. In itself, the need for pipelines for economic development is beyond discussion, but the place in which this goes and how it affects the lives of those living there is already under discussion. And here comes the case of Cegléd, which faced the question of a relatively large and otherwise rather nasty-looking pipeline between Albertirsa and Kecskemét, because this area is perhaps uniquely populated by a very densely populated farmland area, unlike my home, Karcag; here is a different type of farm life, organized in a different way, so there are a lot of people living in the farmhouses around the village, in the area of Cegléd, and they are particularly affected by the trail of the new line that is now being drawn over their heads. Since 2017, the population has been constantly protesting, with dozens of requests from both local governments and, by the way, representatives, mayors and even the authorities who are able to carry out lobbying activities in this case. In fact, there's been a lawsuit. In this litigation, the owners were successful at first, in the second case they were less successful, but the litigation process also took place. It was therefore considered why they were working, what the farmers in Cegléd would like to achieve, what the inhabitants of Cegléd would like to achieve. First of all, I would like to ask the Hungarian State for the protection of their own property, which, I think, is fully understandable, is one of the most secure points in our legal order, the sacrament of property and the inviolability of everyone's private property. And what they have raised, and rightly so, is that the health effects of such a pipeline are also significant. There are a lot of research that has shown the health risks associated with living close to such a pipeline. They would therefore also like to assert their right to their health. And an equally important right, the preservation of all of our built environments and the values of the natural environment, as we imagine how these 50-metre monstrums show in the otherwise hungaricum farmscape where they plan to build and how the very beautiful lowland landscape surrounding Cegléd will look with such a wire. In any case, the residents are not asking that such an investment should not be made, they are not asking that such a pipeline should not be built, they are asking that what man has planned, and what can be changed, and what one is planning to do is changed, so change the trail of this pipeline, and go to a place where private property is less damaged, where health is not damaged, and otherwise does not impair the view. Now is the time for a cooperation that is often lacking here in Parliament by the pro-government representatives; now should the pro-government representative slam on the table and say that in his constituency, in his neighbourhood, his home should not be built that way, or that way, the path should not be taken on this path. To sum up, the residents of Cegléd are asking for nothing other than to respect their property, protect their health and protect national and natural built values. All you can ask for is this, and that's what the Cegléds are asking for, and they're asking for the government's support, and they're asking for it to be designed elsewhere, to modify the trail, and to leave their territory alone. Together, let us preserve the built and natural environment of Cegléd and the surrounding settlements! Thank you very much.
u2020-06-29-266	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will take place on 1 July 2020. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. Good evening, everyone.
