u2020-10-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, I am once again fulfilling my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Attila Tarnóczky obtained his mandate as candidate for the Hungarian Democratic Forum in the second constituency of Zala County at the first free parliamentary elections, and he was a representative of the region for a period of time. During his term of office, he was Vice-President of the Municipal Committee of the Parliament, deputy mayor of Nagykanizsa from 1998 and representative of the county and city assembly for several cycles. He researched the history of the city of Nagykanizsa as a winner of the Podmaniczky Prize. He passed away 75 years of his life. Sándor Szili is a member of the first Parliament after the change of regime; between 1990 and 2002 he was a representative of the MSZP for three parliamentary periods. First he obtained a mandate from the party's national list and then from the 27th constituency of Budapest. During his term of office, he was Vice-President of the Defence Committee and notary of the Parliament. He died in the 81st year of his life. László Mandur, former Vice-President of the Parliament, also former politician of the MSZP and president of its capital organization, was a Member of Parliament for three cycles between 2002 and 2014. During his term of office, he served as Vice-President of the Parliament for eight years. He was a member of the Cultural and Press Committee of the Parliament and the Board of the Public Service Foundation. In addition to his political, public activities, he worked as an engineer, an economist and a photographer. Photos appeared at both domestic and foreign exhibitions. László Mandur lived 62 years. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room salute the memory of the deceased with a silent standing.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, In 2016, both Hungarian and Bulgarian legislation decided to declare 19 October a day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Thus, our countries can celebrate this day together, further deepening and strengthening cooperation and friendship between the two peoples. That year the Bulgarian community also celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. On this day, the two peoples commemorate their Christian roots chosen as the basis of their faith and culture. October 19th is the day of St. John Csodávő, the saint of the Orthodox Church, the father of the Bulgarian recluse. Hungarian-related part of the legend of the holy man is that III. When King Béla heard the miraculous power of the artifact, it was decorated with gold and silver that he returned to the Bulgarian Church. The Hungarians and Bulgarians were more than once comrades in the storms of history. We often received support from our Bulgarian friends and felt their solidarity. Together we stopped the Ottoman-Turkish conquest, fought shoulder to shoulder in the battle of Varna in 1444. To this day in Bulgaria, a wreath is placed at the tomb of János Hunyadi, in several settlements on 15 March at the statue of Lajos Kossuth and István Dunyov. From time to time, our oppressors were the same, so our desire for freedom connects us. Thirty years ago, we entered the path of freedom and democracy at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Bulgarian community in Hungary are mainly descendants of Bulgarian gardeners who played a decisive role in boosting the production of vegetables in Hungary, with their expertise and diligence they rightly gained the sympathy and recognition of the Hungarian nation. Since 1914, gardeners and merchants have been present in institutional form, when the Bulgarian Association of Hungary was founded, and then in 1916 the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. Since then, they have been actively preserving their identity, cultivating their faith and culture, enriching Hungarian culture, and setting an example for the majority society from building a united and persistent community. This is reflected in the bronze relief of Rilai Szent János Wondermaker placed at the Basilica in Esztergom, which was erected by the Hungarian Bulgarian community. The memorial plaque of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship symbolizes the respect and respect of our peoples. We hope that the events of today's Memorial Day, the commemorations of today, will help to deepen the friendship of the two peoples and strengthen the community of Bulgarians living in Hungary. Dear House, It is now time for the speeches before the agenda. First, I give the floor to the leader of the Dialogue Group, Congresswoman Szabó Timea.
u2020-10-19-1	Ladies and gentlemen, We're down to nearly 1,200 fatalities, and on Saturday, we've had a record of a daily infection, and then 1,800 new patients have been identified. Nevertheless, Viktor Orbán still talks about everything from the homo christian to the tip mix, in order to draw attention to the fact that the government has practically released the epidemic. Orbán thinks that we do not see that Hungarian people are slowly but surely in danger of life. We've known since summer that what neither one of us wants will happen is a second wave of the coronal virus that's gonna be way beyond the first one. We have known since summer, but Viktor Orbán and his government have done nothing to reduce the spread of the epidemic. The second least test is carried out by us in proportion to the number of people in the whole EU, but only Bulgaria is behind us. According to the World Health Organization, the epidemic is under control if less than 5 percent of the tests are positive. If it's over 5 percent, you need to test more, and a positive ratio of more than 12 percent shows that the virus has been released. At the beginning of September we crossed the 5 percent limit in Hungary, and on 16 October the positive test rate was 13 percent, i.e. the reins were finally out of the hands of Viktor Orbán. It is no coincidence that the third highest death due to Covid is in Hungary in the EU, only more people died in Bulgaria and Romania now than we do. Governments have moved almost everywhere in Europe and they have taken precautions. In Slovenia, an exit ban was introduced in certain areas, in France a curfew was imposed from 9 p.m. in the evening, in the Czech Republic only half of the students are allowed to stay in the classroom at the same time, and in Italy they are already asking people to wear masks at home, and in all countries they have restricted the operation of catering facilities. At home, however, what do Viktor Orbán and Miklós Kásler do? He's still listening to the plague, letting people have a false sense of security. All because two long weekends are coming, and don't accidentally leave Lőrinc Mészáros' hotels empty. This is a despicable move by Viktor Orbán. What Kasler did was even worse. Last week, Miklós Kásler ordered that covid patients should not be taken to an institution, oncology facility, children's hospital or obstetrics. The question arises: for example, if someone has cancer but suffers from Covid, does he not receive care? Or if a child has a coronary virus, but, say, in an accident, he's unconscious, he's not being treated? What you're doing is incomprehensible. There is no substantive measure in their proposal for Friday night, and therefore we cannot support it, because it is not about protecting people, it is about pretend action or it is about a completely different area. For example, the Ministry of Interior has access to all school data, children, parents, teachers, but it also includes the Gambling Act or the concession law. This will not reduce the number of diseases, honourable Members. The truth is that Viktor Orbán is so terrified that he will lose his popularity by means of substantial measures that he is willing to sacrifice literally thousands of lives in order to maintain his power. [[13.20]] Viktor Orbán has more power than the security and life of the Hungarian people. On behalf of the Dialogue, we call for real measures to be taken. Let's test it more. Workers in education, health and social care should be tested every two weeks. The wages of healthcare workers must be increased by 80 percent immediately, so that we do not fall into patient care. Mass events shall be prohibited. Introduce restrictions in the service sector and replace the income of businesses and workers! Admitting home work as an employee's right, exactly so that the economy doesn't stop. And finally, introduce the basic income for crisis management. Only the basic income of the Dialogue crisis management can prevent thousands of families from going bankrupt. Only the basic income proposal of the Dialogue Crisis Management can be achieved so that every child can have dinner on the table at the end of the month. It is only the basic income support of the Dialogue that immediately reaches everyone, so that we can guarantee that the income of all the people who have lost their jobs reaches HUF 100,000 per month. We must not help Tiborczok, not Lőrinc Mészáros, not Rachel Orbán, my fellow Members, but the Hungarian people! Thank you.
u2020-10-19-2	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Congresswoman, to begin with the topic I have just raised, and to respond to that. If you are so keen to introduce the basic income, please go to Finland, where this was introduced, as a study trip. [[Szabó Timea: No introduction!]] [[Szabó Timea: No introduction!]] He failed badly, not least because it cost a lot of money, and he didn't have anyone else working for him, which is not surprising at all. (Szabó Timea: No introduction!) We see, honourable Member, that a strong campaign has been launched on the fact that the number of people who died in Hungary has exceeded 1,000. The left also wanted a processed video in this regard. I would like to say that, as you know very well, there is no vaccination against the virus, so unfortunately there is a strong increase in the number of infected people in Europe and throughout the world, and unfortunately many people are dying. In recent days, the number of new infected has reached a record in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Italy, Poland, Germany and Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and One single death is many, but in addition, if you look at the death-related cases, this is 11 per 100,000 people in Hungary, 3 times that in Romania, 4 times that in the much richer Netherlands, 6 times that in Sweden and 9 times that in Belgium. In addition, there are countries where if a patient with a coronal virus has a underlying disease, it is not the coronal virus that is the cause of death. That's all I wanted to say about the numbers. Now we're not surprised that you're campaigning on the number of deaths, and that's where your party, your Party, is involved. What I would like to say to you is that building a campaign on the death of people is unworthy, insensitive and heartless. [[Szabó Timea: You must protect them!]] I don't think we're the only ones who think that in these benches. Consider, for example, the statements of an unwelcome leftist publicist. He says more harshly than I do, he writes that I have seen many stomach-turning things in Hungarian politics, but this is in competition for the most depressing title, and later he writes that the number of people who died in Hungary is above the world average. So, honourable Member, please consider that it is right to pursue such an insensitive campaign, if it is ripping out the guarantee even for those who support you, and then we have not even discussed the right of the victims and their families to dignity. And that's not the only thing on their account: they've been rolling the fake news generator for the past few days. The health pay increase is called a scam, while it's based on the medical board's proposal. [[Szabó Timea: Ouch!]] That's what you're suggesting we're looking at right now. [[Moore in the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]] I don't think they're questioning him right now. Then one left-wing politician, Olga Kálmán, claims that there are not enough masks while significant reserves are available. To mention a rumor of an economic nature, it is said that the payments will increase, while due to the moratorium, only due to the moratorium, the payments will not increase. And we also remember very well, honourable Member, that you said that in Hungary the worst are mortality statistics, not in the region, not in Europe, but in the world. [[Szabó Timea: The domestic testing!]] Shame on you in hindsight. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Well, that's enough of your fake news tsunami, and that's because if you come in every day with fake news like this, we're gonna put these fake news in order every day, and we're gonna ask you a hundred times, at least in times of shakyness, to put the party blinders aside and not to cheer so spectacularly on the virus. [[Gergely Harvesting and Timea Szabó: Shame on you!]] Perhaps someday they will consider this request. [[Bence of Turdai: Sit down!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-4	Now it's time for Péter Ungár, as a representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There was a surprising development on Friday regarding the social policy of the Hungarian government, as Katalin Novák finally gave a real argument on why the government discriminates between caregivers at home and caregivers at home in terms of remuneration. At last we heard not the same Fidesz communication, which we heard seventy-four times, but a real answer. I would like to remind the House that in 2004, on the proposal of Márta Mátrai, Fidesz still wanted equal pay for caregivers, regardless of whether they are caring for children or elderly relatives. That's changed for the day. Katalin Novak said that the difference is that while children or children who, say, live with disabilities are cared for by one person, the elderly family, often living with dementia, are cared for by a family, so more people have to take care of their needs and therefore do not have to reward this activity in the same way. The fact is that this sentence shows what you are accusing us of many times, that you have little idea of what families live in Hungary, how they solve old-age care and what it means for a family. Many times, it is a huge luxury to have a single person who can afford to take care of the elderly, Mr Dömötör, Secretary of State, because 38 thousand or 58 thousand forints is not enough to make up for the loss of the labour market for someone. That's the fact. So it is a matter for one person to do so, because older care cannot be solved while, as a member of the sandwich generation, it has to take care of its own children and, say, its own mother and the care of four people have to be managed on a salary of one and a half. It's not a real thing, it's not a lifelike thing. What Katalin Novak said is that you think that people live in the social and family structure in which they lived in your coloring book in the '50s, but that's not the case anymore. 49 percent of children were born out of wedlock, whatever your moral opinion on this is, it's a fact, and therefore, the role of the state in the care of the elderly is already needed. The thing is, old-age care is an area of family policy that you don't care about. Older care is for you a thing that can only be put on by families, they do not think that these elderly people have worked 40-50 years, paid social security, contributed to the Hungarian state register, and deserve decent ageing, not 38 and 58 thousand forints, but the minimum wage for those who care for them. But there's something else. From January this year, the Ministry of Human Resources has encrypted the waiting lists for elderly care. There's no way to know where the waiting lists are at the moment. The Secretary of State, Rétvári, justified this with an IT development. I can't imagine how much Chewbacca protection is, because there's an IT development, you've lost all the data on which you have to pay for the normative. So it's an absolute absurdity. It is just that sooner or later they want to miss the fact that since 2010, the Orbán government has expanded zero public retirement homes. Zero! It's real. The waiting lists have grown dynamically over the past few years. There is a shortage of professionals, which makes it very difficult, even in an institutional expansion, for more and more people to care for them in better conditions, because according to you, there are seven thousand people missing from the social sector, because under your governance, the social sector workers are basically earning the guaranteed minimum wage, HUF 178 thousand, and therefore there will be no worthy elderly care in Hungary. [[13.30]] Even though the number of seats is encrypted, those who care for their elderly relatives at home will receive 38 or 58 thousand forints, the Hungarian people agree that elderly care is the responsibility of all of us, and if this government does not arrange the elderly care, another government will take care of it in 22 years. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-6	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2020-10-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When you say those sentences with great vehemency, honourable Member, that the elderly must be given the respect with which I fully agree and provide security to the elderly, be so kind as to wink to the 22nd time: this should not have been taken away from pensioners during your own prime minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, while campaigning for László Bíró, did you mention that, Mr. Ferenc Gyurcsány, during his own prime ministership, you should not have given it away instead? And it shouldn't have taken away a month's pension, it should have increased the value of pensions! Perhaps we should not have talked about old wives, but should have given respect to those who have lived among us longer. Did you tell him these sentences? Do you think that those who have repeatedly, when the IMF has just sent a message from one of the financial centers that it should now be from pensioners, have taken any benefits from them in a second... can be expected of this government to do anything else, so that if you do not give them, God, they will be taken back into government? You argue for those who have reduced the benefits of the elderly. We know your quote to Lajos Korózs, honourable Member, that the neighbors and relatives and friends will... [[Lajos Korózs: That's not how it was said! You're always lying!]] You told me in InfoRadio, Congressman. In InfoRádio, therefore, thanks to God, it is possible to listen to everyone when they have reduced the basic normative in nursing homes and reduced the priority normative in nursing homes. You have asked us questions several times and have been given numerical answers on how much capacity has increased in nursing homes since 2010. Every year, you ask me that question several times, and I give you these answers in writing. Do not say to the public that you did not receive an answer when you received numerical information on capacity expansion, honourable Member. Yes, it seems that there are still traces of your conscience, because it was you who, a few years ago, and a half years ago, in this House, did not vote for the introduction of a child's home care fee. If anyone has a record of really difficult children, difficult parents, it's exactly you who would have had a single push of a button to do that. But they didn't! What effort would it require? We voted from the pro-government side from the first Member to the last. You were in this room, and all you had to do was go to your computer and press that button. But he doesn't understand that. There wasn't a man at the faction meeting who would have suggested that there was a question, that there were very difficult children, that they couldn't take care of themselves, that the government would raise their benefits to multiples, so let's support this one. ? No, it wasn't important. It was only the political atmosphere that was important to you. To whom you have just campaigned, Ferenc Gyurcsány, do you know how much you have spent on supporting these difficult families, nursing fees? How much was in his budget? 15 billion forints. How much is in the current budget? 55 billion forints. And you're telling me that the Prime Minister who spent $15 billion on this is going to come back because it's the one who spends $55 billion on this? [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, He who takes care of his child, the most seriously ill child, at home is a superhuman work, really, with the hat off to everyone who does this, will receive an allowance of 3.3 times, more than three times higher than in 2010. Those who care for their relatives at home will receive 91 percent higher care than in 2010, honourable Member. Indeed, in 2010, there were a few tens of thousands of forints in this allowance, and indeed everyone could only speak of it in a blush. However, it is no longer a few ten thousand forints, but it is now 123 910 forints, and next year we will raise this award, and we will increase it again in the following year, you know that we have adopted a law on this, and we have also created a cover for this. In fact, even the support for home creation has been designed in such a way as to be a pity that it did not pay attention to this sentence to the Ministry without a new wallet, that those who receive weeds will always be entitled to home renovation aid, regardless of the age of the child, even if the child is not 10 years old, but 30, 35 or 40, we will continue to grant them this discount, honourable Member. We introduced that those who really cared for their own child for twenty years in their own household, and therefore have a lower pension, should have an extra HUF 50,000 to count on the service time to obtain pension rights and health insurance rights for those who care for their children at home. These could have been done by the former governments, but none of the former governments in Hungary did, but only the Fidesz-KDNP government, honourable Member. As regards the number of people working in the social sphere, you know that 5764 people worked on home assistance in 2010, for example. How many people are working now? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] 19 397, because we have raised the norm of this supply from 145 thousand forints to 330,000 forints. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-8	Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK, also came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2020-10-19-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, We all know the wonderful ballad of János Arany from the Welsh bards, where King Edward, when faced with the fact that no bard is willing to praise him, chooses the path of violence and self-indulgent. And the command is given by / Király terrible: / On the pyre, who opposes, / Every singer withkelsz!?This is what the general of Hungarians, who is increasingly less and less able to hear artists express their opinions on social issues, often contrary to the government's success prognosis. So the retribution, if not by bonfire, has been fine-tuned over the centuries, but it has become an MMA, film commissioner, theater law and the manual control of the theaters, and now the 150-year-old flagship of the Hungarian arts training, the SZFE has taken place. I do not wish to speak for the citizens of the SZFE, they speak for themselves and for the freedom of all Hungarian higher education, much more eloquent and effective than we politicians can do. But there is a part of this case that belongs to this House, and that is the shameful cowardice and lies of the government. Minister Gulyás and Minister Palkovics also say that the government is not part of the debate over the SFE that government supervision over the university has ceased. Let me be clear, it's just a lie. The founding rights over the Foundation of the SZFE are currently exercised on behalf of the Government by the Minister of the ITM. It's your board of trustees, you've appointed it, you can excuse it, you're responsible for what you're doing. Let us briefly see what the board has done over the past few months. For example, on 24 August, the Board of Governors unilaterally adopted the new charter without consulting the university's current leadership and thereby deprived the Senate of all its substantive powers. After that, the organisational order was revised again, in order to enable the maintenance board to appoint deputy rectors without any proposal or opinion and to entrust them with institution management. Then they added that he had removed the previously appointed but respected chancellor, who had been appointed by the government, and instead appointed a worthy bureaucrat in uniform. On the basis of the current situation, these measures are clearly contrary to the European University Charter, the Bologna Charter or even the Basic Law. They also make it clear that the model of privatization at the university you set up is not suitable for guaranteeing autonomy and for normal functioning and work at all. When it was discovered that university citizens could not be bought, intimidated, divided, the level of oppression had been levelled, they had now entrusted to a trained military officer, a bureaucrat in uniform, to break the protest. He does his job without remorse: he shuts down the Internet, changes the locks, orders an illegal fall break, or wants students thrown out of their own university by maintenance and doormen. I'd like to ask you, what's next? Police or military are being deployed against protesters. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what you guys do.]] like the Greek colonels or Pinochet? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gergényi!]] And of course, the hand may belong to the magpie, but the brain, the ultimate responsibility of the government, belongs to Viktor Orbán! That is why we are telling you that it is not too late to stop on this path, to expel the professionally failed, inadequate curatorium and party soldiers from the institution. [[13.40]] Restoring legitimate operation, university autonomy, and then normalising the university's future by negotiating. If they don't, then the government is responsible for everything that's ahead of us and what's going to happen in this institution. And don't forget the closing lines of the Welsh bards: But beyond music, beyond the whistle drum, / Through the alarm horn: / Five hundred sings loudly / The song of the martyrs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-19-10	Mr. Sándor Bodo has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Well, even here in Parliament, we rarely hear such excessive talk, when, for example, we should compare it to a cleaning measure, let's say, a cavalry attack. So, Congressman, I think that we should calm down and actually look at what is going on with this measure. There is absolutely no terrorism, no police attack. So these, please, do not mix them here, because this is not only a source of mood, but also a barrier to the solution. We need to think about what is happening with the change of model, and slowly in this storm, which you are generating significantly and not students of the university, it seems that the point is lost: the change of model. The change of model, which has started perfectly in many universities, works, since we all see that intellectual training and economic development are important everywhere. We need a rapid and flexible response to daily needs. I don't think you can argue that either. Employment is done under completely normal conditions, the labor code is the standard, so the country works. And it is not an extraordinary example of what you are referring to here, because, for example, the Austrian model is quite similar. Allow me to quote in particular: on the basis of pre-set performance indicators, there is a medium-term financing taking into account the specificities of different tasks. Under these circumstances, I think that it is possible and necessary to run an institution. With regard to the University of Theatre and Film Arts, you can see what the goal is: a modern course, a modern university of theatre art is needed, and no one disputes it. A nationally and internationally recognised knowledge centre should be set up, one that is ready and open to corporate and market cooperation. We need more flexible employment opportunities. I think that they would welcome this in a lot of workplaces. Public procurement facilitations are possible and a longer-term, predictable public funding. Maybe when these waves get this high, it's all worth thinking about and putting an extra or a minus sign behind it so that we can agree with them. The change of model gives the institution the opportunity to settle the infrastructure situation, and it is indeed a major development path, where public engagement in this respect is much smaller and can provide a supportive background. And what you have said, I must deny it, for you have said that there have been no negotiations, or not at that level. Well, for calendar days and hours, it is listed here what discussions have taken place with the Ministry of Innovation and Technology on February 17, 22, April, May, video conference, personal encounter. So what I see is that all these conciliation processes have been conducted, and there is no way that anyone has gone too far from the solution. We also need to see that the State Audit Office has drawn attention to a number of problems regarding the university; I note, not now, but ten years ago. Ten years ago, he identified serial and recurrent irregularities, and I believe that he may be 34 but not so many, but he defined in 38 points the measures that must be taken. The university's management carried out four of these, and was willing to correct or improve four of them. That's not a very good ratio, let's face it. After all, we are talking about state forints, even if, as I said, the state takes a half step back on this issue and leaves the management of professional decisions to a board of trustees. It must be seen that this debate is, by the way, entirely visible in an internal professional debate at the university, where prestigious arts experts clash, unfortunately they do not exchange views, but rather conflict. I believe that this must be resolved by these professionals inside the house. And what you have visualized is that some kind of I don't know what kind of terror appears, well, it's not like that. Today, the university students thought that they were strengthening their thoughts with a street comment, and no one bothered them, so there's an opportunity, no one hurt them, but the solution is obviously, if these things are decided by a negotiating table. Please, you'd rather help me do this than alert people and spread this kind of misrepresentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-12	Now it's time for Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In advance, let me ask the members of the Government and my fellow Members of the Fidesz who are sitting here the question of what the hell you are doing. There's an epidemic, there's an economic crisis, there's a social crisis, and you're not doing anything about it; but it's definitely not what you should be doing. The number of sick people increases by more than a thousand a day, but that's only because that's roughly what the lab capacity is. What have they been doing all summer? I understand that you think the sea had to be seen in order to avoid prison, but shouldn't you be prepared? They knew exactly what the second wave was coming. Now they have no idea how many people got sick, how many people carry the virus. It's completely impossible to defend itself effectively against the virus. You're basically looking at the spread of the epidemic with alibi activity. They said they wouldn't stop the country. But what about those who are still upset with their daily lives, with the hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs and have no care anymore? With nearly 100,000 individual and small businesses whose turnover has ceased overnight, parents whose children have become ill and have to stay at home for at least three days, for whom a kindergarten school break has been ordered or whose children have been quarantined. What about them, what about their jobs, what about their freedom that they ran out of? They're in danger of their jobs! Schools look forward to the fall break as the Messiah, and families worry about their livelihoods. My fellow Members, the European governments acted immediately against the economic and social crisis. Budget resources have been targeted and significant additional resources have been included to reduce the social impact of the crisis. You did not substantially strengthen the social network, you did not guarantee the chance of survival for those who lost their reserves. They did not increase the unemployment benefit, they did not increase the amount, they did not extend its duration, they did not increase the benefits due to the right of the person. What do they do, though? They're putting in a bill on the grounds of an epidemic with urgency, which would settle in the gambling bill what's important to your oligarchs. It has also become extremely important for you that a private foundation led by the Secretary of State Balázs Orbán has access to valuable real estate elements, whether this is an ex-office casino in Pécs or the sailing port in Révfülöpöp. They don't even give it to appearances, because the Secretary of State himself admitted at the committee meeting that he was wearing two hats, on one side the state that was handing over the property, on the other hand, the private foundation that took over this property. In fact, he also stated that the reason why these properties will be better off than the private foundation is because he is the wrong owner of the state. Well, that's not what we've heard from you. But when money is needed to help small entrepreneurs in the capital from tourism and tourism in an impossible situation, there is no money for it, this proposal is rejected. The foam on the cake is that the candidate who spends zero minutes on the court track, who is rejected by the judiciary, is to be elected head of the Curia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a moment of legal history, which will surely be taught in legal universities, in Hungarian law history courses, if there is any further legal education in Hungary. We will remember this during the vote. The last attack is being launched against independent justice and the rule of law, and they do not even care that this is precisely the reason for the debate in the European Union, and that is why crisis management aid is not coming to Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the sins of Fidesz, there is hope. A year ago, October 13th showed that Democrats can defeat authoritarianism. In the year since then, small islands of freedom have evolved, where there is no need to be afraid, where local governments really work for the people who live there. [[13.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, There is hope, as I said, that we can make sure that it is not in the centre of Fidesz that we do not decide what is needed in Pécs, Tatabánya or even in Miskolc, that we can make sure that EU funds can be used directly by the municipalities for the benefit of the people in the settlements for whom opposition mayors and representatives are fighting. For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the local referendums announced by Gergely Christmas and the Association of Free Cities. Ladies and gentlemen, By working together, listening to each other and understanding each other, we can succeed. There is hope, let's make a change, let's start for our future together, for Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-14	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-10-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He's touched on a lot of topics, so I'm trying, if not in order, to answer. As far as the referendum initiatives are concerned, let a man be on his feet, who can follow how many referendum initiatives and signatures are initiated by left-wing parties, and in the summer there were more of them, we do not know what the result will be, so it also shows that they are actually in such a competition with each other. But as far as the concrete referendum initiative is concerned, if I understand this correctly, I would like to note one thing. I hear they call the cities where the left is leading the municipalities a free city. So, according to you, only the city where the left governs is free, there is only democracy where the left wins. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes.]] This, I think, honourable Member, is offensive, offensive to anyone who has not honored you with his trust, and, honourable Member, there are more of them. Look at the election results from last week. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] As far as the epidemiological measures are concerned, when you ignore them, when you say that nothing has happened when you criticize health decisions, you are not really attacking the government, although that may be your goal, but the health professionals, the specialists, the nurses you refer to all the time, and those who are fighting in the front line right now. And when you raise this case, please at least add that the government has decided on the largest medical wage increase program in the last decades on the basis of a proposal from the Medical Chamber. And when they say that nurses don't get anything, we'll say so many times, we'll say a hundred times that their wage increase program has already been decided, they'll get a 72-percent wage increase on the basis of previous decisions until 2022. As far as economic action is concerned, you know very well, because you are sitting here in Parliament, that the budget, next year's budget, has been changed by the government taking into account the fact that we want to protect every single job in order to protect human lives. Just to mention a few measures that you believe are nothing: wage subsidies for job creation and job protection, free training, investment grants, zero-percent loans, all decisions taken since the outbreak of the epidemic, temporary and permanent tax reductions, such as the reduction of employers' tax. Only the wage subsidies you ignore here have helped 280,000 people. This is also due to the fact that the level of employment has now reached the level in January, i.e. the level before the outbreak, and according to August data, the Hungarian unemployment rate is half the EU. And to mention new decisions: the moratorium, the extension of the credit moratorium will help more than a million people, the home creation programme will continue to expand, the VAT, the CSOK demanders, the new housing company will be able to reclaim even 5 percent, the state will pay for half the costs up to HUF 3 million if renovated. And today's announcement: In case of a CSOK grant, you don't have to pay a levy, which also means a significant reduction in expenditure for families. So, we can argue about the content of the measures, Your Honour, but when you say nothing happened, it's a political bluff, but it's more appropriate to say that it's a big lie. As far as public funds are concerned, if I still have a little time, the police did a few days ago in the building of the city council in Elizabeth, the reason is that someone stole the electricity. Do you understand? ! So he stole the power, and as things stand, it was a left-wing congressman. So if you want to protect the public funds, please don't start any power thieves. It's not too much to ask, please keep it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-16	György László Lukács, representative of Jobbik also applied for a speech before the agenda. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2020-10-19-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow us, once again, as has been so many times, to thank health, social or even law enforcement workers who have been standing up for the last time and fighting against the disease in the coronal virus epidemic itself. By the way, they do this in a way that we can say for sure that Viktor Orbán has basically released the virus, and that not being controlled means that the virus dictates the pace in Hungary. Sad facts have to be reported here. The data from the previous days on a coronal virus epidemic confirm that Viktor Orbán does not control the epidemic, our country does not essentially test enough. Let's see the numbers. What are the reasons for Viktor Orbán's release of the virus? In Hungary, this has already been said at more than 10 percent today in the tests carried out, so the positionality rate is worse than that in the Netherlands and the Czech Republic.In fact, in Viktor Orbán's adaptation point in Austria, this is around 5 percent; otherwise, this 5 percent is what the WHO, the World Health Organization, considers to be the guide for everyone, and which he says is that if a state achieves this, it is essentially controlled and the epidemic is under control. This did not happen in Hungary. But to give another international example, we have listened to him jealously in recent days, but in Slovakia they have decided that all citizens will be tested. Slovakia, with its former, previously rather bad eye, or, let's just say, the state that has been looked down from difficult circumstances has become a country, and Hungary is far ahead of it in its epidemiological defenses, which should be followed by the government. However, not only do the figures confirm that Viktor Orbán has released the virus in Hungary, but your experts also say that, so this is not a political issue, it is an expert question. The Russian Beatrix says that the country's current testing capacities have reached their upper limit, not because the epidemic is not progressing, but because we are not testing enough. But Viktor Orbán's favorite virologist, Ferenc Jakab, criticized the government's work in the spring season, said: "We do not see that the epidemic is peaking or plateau, the numbers are rising. He believes that if there are no restrictions, there will be more people in the hospital and on the ventilator, and there will be more deaths. Ladies and gentlemen, This scenario is currently in place, and we are living every day of it. But let's talk about what the government is trying to defend. And this is the salad law you are about to pass before Parliament. Instead of making the tests free and testing widely, Viktor Orbán seems to think that today the epidemic should work. In the submitted salad law, the focus is on fines, it seems that instead of tests, Hungarians will receive checks, or masks, from which the state bought tons, there will also be nothing but cheques and fines. In fact, the new salad law should include how health and social workers are protected, how they do free and extensive testing, or how they protect the residents of nursing homes who, according to the state of the past few weeks, need even greater protection. What is not yet included is, as I said, free and extensive testing. If there was something important, and for some reason it was justified that this law should be passed as soon as possible, this would have been it. To show your attitude towards fines, allow me to draw attention to the fact that this spring I asked the Ministry of the Interior for an account of how much money you collected from the fines imposed during the epidemic. 1 billion HUF 100 million, 1100 million HUF were collected from the Hungarian people for a fine. Ladies and gentlemen, what is it, perhaps the money is being cut short, is that why we need the opportunity to be fined again? That's basically where we are, and it's important to say that there's no infection in our country under control. Orbán will not only cause very serious restrictions to be imposed soon, but also restrictions and an increasing mortality in his viral treatment. During this one month, you have succeeded in making the country one of the most vulnerable countries to become one of the countries in greatest danger through the personal involvement of one of Europe's most unsuccessful prime ministers. If we allow the virus to dictate the pace, it can be enveloped that our country will suffer serious losses. [[14.00]] The Jobbik as a Right-wing People's Party [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] continues to require extensive and free testing, as it will protect the lives and health of as many people as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Even if you are so smiling today, you should impress your heart: do not allow the virus to dictate the pace, because it will not be able to cope with domestic health care. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not society! It is our shared responsibility to ensure the most important comprehensive and free testing for protection. We encourage Viktor Orbán to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-10-19-18	Dear House, Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, allow me to welcome with great respect the vice-president of the Bulgarian National Assembly, Mr Valery Simeonov, who visited Hungary on the occasion of the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship. Thanks to the presentation of Vice-President Simeonov, the Bulgarian National Assembly declared 19 October at the same time as the Hungarian Parliament in September 2016. For the fifth time this year, we are celebrating the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian, Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship, commemorating the patron saint of Bulgaria, the miraculous Saint János Rilai. Mr. Vice President, Please accept the respectful welcome of the Parliament. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-10-19-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As I understand it, you have said that there should be wider measures on the epidemic, but no one should be punished who violates the measures on the epidemic and, let us say, does not use a mask or does not comply with other rules, honourable Member. Summer was active for the government, and we tried to prepare as much as possible for the second wave. [[Intercoms and noise from Jobbik's benches.]] And while we were waiting for the first wave with 1.6 million masks, the second with 100 million; while at the beginning of the first wave we had 20 million pairs of rubber gloves, at the beginning of the second wave 95 million pairs; while at the beginning of the first wave there were 2,560 ventilators, now we did well over 11 thousand, and this was not an easy situation, since all other countries were bidding on these protective equipments. You have acted, honourable Member, as if the epidemic would not be spread in all the other countries of the world. If you're looking at France, we can talk about over 32,000 infected people a day, over 9,000 people in the hospital. In Paris, half of the ICU beds have a coronal virus infection. You said that there are problems with a positive test ratio of more than 5%. In Paris, this rate is 17 percent, 12 percent nationwide, but you say that in other countries they are more effective in defending than in Hungary, but you are disproved by the facts. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, In Italy, hospitals in the middle and south of the country are starting to fill up. The saturation of Naples and Milan's hospitals has reached critical levels. In one week, the number of new infected has doubled, and you say that Hungary is not defending itself with sufficient effectiveness. From the Roman Epidemic Hospital, patients who do not require ventilation are transferred to hotels. Fortunately, in Hungary, we can provide all patients with a hospital, and we do not need, like in Italy, to transfer patients to hotels. In Britain, the number of infected people increased from 224 thousand to 116 thousand in just a week, honourable Member, and in the meantime, new temporary epidemic hospitals had to be opened. In Germany, although you say that Hungary is defending poorly, [[Dr. László György Lukács: Orbán is unfortunately ill...]] , 30 regions have reached critical levels according to local authorities for new infections. In Belgium, which is a slightly larger country than Hungary, you said that Hungary is not handling the virus well, because it has reached the thousands of unfortunate deaths in Belgium, which is only a little bigger than Hungary, 1 million more than Hungary, 10 thousand deaths, and you say that Belgium is more defensive than Hungary, Congressman! [[Dr. László György Lukács constantly intervenes.]] How do you feel about your country? Belgian indicators doubled in one week. The number of people who died increased by 90 percent in one week and the number of people infected by 89 percent, honourable Member. In Slovakia, the percentage of positive tests has been above 10 percent for days, and you say that it could not be above 5 percent. In Romania, the State Secretary for Disaster Protection of the Ministry of the Interior said that Romanian health has lost the fight against the Crown Virus. There are hardly any beds available in the capital city of Bucharest; there are more than 10,000 people in the hospital, and there are more than 5800 dead. We know that Romania is not so much bigger than Hungary, and you say that Hungary is defending badly, honourable Member, while in Timisoara there have been cases of people dying from a ventilator; the number of infected people is 1.5 times higher than in the last two weeks, and even general doctors are involved in the defense of less serious cases. In Austria, which is much smaller than Hungary, the number of new cases is above 1500 per day. In Slovenia, which is much smaller than Hungary, one in five coronal virus tests are positive, so the rate of positive tests is around 20 percent, yet you criticize Hungary. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I criticize Viktor Orbán...]] There is the daily infection, the much smaller, 2.5 million in Slovenia: 898 new infected are being talked about, and therefore an exit ban has been imposed. I don't think we should talk about the situation in Ukraine, because, indeed, there are patients lying in the corridors. In Croatia, the number of active infected is 22 thousand, and the daily number in Croatia is much smaller between 200 and 500. In Poland, the number of new infections per day is over 8,000; in public transport, restaurants, restrictions have also been introduced everywhere. In the Czech Republic, too, 8,000 new cases have been registered daily, and therefore they have also switched to digital education in Prague. Honourable Congressman, If you looked around other countries, you wouldn't be talking nonsense. For you, a party political perspective makes your sense of reality fade. There are a lot of health workers, a lot of people working to protect Hungary more effectively. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches.]] If you look at the EU-27 average in proportion to the deceased, 350 is 117 in Hungary. And after that, you stand up here in Parliament, and... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] does not recognise those who work in defence and organise it, but is subject to unfair criticism. I think we can ask for this on behalf of all defense workers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party! Long live the party! You've never been so good...]]
u2020-10-19-20	It is now up to KDNP's group leader, Mr István Simicskó.
u2020-10-19-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have to tell you week after week about the epidemic. It is a fact that the first wave was successfully fought by the country, so that unfortunately you, honourable left, could not count on any matter. Right now, our country is struggling with the second wave of the viral crisis. It's a huge challenge for everyone, for all of us, for the whole world. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said here from the previous speakers. I would like to tell you and reassure you that the defence is going according to plan; Hungary is among the countries that are well-protected against the virus according to all indicators. The second wave is on the run in all the countries of Europe, we know that. In terms of the epidemic as a whole, only half of the EU average is still infected for 1 million people at home. In proportion to the population, this means that a third of Hungary's population will die as the EU average. Of course, all human life is important, but we still need to see that the world is plagued, and the Hungarian government, the Hungarian public authorities, is working at a strained pace to protect the lives of Hungarian people. That is what you will do in the coming period. However, it is very important that we remember that we must work together with citizens to do this work. We need all Hungarian citizens, because it is up to us, all of us, to keep our distance, to wear masks, and the rest, and the rest, we always tell and tell the operational tribe, thereby informing a wide range of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, no one knew that a global pandemic was sweeping through 2020, but Hungary's economic and financial reinforcement, which has been progressing step by step since 2010, was an incredibly good decision in many ways, not only from a financial and economic point of view, but also from a different point of view. While others in the current epidemic are in a state of bankruptcy economically, financially, Hungary is strong and will overcome the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction welcomes the government's establishment of the economic protection operational tribe, as the most important thing in preserving the health and life of Hungarian people is to restart the economy, to start increasing competitiveness, to develop support systems, to protect families and to protect jobs. In the framework of the economic protection action plan, the government has spent some HUF 6,000 billion to protect the economy and has already helped 280 thousand employees in terms of wage subsidies. [[14.10]] These are huge numbers. So, yes, it also shows that the government is doing its job for the benefit of Hungarian society. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP is particularly pleased that the support for home creation is constantly expanding, as it gives families the opportunity to maintain their standard of living, to grow, and obviously also to show a sense of respect and values. In next year's budget, we see that 81 billion HUF more is available to support families. It's very important. In fact, the most recent decisions that show that, from 1 January, the VAT on the sale of newly built homes will be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent by the government, and even 5 per cent by the government in the case of families with three children, are very important decisions in the family support system. This will also be supported by home renovation support, which will also start on 1 January. Here is 50% of the renovation costs, i.e. half of the government up to HUF 3 million. This is also very helpful for families. Energy, bathroom, kitchen, any other renovation can be done for the benefit of families. Ladies and gentlemen, We have already experienced left-wing crisis management, and we have seen how they react to crises. We saw that more than a thousand billion forints were taken from people, the 13th month pension was withdrawn, the public sector was ordered to freeze, the country was practically indebted, the housing subsidies were suspended. Conversely, the Fidesz-KDNP government's crisis management: protecting jobs, restarting the economy, supporting families. So the Hungarian people can count on the Fidesz-KDNP government, but you can't. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-22	Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor. [[There's no microphone sound.]] Mr. Róbert Zsigó, please turn on your computer. [[It's happening.]]
u2020-10-19-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, We all remember that, before 2010, Hungarian families could not count on left-wing governments not only in the crisis, but also in peacetime. At the time, they represented the interests of the multinationals, but they allowed Hungarian families to be put in a vulnerable position. They took away regular child protection support, as well as the family tax relief of parents with one and two children, and also shortened the time of the child, so that the families after that, it is no coincidence that they have withdrawn their trust from the left-wing parties at that time. In 2010, we decided to build a family-friendly country in partnership with the Hungarian families, which will help and support the removal of obstacles to family formation and childbearing, and in which young couples will have realistic opportunities to implement their childbearing plans. We believe that the birth of any desired child must be supported, and that the limitations and difficulties of having children must be broken down. Dear Parliament, In 2010, the civil government restored the third year of the child; we increased the maximum amount of the child, which has nearly doubled in ten years; we introduced a family-friendly tax system, with which over one million families lived in 2018, 95 percent of the underage children and with which we left nearly HUF 3000 billion in families; we launched a comprehensive nursery development programme, with the number of seats doubled between 2009 and 2020. In addition, in recent years, we have seized almost every means to support families' access to home. I will give you just a few examples: In 2015, we introduced the family home creation discount, commonly known as the CSOK. This represents support for the construction, purchase, purchase and expansion of new apartments for families with children, increasing by number of children, and childbearing for the future. This has been extended since 1 January 2016, but, for example, from 1 June 2019 we have introduced baby shower support, and the time frame available to me does not allow me to list each element of this programme. Dear Parliament, The government does not abandon the Hungarian families in an epidemic situation. We are implementing the largest home creation programme of all time, which increases the standard of living for families, boosts the economy and creates new jobs, so it is good for families, good for employers and good for workers. To this end, from 1 January next year we will introduce the 5% discount VAT rate for the purchase of new apartments, and even the 5% VAT amount will be refunded to families with children using CSOK. We also support the renovation of homes for families with children by refunding 50% of the costs, up to HUF 3 million. And today's announcement: the purchase of both new and used apartments will be free of charge for families with children who take the CSOK. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We work to ensure that every family with children or foster care has a secure roof over their head. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-24	The last among the comments before the agenda will be Mr János Halász, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is a second wave of coronal virus epidemic in every country in Europe. The epidemic will continue to rise in the coming months, so we are facing a difficult time, and our lives will continue to be determined by the control of the epidemic. There is an epidemiological alert in Hungary, which allows for the necessary measures to be taken even immediately. We won the fight against the first wave of the epidemic, and the government spent the whole summer preparing for the second wave: our supplies are uploaded, our health capacities are available, we have a plan for every scenario. This is why Hungarian health is still good for the mud in European comparison. We trust our experts, who will be under heavy strain for months, at least until there is a vaccine. That is why we decided to double the doctor's wages after the one-off HUF 500,000 summer allowance. We have already launched a 72 percent wage increase programme for health professionals, which is already covered by the 2019-20 budget, which was not voted for by the left. We can say that all Hungarians working in health care receive an unprecedented salary increase in this government cycle. Thank you for the sacrifice of health care workers, we are counting on them, and they can count on the government led by Fidesz-KDNP. Dear House, The defense is proceeding as planned. According to all indicators, Hungary is among the well-protected countries against the virus. In view of the epidemic as a whole, only half of the EU average is still infected per million people, and thirds die in Hungary as a proportion of the population as the EU average. However, this does not mean that we are not constantly monitoring good practices in European countries. We monitor the numbers and measures of the neighbouring countries, we work closely with the V4 countries. Of course, there is one area where things are very different than in Europe, this is party politics. Even in countries where political stalemate has been fought for many years, the parties joined forces during the outbreak. Due to political conflicts, a long-standing crisis management government in Belgium could be formed in March, the right-wing government also supported the crisis management measures of the left-wing government in Spain, and the opposition in Romania voted in favour of the new government in order to combat the epidemic. Compared to what we see at home, it's unprecedented and shameful. The left is not helping Hungary. In the spring, they did not support the extension of the emergency, they did not vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act, they used chamomuvides to bring down health care, and they slandered Hungary abroad, and they tried to silence people in the summer by trying to stop national consultation on protection. Now they pick up where they left off, getting something every day to attack the defense. They are critical of the elements of the action plan for the protection of jobs, while one of the government's most important objectives is to protect jobs and work at least as many as before the epidemic. They spread lies about the framework for unemployment grants. The reality is, on the other hand, that, as has been the case, the government will continue to fully provide the necessary resources for the payment of unemployment benefits. The left also attacks testing, while there was no financial limit to carrying out PCR tests for a single moment. [[14.20]] Everyone who needs to be tested in the laboratory will go through it free of charge. People are alarmed by the increase in repayments after the credit moratorium, whereas due to the payment moratorium, payments cannot increase. The measure, which the left has not voted for, will help 1.6 million people and more than 60 thousand businesses, and we will soon be discussing the extension here in this House. In addition, the House will discuss a further proposal on epidemiological control this week. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction provides the necessary parliamentary majority, and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction continues to fully support the government in its epidemiological defence. On the left, we ask that if they no longer want to help the defense, at least they do not prevent it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-26	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-10-19-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, today did not differ from those other parliamentary sittings, so today we have heard shocking things from the left of Parliament. On the one hand, they suggested that life should stop immediately in Hungary, which is an irresponsible step, because, in keeping with the increased protection measures in the epidemiological area, people said in the national consultation that, of course, they tried to prevent Hungary from operating, whereas Hungary's operation would have been stopped today by the opposition, several speakers on the left. But perhaps even more shocking was the comment that called into question the criminality of those who violated the epidemiological rules. I do not know exactly what you want with legislation that cannot be forced out, and we may not even be able to call it legislation. It is clear that the opposition is irresponsible, says everything and the opposite of all, the most hairy things come from the left about the country's shutdown or the enforcement of the rules. In addition, the opposition is spreading a lot of false news, and the Member has also said more, so let me bring up two. Regarding protective equipment, masks, the left had more direction of attack. First they said there were too few, then they said there were too many, and then they said they were too expensive. A few days ago, Eurostat published a European Union-wide summary of the cost of purchasing a hundred kilos of masks, and Hungary bought them for EUR 5300, which corresponds to the level of Germany. Since Germany is a country with much higher recording capacity, so they have much better positions in terms of volume, Hungary has been able to reach the purchase prices in Germany in the case of masks normally purchased from China, more than 90 percent. Hungary has managed to reach the price level of a much larger country than we do, so we could buy it at a much cheaper and better price than Spain, Portugal, Romania, France, Slovenia, Cyprus, Italy or Malta, and we could expand the line with other countries. The other typical false news, which has become the practice of left-wing media and left-wing politicians in recent weeks, is that hospitals that are not assigned to care for coronal viral patients are rumored to have filled the hospital with coronal viral patients, so they are not treating patients with coronal virus there, while the referral order is quite clear: it is another hospital that is assigned to receive patients with coronal virus. It is claimed to be a hospital on the left that is full, which is not assigned to receive patients with coronal viruses at this stage of the epidemic. So, in terms of both protective equipment and hospitals, there are more and more false news coming from week to week, destroying people's sense of security and confidence in disease management, which is very important, because we also launched the national consultation in order to have a joint decision on the second wave. These false rumors, these trust-breaking left-wing attempts, are trying to trigger precisely this trust, this common foundation, and are therefore very dangerous because they threaten the control of the epidemic. We are not in an ordinary political battle here in Parliament a year ago, but in the middle of an epidemic that shakes every country in the world. Therefore, it is not acceptable at all for a leftist, an opposition, not to try to become part of the defence, but to destroy it in all respects. Many words have also been said about testing, and left-wing politicians have tried to show a clear correlation between the number of tests and the proportion of deaths. Here, allow me to give you a number of disproved examples, which show that, above all, compliance with protection measures, distance control, hand disinfection, mask use and compliance with other measures is what can help. Germany and Italy are about the same in proportion to the tests within the Union in 12, 13 places, yet, if you look at the death line, one is in 16th and the other is in 25th place, although the testing is almost exactly the same. France is 14th, Latvia is 15th, so they are also very close again, but one of them is in 2nd place and the other is in 23rd place. So it cannot be said at all that there is a clear correlation here, but Austria and Sweden are also one behind another, in 17th, 18th place, in proportion to the tests, yet their mortality rates are 12th and 24th, so there is a completely different mortality rate, however similar the test rates are. It is therefore important to comply with the other measures. For example, the protection measures introduced in schools, which try to protect both parents' workplaces and children's health, can be said to be 1.35 percent of kindergartens in kindergartens. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] only 0.42 percent of schools are affected, we can say that protection measures are effective for children and schoolchildren. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-28	Dear Parliament, Now, after the speeches before the agenda by the representatives of the political groups, Varga Simeon's speech before the minority spokesperson will take place, in a five-minute period:, October 19th, the Day of Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship has no future without the past. I give the floor to the Bulgarian speaker Varga Simeon, who describes the first sentences in his native language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Специално предното събрание в България, който е гост на празненства в Унгария в чест на 19. октомви, деня на българо-унгарското приятелство. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself. With special attention, I welcome Mr Valery Simeonov, vice-president of the Bulgarian National Assembly, who arrived to Hungary for the events of the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day on 19 October this year. [[Valery Simeonov stands up in the box. Applause.]] The title of my speech before the agenda is: the future is difficult to build without knowledge of our past. For the fifth year now, we have celebrated the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Unfortunately, this year's difficulties are testing our community, just like everyone else in the world. We could see less of our loved ones and friends, and we also had to postpone the traditional Bulgarian holidays. There was nothing left to keep the strength of our faith, just as our ancestors did in 1916 when the Bulgarian Orthodox Church was founded in Hungary, with the help of Archbishop Boris sent here from Bulgaria, the mother country, and with the help of a metropolitan. The event of the 19th October celebration is the inauguration of the Bulgarian Orthodox church and church garden of St Cyril and St Methodius in Hungary, as well as the presentation of the bust of Archbishop Boris Nevrokop. Archbishop Boris was one of the founders of the Bulgarian parish in Budapest and the Bulgarian school in 1917. His way of life is wonderfully linked with the martyr of God's favor, the Holy Demeter of Saloniki. Exactly 60 years after his birth, the Metropolitan also returned to his Creator on the day of Saint Demeter in the blood - stained robe of martyrs. As God's servant in Bulgaria, the period from 9 September 1944 to his death was one of the most difficult periods in life when it had to withstand the devastating plagues of Communist power. When the reckoning with the clergy begins, the metropolitan Boris shares the fate of his fellow priests. In his letter of protest dated 29 September 1948, he criticized the Minister of the Religious Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria for the slanders with which the members of the Communist Party gave the Diocese of Nevrokop. Because of this position, he was subjected to constant psychological terror and physical repression. He was branded for honoring the church and its country. Boris's metropolitan life on earth was crowned by martyrdom, murdered in front of the temple on November 8, 1948, on his 60th birthday. Boris metropolitan was placed at the headquarters of the diocese of Blagoevgrad, the church of the Holy Virgin, where the funeral mass was held. [[14.30]] In his inscription, the slogan, which he chose for himself to be a bishop in his consecration, shall he make clear, O Lord, my soul, that it may be worthy of crucifixion upon thy cross. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. By claiming the statue of Boris Metropolitan, we honor Hungary's ecclesiastical and human greatness, and at the same time remember the past, which is the basis of faith in the future. Because without faith, our Bulgarian gardeners' ancestors who arrived in Hungary might not have been able to maintain their national identity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary, the Parliament and the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office for the Church and Nationality, and Mr Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, for supporting the development and preservation of the traditional aspirations of the Bulgarian community in Hungary through the provision of ethnic resources and individual grants. Thank you for the fifth year we have been celebrating friendship between the two countries, which, in recent times, is even more needed in Europe. And remember, it is always our duty to remember our common history, because without faith from the past, our future would be aimless. And allow me to conclude with a quote from Mihály Babits: "There is no future without the past, and the richer your past is, the more threads you can cling to the future. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[A big round of applause.]]
u2020-10-19-30	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, I also welcome Vice-President Valery Simeonov, who has done a lot not only for today's memorial day, but also for the protection in which Bulgarians, Hungarians, the peoples of the Balkans and Central Europeans in general, are now one to stop the migration that has so far invaded our countries for many centuries. Dear Parliament, Although one of Hungary's smallest nationalities in terms of the number of Bulgarian nationalities, they actively and unitedly do their work, they guard their community and have passed on their diligence over the past centuries, they have gained the respect and friendship of Hungarians with their activities and diligence. Thank you for all this. And it was also important, Honourable Parliament, that, in addition to preserving identity, we found a holiday such as this today, St. John Rila's or St. Ivan's Day, which is the day of Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship. It was interesting to hear Vice-President Simeonov today, when he said that this is the only day of friendship with Bulgaria, no more such for the Bulgarian nation. We have that with the Poles. This shows that it was a good decision five years ago that we accepted the request of the Bulgarian community that the government and the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon submitted this request to Parliament, and we supported it. The history of Bulgaria in Hungary and vice versa contribute to all of this: the same and the same suffering, the many and many struggles. He who knows Bulgarian history knows that he has been under Turkish-Muslim occupation for nearly 500 years, the language, the nation, was saved, inherited and passed by Orthodox Christianity, without them Bulgaria would not have survived, as he did in the preservation of the heritage during communism. They defended Europe then, and thank the Deputy Prime Minister once again for doing all of this, because he was the one who personally urged the construction of the fence in Bulgaria, he had it carried out, the government supported it there, and they defended the whole of Europe through the Balkan route. Thank you to the Bulgarian Government for all this. In addition to the very important, symbolic cooperation, we need at least as much the much material and material assistance that the Bulgarian community in Hungary will receive. Together with the Bulgarian state, the government, we renewed the nearly 100-year-old church of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. Thank you, God bless the Orthodox Church leaders. Together, we renewed the cultural center, which the ancestors built in the most difficult period, and now, after decades, it was able to be beautiful with a fantastic architectural and construction feat. And together we will create a centre in this region, in Ferencváros, which the Hungarian government supports with HUF 2.6 billion to bring the local government, the educational centre, the church and the cultural area together. Dear Parliament, The Bulgarian community in Hungary preserves and passes on the tradition. It builds the country and builds the relationship between the two countries. With its diligence, for example, in gardening, it proves the conservation power of the community. And if I ask you Bulgarians, despite the fact that there are members with Bulgarian names, but who do not belong to the two communities, who are destroying, but do not serve, their diligence will only extend to indictment, do not bother them at all, and today, on this holiday, we do not care about them. God bless the Bulgarian community. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-10-19-33	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Z. Dániel Karpát, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Csaba Gyure, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Varju, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik.
u2020-10-19-34	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Presented on the scoreboard: 182; away: 16. For signal:]] Congressman Csaba Dömötör, Congressman Miklós Soltész and Congressman Tállai's machines are not working. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to derogate from house rules. The House Committee initiated the Parliament's decision on transitional measures to stabilise the situation of certain priority social groups and businesses in financial difficulties T/13295. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. T/13295/3 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 185 votes in favour, the House unanimously agreed to a derogation from the house rules. [[14.40]] In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 16 hours and 40 minutes. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on the second-to-last item of the agenda of today, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. The Government has initiated the T/13308 laying down certain rules on epidemiological measures and amending certain laws relating to epidemiological measures. The Parliament shall also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. The emergency proposal is T/13308/1. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the emergency proposal.
u2020-10-19-35	Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as "HSZ 60." On behalf of the Government, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section T/13308, on the establishment of certain rules relating to epidemiological measures and on the amendment of certain laws relating to epidemiological measures, I propose on behalf of the Government. Urgent trial of bill No 1. It is necessary to order an urgent hearing in order to bring the legislative provisions into force at the scheduled time. I propose that the general debate of the bill be held on Monday, October 19, 2020 as the last item on the agenda until its closure. An amending proposal should be possible on Monday 19 October 2020 until the general debate is closed. The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill. The Legislative Committee is the HSZ 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. In view of the above, Article 15 TEU provides: On the basis of paragraphs (4) of Section 4 of the Parliament's meeting on 19-20-21 October and 26 October 2020, I shall initiate an amendment to the agenda of the Parliament's meeting, according to which the meeting shall take place only on 19-20-21 October, and the Parliament shall hold the general debate on the proposed bill. The amendment to the agenda is justified by the social interest in the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. The initiative to conduct an urgent hearing and to amend the item on the agenda is in the event that Parliament does not accept the proposal to negotiate the motion referred to by way of derogation from the provisions of the HSO.
u2020-10-19-36	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I ask this House to contribute to the T/13308. The urgent hearing of this proposal was tabled in accordance with the previous motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has agreed to an urgent hearing by 133 votes to 50, with two abstentions. We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The MSZP Group has proposed that on Monday 19 October, the item 5 "Personal proposals S/13175. Election of the President of the Curia No secret vote shall take place; on the election of the President of the Curia, the Parliament shall not decide whether it should be removed from the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House does not support this proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I'm asking you... [[On Dr. Bertalan Tóth's signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-10-19-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With the possibility of house rules, please repeat the vote by voting machine in the House. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Buy glasses! Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-10-19-38	Good. So, listen up. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposed amendment to the agenda of the MSZP just described. Please vote. [[Vote.]] 54 yes, 131 sexes and 1 abstention, the proposal to amend the agenda has not been adopted. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation and a question, these items will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work with a debate on Commission reports and the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as possible, only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers should be present in the Chamber. The debate can be followed by the internal television broadcasting system for everyone. At the end of each speech, the chairman will present the names of the following three Members. [[It's a short break.]] [[14.50]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-10-19-39	Dear Parliament, We'll continue our work. Welcome, fellow Members. With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats. Dear Parliament, Once they have taken their place, I declare that there will be a debate on the Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal for the submission of individual trust funds and asset allocation to them. The government referral T/12884. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Continued noise, move.]] Before I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, I would once again like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can start our work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-19-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 15 October 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/12884. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to strengthen civil society organisations that are independent of the government and the state, and to strengthen organisations that do their job for a public purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill consists of several parts. One is the establishment of the Millenáris Scientific Cultural Foundation, the second is the transformation of the Batthyány Lajos Foundation and the accession of the state to the Foundation, the third is the grant of wealth to the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation, and the fourth is the establishment of the Foundation for Education, Culture and Science for Civil Culture. I would like to start with the establishment of the Millenary Science Cultural Foundation. Millenáris Nonprofit Kft. As a public company, it is not an efficient cultural service provider. As a public company, Millenáris can react lightly and slowly to the needs of a rapidly changing market. The foundational operation proposed in the draft law would not only change this, but also involve an operational concept that can become self-sustaining in the medium term and profitable in the long term. The Batthyány Lajos Foundation has been performing for almost thirty years the public interest activity that Prime Minister József Antall has appointed for him. In order to enable the Foundation to achieve a significant expansion in recent years and intensively developing public interest activities and, by doing so, its public service mission with sufficient effectiveness, it is necessary that the resources to ensure this be made available on a continuous basis. It should be noted that the Batthyány Lajos Foundation can carry out this activity independently and essentially on its own basis. The most appropriate instrument to ensure these objectives is the use of the trust form as a legal institution. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, the proposal provides for the grant of assets to the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation. The purpose of the asset allocation is to develop the institution's infrastructure outside Budapest. Finally, the proposal includes the establishment of the Foundation for Civil Culture in the form of a Trust Fund for Education, Culture and Science in the public interest. The Foundation for Civil Culture is responsible for preserving cultural values, contributing to the organisation of cultural events, continuing and promoting educational activities, contributing to the protection of built heritage, in particular the heritage of monuments, and supporting organisations, institutions and persons engaged in such activities. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on what has been said, it can be stated that the provisions of the bill greatly increase the success of the foundations, thereby promoting the promotion of Hungarian national cultural values and the issue of talent management in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, On these very grounds, the Legislative Committee proposes and supports the proposed bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-19-41	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Deputy Minister that there is a 15-minute time-frame for discussion and possible closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have speeches from Members. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-42	Thank you very much. Dear House, Madam Member has also involved a number of elements related to the general debate, which I am increasingly obliged to discuss when she says that the aim is to strengthen independent civil society organisations. [[Mónika Dunai intervenes.]] independent of government, so he said literally. That's a really good government-free civil society organization where the chairman of the board is the government's top secretary of state sitting across from us. You have a very strange idea of independence, that's what I can tell you. It seems to me that this is one of those real nouns from Orwell, where the independent who depends on the government. In any case, this is not in itself a question of this debate, and we have discussed it then, and we understand clearly that you, with these measures, are how should I put it? I would like to create a self-conceived or inadequately strong, sometimes spectacularly indisposed, spiritual hinterland with government money. It seems that those oligarchs who are abundantly involved in the benefits of your government are reluctant to do so, perhaps they do not understand what it is, so they think that the taping of public funds is a more effective genre in organizational building. [[15.00]] However, there is a sideline to this debate, but this includes: Dear Secretary of State Balázs Orbán, didn't Balázs Orbán, the chairman of the board of trustees, tell you three weeks ago that we would need a few more real estates, that we wouldn't have enough of the one with which the bill was put forward? As a novelty to the government, do you have any other dreams, that one more property in Szekszárd, one more in Szombathely, one more camp or marina, or what the hell is going on in Révfülöpülöp, would you like to give something else to the foundation? Once again, I am not arguing on my own, although I am also arguing that, by the way, these are certainly their place at this foundation, and that this foundation would certainly get these real estates, if it weren't for one of those very bosom organizations with the government, but I simply wanted to ask you that it was so new that you needed more real estate. Could it not be written in the bill when it was submitted perhaps three or four weeks ago, but now it is being tabled as an amendment in the Legislative Committee? I add, but we are used to this, against house rules, because the procedure of the Legislative Committee is not intended to incorporate new demands and new ideas into the law, but to ensure that the issues raised in the debate can otherwise be clarified in a reassuring manner. So, I have to say that there's a classic joke about what I'm not going to tell you about the insolence, but let's just say that this is a very serious case of insolence, when the list of properties you've acquired for yourself can only be brought in in in a way that seriously insults the House's etiquette. I think this whole thing is really embarrassing. We had this debate with the Secretary of State the other day, and I am telling you that the children who are involved in the talent management of the Foundation's institutions are not, therefore, faulty or college students, nor the teachers who work and teach there, and are often excellent and high-quality teachers, but you, the leadership of this foundation, which uses its political connections to collect everything nicely. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-19-43	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-44	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is a far more harsh bill before us, even from the usual one, because it is clear that there was a public outsourcing before the elections. I can really say this after I tried to ask myself a few questions at the Legislative Committee on this subject, and unfortunately I did not get any substantive answers. However, I will try him here at the meeting, but it is clear that they are essentially giving these private foundations public wealth, so that it will be completely uncontrollable how they use public money; so we are talking about Hungarian taxpayers' money. I would like to ask why not the national capitalists, who are otherwise supported by the government, are winning a great deal of public procurement by these people, companies, and receive amazing state contracts worth hundreds of billions, and some of them, such as Lőrinc Mészáros, who only took out 16 billion forints of dividends in the last year, are not supported by these national capitalists, such as András Tombor and his foundation. So tell us why the Hungarian taxpayers are giving money to these foundations, why they do not expect their contributions from these national capital banks. I asked at the committee's meeting whether the Hungarian State was working so badly to organise certain tasks to be carried out by such private foundations, or it is simply what I have mentioned that they are essentially trying to remove public money from the eyes and make it uncontrollable to be used. Mr Secretary of State has been involved in the explanation that, yes, the state is not working well in certain segments, and these foundations will do much better. If we accept this argument, I would say that both cases are probably at the same time, if we accept this, then I would like to ask you, for example, in the case of public companies or any other institution that you say you are not doing well, yet what Kehi report or what SAO report supports this. If they didn't do the job well, did they launch an internal investigation? Have you done any reorganizations? Did you take responsibility for the people who work in that particular organisation of the state as senior officials and therefore did not properly carry out their work? So if you maintain that it is better to outsource certain tasks to private foundations which, I would like to note here, have been chosen in a completely opaque way, because to date you have not been able to say why these foundations were chosen and why these foundations have been chosen now; I am responding to the latter: obviously because the 2022 elections are approaching, if they are better suited to the task, then really, in the state section, shouldn't there be order? Then we really expect to be held accountable for those who did not carry out their duties. I would like to continue to know that the delegation of the Hungarian state to these curators, who will also check that the money is being used for the purpose, what the decision-making processes look like at all, because otherwise the courts are not responsible and will not be able to control the use of this money. So how is this going to happen? We are still waiting for an answer. And by the way, will anyone be there to veto the process if they want to use these funds for some other purpose? So it's perfectly clear that we're talking about an amazing reorganization of money, we're talking about assets that are being taken from universities, they're taking very valuable properties, they're giving private foundations, amazing money, ports, and we could tell you how much stuff. Obviously, it will be much harder to control this money and this wealth, and it is obvious that this is how they want to hide it from people's eyes. The LMP has tabled an amendment, which is a proposal for a specific amendment to Pécs. To do this, I would like to ask for your support, but I do not think that we have any illusions that will support this. We would like to express an intention, just as our bill is clearly in front of the House, which would otherwise not allow the state's wealth to be so outsourced, alienated and actually given to private circles. Otherwise, it's completely uncontrollable from here on out what's going on. So I would like to continue to have an answer, and the Hungarian people rightly expect an answer because, by the way, we are talking about hundreds of billions of them in total, what they are giving to these foundations, how exactly they have chosen these foundations, how they will be able to control the use of these funds, and yet how they will be able to hold those actors who, in this state-owned organisation, have failed to carry out their task of reviewing those companies, where is the Kehi report, the SAO report, which supports, for example, what Mrs Dunai said that the state-owned company then referred to it, did not properly perform its task. Then we look forward to the answers to these questions, and the most important ones are the Hungarian people. Thank you.
u2020-10-19-45	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-46	Mr President, Dear House, I was beginning to hope... During a late-night discussion session, we managed to talk about these issues with a little less, a little more braked foaming, and now we have heard a net party state production report, an introduction to how bad state property is, and how well the outsourced state assets are in the foundations you oversee, how effective they are. The fact is that they should speak honestly, and they do not, because, on the one hand, they have sabotaged the establishment of the national wealth inventory, the national inventory; we have already talked about this with my fellow Member Nacsa, who is now really shaking his head. We are used to this from certain prominent KDNPs having selective memory, forgetting certain conversations or details of conversation. But I also said at the time that Mr Orbán has not responded to me since then, even though I was benevolent with him, because I mentioned that I do not necessarily consider this institution to be a Janicsar, and I maintain that certain sections of the Act on National Property do not apply to the outsourced state assets, so that you will hide with your own team the national assets that have been more easily supervised so far without certain conditions being controlled. [[15.10]] It does not apply to the passage of the national property law that they have an annual reporting obligation to the body transferring the property. But even more serious, it does not apply to the outsourced property that, in the event of an infringement, the infringement status should be terminated; in Hungarian, the transferred property should be returned to Hungary or to the Hungarian State. You are violating these passages of the National Property Act. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: No, that's not true!]] You can swing your head, but you have to codify it properly. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: But this is different! It's a different rule.]] Put a piece of legislation on the table that corresponds to normal, XXI. Company requirements! [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: The other law!]] I understand you're trying to outsource assets with huge breasts, huge confidence. That it is now part of products on conveyor belts from Pécs or another institution, but that does not allow them to provide the guarantees that they had before. And, again, the entry phase into the debate would be a national asset inventory. Until this is done, it is at least irresponsible to argue about how to deal with national and state assets, since you do not know how much of Hungary's particular family silver is. That's what we'd like to hear. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-19-47	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, took account of the net political propaganda that Gergely Arató and Márta Demeter have been raving here for the last few minutes, and do not ask us to do so. I understand that it is not important for you to care for talent, it is not important for you to save József Antall's spiritual heritage, and I also understand that it is not important for you to save Millenaris, which has been crushed and scattered by the socialists. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] I can accept these, because these are what this bill is about: providing talent, saving and transforming Millenary, and saving Joseph Antall's spiritual heritage. I understand that these are not important to you, but I am asking you not to spread at least the same untruths that we have heard in this speech. Nor is it true that the court does not see these data, since every year the foundation has to submit a report to the court, which is completely public, can be found on the court's website; as every civil society organisation must do. It's not true that this bill would take anything from universities. It's a bloody lie. It doesn't take anything from any university. It's a bill. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpát, is mixing the season with the man, because what he was talking about is a completely different legal arrangement, not what this bill is about. It is not true at all that you said, whether you were Secretary of State or fellow Member, that the state is a bad farmer. This is only demonstrated by the fact that in the past ten years the state's wealth has increased by more than one and a half times in the past ten years, which my colleague Z. Karpát can find exactly on the National Asset Management website, in the inventory or in the annex to the bill; that after the robbery privatization, which was between 2002 and 2010, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his friends distributed the state's wealth and became private property, the state's wealth has increased by one and a half times over the past ten years. Congressman Harvest said that public money was being abused. The abuse of public money is stealing electricity from a local government building for bitcoin mining, which you do. This is public money abuse. So I think you should start sweeping around your own house and see what happens before you accuse us of anything. I would like to point out that the matter of talent management has always been important to us. Obviously, it also pains Mr Arató that this is a talent-care programme in the Carpathian Basin and that there will be talent-care centres across the border. I also understand that, knowing the history of DK and the relevant principles of Ferenc Gyurcsány, but we think that there is a place for such a talent center beyond the border. Therefore, as we have made clear in the general debate, we will also support the bill in the vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2020-10-19-50	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would just like to respond and ask for clarification in relation to what has been said in the debate. Firstly, I would like to confirm what Congressman Nacsa has said, so here I think it is more important and more important for nation-building than it has been heard in opposition speeches, the issue of talent in the Carpathian Basin. It started to deteriorate during a period of basically socialist government, and it is actually a separate part of the city that we have renovated to strengthen Hungarian industrial performance and Hungarian identity; it really is the spiritual legacy of József Antall, who came home in 1991 in Paris as a result of a dinner with high-level decision-makers and established the Batthyány Lajos Foundation, which has been in operation for almost 30 years and has been doing the nation-building activity that we could get used to. Here, I think we should state that, if there is a point where we agreed with Mr Arató, it is worth pointing out once again: these projects, the civil organizations involved in these projects, the talented children involved in these projects, and the scientific teachers and researchers involved in these projects, have not been the subject of any professional, quality or other problems in the course of the debate, and even more from the opposition side, have confirmed in several ways that these are suitable workshops, by the way, they are serious people, and they are serious talent, and they are teachers and researchers engaged in serious talenting activities. So this can be a starting point that I think is worth fixing beyond everyday political battles, and it in itself makes the bill fit for support beyond party policy logic. I would like to do one more thing that Congressman Arató has said, to respond to: independence. So, in our view, the independence of a civil society organisation must be on the one hand from the organizational side, on the other hand from an economic, financial and financing perspective. For example, our problem with George Soros's activities is that he controls civil society organisations that were originally not created for this purpose, through the funding leash, from an ideological point of view. Congresswoman Demeter, I suggest that you sit down with your party's former president, András Schiffer, and discuss why the Company, by the way, has been a member of the Freedom Rights Organization, a former member of which and one of its leading prominent personalities, has not supported it in recent years. That is precisely why, because these organisations did not have their organisational, infrastructure and financing, economic independence, and they were therefore under political influence. [[Gergely Arató: Or András Schiffer is under political influence!]] We are not thinking about such a civil society organisation, but we are thinking about these projects, which are of particular importance in terms of national strategy, not in terms of infrastructure, but intellectually speaking, we really want to put them in such a legal and economic situation that they are not dependent on the current government or any of the next governments. What Mr Arató said about talented children and excellent educators: this construction allows these talented children and excellent educators to be financed for their advancement. I believe that this is a completely different approach compared to what previous socialist governments have taken on. [[Gergely Arató: a program of national talent! Look at what it is. The president's ringing the bell.]] Or carried as a policy. For example, if you mention the property element related to one of the organizations here, such as MOL shares, in this context you have played it into foreign ownership, and after that you could hardly save the property element from the Russian influence that the Hungarian government regained after 2010, and from now on the performance of the Hungarian oil industry will serve both the talented economist students and the otherwise talented students who are not in economics, but also from other trainings, to obtain scholarship and advance. It is much better, Mr Congressman, than it is in the interests of, say, Russia, and I believe that the comfort of the Hungarian people is that we, not you, are in the government. With regard to the procedure of the Legislative Committee, although it is not my place to talk about it, let me have one sentence: I am aware that the Legislative Committee has the right to submit an amendment, this was clearly done by house rules. [[15.20]] I was there at the committee meeting, there was no criticism in the context of the procedure, and the committee assessed the intentions for amendments. Congresswoman Demeter, I would just like to ask you to catch up a little bit on the facts of this House. Because the proposal you were talking about has already been made by the House, it was a mistake in your allegations. The other: you named your founder in connection with one of the foundations; factually, what you said is not true, not the one who exercises the founder's rights at the moment. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] And you were factually not telling the truth about what was said in the committee in connection with the management of the state-versus-private players' assets. I would just like to ask you one question on the basis of your speech: do you really want and, as elected Member of Parliament, do you propose that only the state act on the issue of culture, education and talent? Is that really what you want? Do you really want this public service to be performed only by the state in Hungary? Then I would like to ask you, Congresswoman, to contact all educational, cultural and talent institutions with foundational reservations, to contact all ecclesiastical educational, cultural and talent institutions, and to tell you that the proposal of the LMP is for the state to take the wealth away from these institutions, to take away the task, because you believe that these activities should be nationalised. No kidding, Congresswoman, I understand that in daily political struggles there are certain things to say that sound good, but there are areas of activity, economic activity, there is a sector in which state property alone weighs, where public property has a decisive weight, and where public property can also appear, but private property can also have a role, and even a market economy sector where there is no need for state property. This is what this system looks like, and if you want to deal with education, culture and talent management exclusively with state-owned organisations, then this is an educational and cultural programme that I think 99.9 percent of Hungarians would not support the sound majority. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Moreover, Mr Z. Kárpat and Mrs Demeter referred to this. The thing is, it doesn't seem to be clear. This means that there is a separate mass of assets, and this separate mass of assets carries out public tasks as defined by the Parliament. These separate wealth masses, as they are a trust in the public interest, are subject to greater rules on publicity, transparency and reporting. Not because we have created them now, these rules have existed before, but there are greater requirements for such rules than otherwise. So if, for you, these aspects are important for publicity, transparency, reporting obligations, then the fact is that you should support this bill. I would like to thank you for the support and constructive but critical contributions made in the debate. I think that these are matters of national strategy to support culture, education and science, in which, of course, they can be found, because there is parliamentary freedom of speech here, but I think that sometimes the daily political battle that has taken place to the dignity of this House may be unworthy of the dignity of this House. I would like to ask all Members and gentlemen to support this bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Márta Demeter interrupts.]]
u2020-10-19-51	Dear Parliament, I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that decisions will take place on this day. Dear Parliament, Now I'm ordering a break for 15 hours and 30 minutes, and we'll continue our work with decisions from 15 hours and 30 minutes. (Recess: 15.24-15.40) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2020-10-19-52	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work with decisions. My fellow Members, please take your seats. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decision, we decide to adopt a bill requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rules 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] Thank you. [[Present: 186, away: 12.]] Dear Parliament, The T/12884 on each trust fund and its asset allocation follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12884/7. T/12884/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. In Amendment 2, Mr Lóránt Keresztes tabled a motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 129 against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that points 3 and 6 of point 8 of this Article are replaced by the following: Paragraph 1 and 2 of Section 9 of Section 13 of Section 6 of the Act establishing paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply. § (1) and (2) and Article 7. A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of the provision laying down paragraph 1 and paragraph 16 of paragraph 1, and the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/12884/7. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 36 against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/12884/7. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which required a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 36 against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/12884/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 36 against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/12884/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 37 against and 18 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of the President of the Curia by secret ballot follows. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] Please allow me to pay tribute to the candidate of the President of the Republic, Mr András Varga and his family members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] All the permanent guests of the Parliament, our guests, who are attending our meeting. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the mandate of Dr. Péter Darák, President of the Curia, expires on 1 January 2021. On 5 October 2020, President János Áder proposed the identity of the new President of the Curia. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Mr. Messenger!
u2020-10-19-53	For Mr. László Kövér, Parliament. Mr President, I inform you that the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts pursuant to Article 9 (3) (j) of the Fundamental Law and Article 26 (3). In the light of the provisions of the Law, I propose to the President of the Curia the following. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts pursuant to Article 9 (3) (j) of the Fundamental Law and Article 26 (3). Law 67. § (1) and Article 114 In the light of the paragraphs ( 1) to (2) of the President of the Curia, Dr. Zsolt András Varga appointed for an indefinite period of time a judge with a judicial service right which is suspended at the time of nomination. [[15.50]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Dr. Zsolt András Varga has accepted his nomination as President of the Curia. Dr. Zsolt András Varga commented that the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts concerning his person. Act 114. Paragraph 2 (2) (a), (b) and (c) there are none of the grounds for refusal, the grounds for refusal set out in point (d) and the termination of the judicial service prior to the election of the President of the Curia. Budapest, 5 October 2020 Yours sincerely, János Áder. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] None of the grounds for refusal set out in points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 1 of this Article shall exist, the grounds for refusal set out in point (d) shall cease to exist and the suspension of the judicial service shall be terminated prior to the election of the President of the Curia. Budapest, 5 October 2020 Yours sincerely, János Áder. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-10-19-54	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Judicial Council has not supported the election of the candidate, and that the Justice Committee has supported his election. The position of the Judicial Committee, the opinion of the National Judicial Council and the biography of the candidate S/13175. You can find it on the website. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that Mr András Varga resigned on 16 October 2020 and that all the legal conditions for his election have been fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Assembly elects the President of the Curia with two-thirds of the votes of the Members for nine years on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Speaker of Parliament, with effect from 2 January 2021. Under the provisions of the Act on Parliament, the candidate shall be elected by secret ballot. Dear Parliament, The secret ballot process is as follows. Members may take the ballots from the group corresponding to the initials of their names in alphabetical order, in groups A-F, G-K, L-S, S-Zs, in the corridor of the House's Lower House meeting room on the Danube Bank, in accordance with previous practice. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members in the letters group A-F and G-K to the fact that, unlike usual, they are able to approach their letter sectors from the corridor of the House of Commons in Kossuth Square. I would like to inform you that in the lettering sector, you can receive a ballot and an envelope. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to always ensure adequate distance in the corridor appointed for this during the vote. I would ask all Members to wait in the corridor before the dividing cordon set up in front of the alphabetical tables, keeping a sufficient distance between them. I also ask that only one person, apart from the notary of the Parliament and the official staff, be present directly at the tables during the recording of the ballot paper and the signing of the register. In the alphabetical sectors of the list, hand sanitizer and disposable pens will be available to everyone. We ask you to take this with you and use it to fill out the ballot paper and then toss it in the trash bin next to the polling booth for this purpose. Of course, anyone can use their own pen, so please take this with you. Please confirm the fact that the ballot paper is received on the sheets placed at the notary. I would like to inform you that the polling booth will also be used in the vote. I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to briefly explain the rules of the vote, and my fellow Members, with respect, to listen to it in their place. Mr. Messenger!
u2020-10-19-55	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed only to be the one placed on the candidate on the ballot-paper with two intersecting lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the vote sheet is taken by the Member but not thrown into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will include it and replace it with a new card.
u2020-10-19-56	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting time, only members of the working group involved in voting shall be allowed to remain in the corridor of the Chamber. I respectfully ask all my fellow Members to pay particular attention to compliance with the rules presented. I also ask that we pay attention to keeping the right distance between us. I announce that 40 minutes are available for the cast of votes, so it is possible to do so for 16 hours 36 minutes. The results of the vote are expected to be presented at 16:56 p.m. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering the secret vote. (Sunning: 15.56 - 17.01.) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2020-10-19-57	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Please stand and welcome President János Áder. [[The people in this room stand up, Claps. Dr. János Áder stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work, concluded that 171 Members took part in the secret vote, and the notaries found that the voting procedure was valid and effective. On the person of Dr. Zsolt András Varga, 161 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn, the distribution of which is as follows: the number of invalid votes is zero, the number of valid votes is 161, the number of votes yes 135 The number of non-votes is 26 and the number of votes remaining is zero. On this basis, the National Assembly elected Dr. Zsolt Andras Varga as President of the Curia. Dear Parliament, Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I ask Mr Zsolt András Varga to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the oath text, and I would ask the Members of Parliament to hear it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Zsolt András Varga steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2020-10-19-58	I, Dr. Zsolt András Varga, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others, to exercise my office as President of the Curia for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[It's a long applause.]]
u2020-10-19-59	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the President-elect of the Curia to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Zsolt András Varga and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. Zsolt András Varga first Viktor Orbán, then László Kövér, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Dr. Judit Varga, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Imre Ritter, Dr. Tibor Benkő, György Balla and Zsolt Németh congratulated him.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. Zsolt András Varga on his election. I wish you good work and good luck. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions. [[The opposition representatives are constantly arriving in the room. Intercoms from the ruling parties: Whoops! It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I remind you that the accepted H/12958. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall not be obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. Dear Parliament, Peter James and György Szilágyi [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Starfall!]] Representatives of Jobbik [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Are you resigning?]] "They want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr. Peter James, the leader of the group, is the subject.
u2020-10-19-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Basically, I have one question. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: When will the star fall?]] What is the taste of victory in fear and poverty? [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including, "Woe! Defiance in the same place.]] What's it like? ! At the Borsod interim, where I didn't meet you, obviously, he was in business somewhere. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] But I've been through the villages of the constituency, you know what people have told me, why do they vote for you? Not because it's gonna make their lives better, but because their only source of income is 54,000 community service, and if they don't pull it in the right place, the Fidesz mayor is gonna take it away from them. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) [[17.10]] Others said they're voting for you because that's what the Christian-Conservative loan shark from the black Audi asked them to do. Prime Minister, people are voting for you out of poverty and fear. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Embarrassing explanation! It's embarrassing.]] The question is, how long can a country's future be built on poverty and fear, because you've been doing it for ten years. You haven't ruled this country for a long time. You are not wondering how to improve the lives of Hungarians, but how to stay in power. Well, I'll tell you what your government performance has been. It creates an enemy image, inspires hatred, divides the nation, discredits its opponents, and tries to keep the Hungarians in poverty, in case they can buy their votes every four years, say, with a bag of toilet paper, because, to shame, this was already distributed in Borsod. Make no mistake, I believe that the election can be won either way, only this country will die. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Don't explain!]] Because the thing is, this nation doesn't need discrediting campaigns and every hour in public TV for lies and alms, but for wealth, predictability, health, a strong, livable region; more governance, less lies. Believe me, Prime Minister, you could win the election by not hating, but settling wages, pensions, settling people's daily lives, doing what you have not done in the last ten years is called government. He's got another year and a half. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Embarrassing! It's embarrassing.]] You wanna try? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2020-10-19-61	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, please.
u2020-10-19-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you for the congratulations. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] We're glad you're here with us. We're listening to you, and we don't know whether to cry or laugh. There's a reason to cry, because the sound you make of people in Borsodi is more than humiliating. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] You lost the election because that's how you talk about people in Borsodi, and you think of them exactly what you're saying here. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Intercoms from Jobbik: Potato! They're scaring the mayor!]] What you're doing here after an election result, which you said we Borsodians were gonna start that avalanche on that day. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] After all, what you're doing is both pathetic and ridiculous. Now that they've broken down the two-thirds [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] I'm thinking of the black knight of the Football Gallop. Let's make a tie. [[Delightfulness and a long applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: More! More! Give it up! Get an education.]]
u2020-10-19-63	Dear Parliament, I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-64	I can't do it, Prime Minister, I see. So you're still not gonna deal with pensions, wages, health, but you're gonna stay with hate, you're gonna stay with demeaning and lying. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But go ahead, show me the protein in your teeth. We oppositions respond to lies, you know, with truth, to hatred together, to sharing unity. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] We're gonna be in a constituency tomorrow in 106. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] We will fight one against one, and we will put an end to your potato kingdom once and for all. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: There will be star loss!]] And speaking of potatoes, Prime Minister. [[He raises a little bag of potatoes. Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government benches:]] Look, the Borsodians are sending you this, and they're telling you not to think about embarrassing them again, because it's gonna cost you. Remember, the Borsodians, the Hungarians, need a living, not humiliation! It's a living, not a humiliation, so it goes back to the sender. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-65	Congressman, I ask you not to announce an illustration, I warn you. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: This is not an illustration! It's potatoes! Peter James, in his hand, the bag goes with potatoes to Viktor Orbán. Hungarian Zoltán follows with a self-bot mounted mobile phone in his hand.]] Congressman, I'm warning you twice... [[Máté Kocsis, György Balla, László Kövér, Lőrinc Nacsa, Dr. Zsolt Semjén and Tibor Pogácsás stand before Viktor Orbán in his seat as Prime Minister. Intercoms from Jobbik: Let him give it to the sender. Call the guard. You're gonna have to hold it for that. Potato kings! A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. The president's ringing the bell. Máté Kocsis takes the bag out of the hands of Peter James, and at the exit of the Chamber he hands it over to the staff of the Office-proof Service.]] Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return, I would like to warn Mr. Group Leader as a last warning. I will inform you that I will take the necessary measures. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman, I hope you paid for the potatoes when you forgot to pay the seamstress. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] I will use this opportunity to secure from here all the voters and residents of Lucky and his district, so that they can continue to count on us, and we will do everything we can to raise the region. And what I am saying to the Member and his party is that you have said that you hope that we will lose two thirds with dignity. We didn't lose him, but I can see that there are two things you can't do: win, lose. (Development and applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2020-10-19-67	Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, The most important thing is the housing and financial security of families. That's what we say. You say, about half an hour or so on television in an ad, that the standard of living for families should be preserved, as if the epidemic had never happened. In the spring, the government announced a moratorium on capital repayments for families. At the time, more and more people were happy about this, but for each of us, compared to what status they had and how desperate they were about the situation, they asked, begged, or even demanded that executions should be suspended, that families be suspended, that the executives should not work. We had to find out why the government wouldn't do that. You will not do it, Prime Minister, because you signed a contract with the EBRD in February 2015, in which you and your government agreed not to make rules that negatively affect the profitability of banks operating in Hungary, will not bring about rules that will hinder the eviction of Hungarian families, this is in the contract on the government's website, and you have also agreed that banks will not cost a penny for the forinting of foreign currency loans. If you are concerned about Hungarian families, Prime Minister, you will not sign such an agreement. Why did you sign it, Prime Minister? Why don't you give up this agreement now that you can see that families won't be in a better position even for the reason of the virus epidemic? 5 to 6,000 evictions a year must be suffered by those who have missed their payment. This agreement is against the interests of the Hungarian people. Prime Minister, please resign. Thank you.
u2020-10-19-69	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, please.
u2020-10-19-70	Thank you very much. I suggest that you re-examine the document in question, just because, if I remember correctly, a few days ago we launched another bank tax and raised and collected HUF 50 billion to deal with the crisis, so I don't know exactly what you're talking about. On the contrary, I would like to make it clear that the repayment of interest has also been postponed, not only that of the repayment of capital, but also that of the repayment of interest. So everyone who has taken out a loan in Hungary has a moratorium on repayment until 1 January, and after 1 January there is an additional deferral for the designated social groups, and for those most in trouble. You don't even have to ask; you have to ask if you don't want to take this opportunity. I think it's a great measure. You're attacking this for some reason, which I don't understand exactly why. For some reason, you're unhappy with the fact that we've just taken 50 billion forints from the banks for crisis management, but if I take a good look, I can see why that is. That's because when we introduced the bank tax, you personally didn't vote for the person who was sitting here. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.20]]
u2020-10-19-71	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-10-19-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, It's not the bank tax, it's the return of this next year, but I was talking about evictions. This year, 4367 Hungarian families were put out on the street, 400 children were removed from the family because you signed a pact with the EBRD in which your government has undertaken not to create any obstacles to evicting Hungarian families; they do not make rules to reduce the profitability of banks operating in Hungary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right.]] Why did you sign this agreement? This is against the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian families. Yet, you are bound by this agreement. Why are they keeping it? Why don't you quit? Why don't you take the side of the Hungarian families? Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-19-73	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister!
u2020-10-19-74	I can only advise you to study it in detail before you talk about anything; now there is a moratorium on eviction again from 15 November. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many families do they put up...]] We can meet your demand so easily: from 15 November there is an eviction moratorium throughout the winter. On the other hand, while we are here, let me mention that not only did you not vote for the bank tax, but you are an old rider, you were sitting with us in this Parliament before 2010, but you voted for other things. Then the words you just said didn't occur to you. You voted in favour of the property tax, voted in favour of reducing pensions, taking pensions [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Oh!]] and also a reduction in public sector wages. Congratulations. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2020-10-19-75	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-76	Prime Minister, you are declaring in a big voice that, on the basis of the national consultation, the Hungarian people do not want the country to stop. This was a waste of national consultation. They could have given that 1900 million forints to nurses, they would have been better off there, because anyone would have told you for free that they didn't want the country to stop; they didn't want the schools to shut down; they didn't want anyone to go on with normal life. There are only conditions for that. The condition of this is that the government defends itself; the condition of defence is that at least they know what the situation is, to put it to the test. Treating an epidemic without testing is like closing their eyes while driving a car so that they can't see how fast the trees come across. The epidemic is spreading in Hungary, but the government is not testing it. Since mid-September, the number of tests has not increased. About one million inhabitants in Hungary have a thousand tests per day; the same number is 1280 in Romania, 1750 in Slovakia, 1980 in Austria, and I could continue. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Still more death...]] You're referring to testing as much as the WHO requires. WHO says it's pretty much right for every five tests to have a positive test... sorry if 5 percent of the tests are positive, so every 20 tests are positive. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Math...]] Compared to this, 10-15 out of 100 tests in Hungary are positive, and today it was 16 times today. Let's add again that Austria was considered a lab, where this number is a third. So they should be tested about three times so that they can be given a realistic account of the spread of the epidemic and effectively defend themselves. Whoever doesn't choose testing chooses to shut down the country. How do you think, Prime Minister, they'll start testing or shutting down the country?
u2020-10-19-77	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With respect to the question, I will inform the House that at the moment we are treating 1896 people in the hospital, 1708 without ventilating, and 188 with ventilating. They are in great trouble, so I hope that from here on out, not only in my name, but also in the name of all Members of Parliament, I express my sympathy for those who are in trouble, and I wish them good health and good luck in their struggle, which they are now pursuing. I would also like to inform you that all PCR tests carried out so far are 904 306; all these tests were free of charge. We only run statistics on the tests that we order, so they're carried out on the basis of an epidemiological order. We are monitoring with epidemiological experts what new testing methods can be found in the world. We've made a decision right now. We see that the so-called antigen tests work with reliability similar to PCR tests, and therefore the experts have decided or suggested that we decide to accept the National Centre for Public Health to introduce testing with antigen tests. This one's gonna start, maybe tomorrow. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-19-79	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-80	Mr. Prime Minister, I am glad that if new testing methods are introduced, and it will be good to have this happen, this is welcome. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] However, it did not respond to a significant increase in the number of tests. And he didn't answer why they stopped the National Election Committee from having a referendum so that everyone could ask for free corona virus testing. If people's opinions are important, why are they blocking this referendum? Looks like you're not choosing testing, you're choosing closure. And then, Prime Minister, there is another question: you are so irresponsible to sacrifice the interests of the country and of the economy for the sake of political success propaganda, because, in addition to compassion, there is also a need for actions; or the other possibility is that you expect to have friends, relatives and business partners in companies ruined by closure. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] acquire ownership, as happened at the airport in Ferihegy. Please respond to that and not to what happened before 2010. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-19-81	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-82	In view of your difficult situation, my fellow Member, I am fulfilling your last request, I am indeed not reading up on the measures that you voted for here as Members of Parliament before 2010, although it is a long list of the world of social sensitivity that you have voted for. But you're right, maybe we should put this aside some other time. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] However, I would like to add to your point that I think that from issues such as testing, how much and how, which is an epidemiological professional issue, a matter of serious medical preparedness, and serious debates are taking place on this issue, it is not worth making a political question about. We are doing everything we can to ensure that Hungary defends itself as best as possible. I'd like to thank the medical staff. The voices that you are hitting and specifically referring to the inadequacy of Hungarian care and epidemiological measures are, in fact, about you devaluing the work of people working in health care, doctors and nurses who are doing everything they can today, as opposed to your attacks, to take care of people who are in trouble. I think it would be worth considering that if you're no longer helping the country defend itself, you should at least stop backing it up. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-19-83	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-10-19-84	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I do not think it is my duty to protect my fellow opposition Members, but I have not heard a statement when opposition representatives have ever attacked defence workers. [[Noise and interruptions in the benches of the governing parties.]] Prime Minister! I would like to ask you, quite frankly, about an ordinary, but extremely serious and concrete issue, a problem that is increasingly affecting the majority of people. This is about maintaining the most important public services, i.e. public transport, water supply, garbage transport. Unfortunately, we can see that these sectors are increasingly in enormous trouble. And I am asking you not to answer that this is not a Prime Minister's mandate, because obviously it is not normally, but I have been running those circles for a very long time to ask ministers and State Secretarys, and there is no response, specifically, while pro-government politicians and Members of Parliament acknowledge that there is a huge problem, so we need immediate action. Here, my fellow Members have quoted that you have said that defence is the first, but the country cannot stop. And what we see is that the most important, the most important public services for the people are on the verge of falling in. And there's obviously no chance for me to list all the problems here in two minutes, so I'd like to ask you about the water sector, and by the way, I'm here to relay a distress signal from professional organizations. [[17 .30]] You can see that a lot of companies are in a state of bankruptcy, and I think you've heard of the water situation in the Great Plain several times, haven't you? We can see it, and everyone can see that there's more and more pipe breakers. There are serious problems with water quality in many places and in many places, pipe systems are in a terrible state, and resources are missing in a billion-dollar scale. The Prime Minister also spoke about this in the summer, in an interview, recognising the need to involve resources in a thousand billion-dollar scale. My question, Prime Minister, is when will you finally sit down with the professional organisations, because whenever I ask them, they will tell you that the government will not speak to them, they will not find a responsible minister to whom they can negotiate in substance. In what way are you planning, and from what source, with what schedule, to involve this source of a certain thousand billion-dollar magnitude in the sector? It guarantees that the water utilities and the companies operating them will always remain national, i.e. municipal and state-owned, and are finally willing to negotiate meaningfully with the local government associations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] having regard to the fact that many pro-government mayors and city leaders acknowledge that they are huge and always directly affecting people [[The president's ringing again.]] which requires immediate government action. Thank you. [[Sándor Szabó will take his place in the notary seat.]]
u2020-10-19-85	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-86	I would like to comment on the first thought of your comment. So when you question the correctness of the epidemiological decision on how and how to test, you are not attacking the government, because this is not a government decision, but an attack on the epidemiological experts and doctors who are, by the way, constantly analysing the data, developing procedures and then suggesting decisions to us. So the attack on the tests, the comments on the tests, is in fact an attack on the epidemiological experts. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm asking you to take this into account. [[Noise from the opposition benches.]] If that weren't the case, you wouldn't be having a political debate about it, you'd be talking about it at the professional level, but you're bringing it here to make a political issue of it. As far as the issue of water is concerned, you rightly see that the Prime Minister is not responsible for the specific issues. I can tell you about the big questions, some of which are listed as Hungary has a continuously updated and extended 10-year development plan for the period 2020-30, and three or four of the most important issues are the modernisation of the entire Hungarian water supply and water system, which will be implemented in the coming years. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-87	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give you the floor in return. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-88	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, you have given me the same answer I used by Secretary of State Schanda, but the problem is that experts believe that HUF 3000 billion is missing in the 15-year horizon beyond the current sources, in order to ensure the most important public service, namely healthy drinking water supply and sanitation, the protection of water bases. My question, Prime Minister, is because we have been hearing this for years now that there will be some kind of strategy and they will take action to determine when this strategy will be completed, when, in what schedule, how much resources they can provide for this sector. And I also have a question, Prime Minister, that it is clear that the municipalities are subject to a very harsh austerity policy, and therefore the municipalities have no room for manoeuvre, they cannot supplement these resources, they cannot maintain the infrastructure that provides the most important public services. The problem is becoming increasingly serious, so I respectfully emphasise once again, by interpreting the professional signals here, Prime Minister, I would like to ask for a responsible response when the government can and when the government intends to act in substance to save the supply of drinking water. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-89	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-90	We are coordinating with the municipalities in part, and on the other hand, we are constantly providing resources, which are also sufficient to ensure that water supply is safe in Hungary today, so water supply is ensured in every corner of Hungary, in the big cities and in the most remote settlements. I hope no one doubts that statement. It's not you. It's because we run a system. You are right, and there will be an opportunity here, I think, to cooperate that we really do have lagoon systems that are now operational, but that they will also be next year is highly questionable. And you are also right that the amount required for a comprehensive modernisation can be measured in a thousand billion. I think 3,000 billion is a lot. Here, I have already observed with Members, especially the opposition, that over a thousand billion are already easily tossed with the two thousand and the three thousand, that is a lot of money! Somewhere above a thousand billion forints, the three thousand is an exaggeration, but in any case, a thousand billion forints is an extremely large sum. In the next ten years, the amount is available step by step, and the entire water network of the country will be renewed. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-91	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congresswoman Timea Szabó has the floor.
u2020-10-19-92	Thank you. Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the birth of your grandson and wish you all the happiness of your family. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] On the other hand, let me move on to a less cheerful subject immediately, and this is that two weeks ago the Parliament passed a law of good intentions, although it was very misplaced, and this is the law on the increase in the wages of doctors, the part of which we supported on the increase in wages, but there are also two paragraphs that could actually bring health into disaster. One is that all doctors can be transferred to any other part of the country for a maximum of two years, and the other is that doctors cannot take a second job; and a third point is that there has been a lack of visible wage increases for healthcare workers. Today, the Hungarian Medical Chamber has issued a compromise proposal on this issue, which suggests that instead of two years, the transferability will be determined and maximized in 44 calendar days per year, or that there will be groups that cannot be transferred, for example, if you have children under three years of age, if you are raising your child alone or if you have children with disabilities. With regard to the other point, the second job, it is proposed that the body designated by the Government should not refuse to grant a licence to an activity which is not incompatible with the functioning of the institution concerned; if it requests authorisation for a health activity which is not carried out by the relevant health institution; or if the authorisation is refused only in duly justified cases. I would like to ask Prime Minister that the Government will meet today's compromise proposal by the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and we can count on what the Dialogue submitted last week, that healthcare workers will also receive an 80% increase in wages. Thank you.
u2020-10-19-93	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-94	Thank you very much for your question, Congresswoman, and your good wishes, too. I would just like to say that in this cycle, nurses will receive a 72 percent wage increase by the time the cycle is over, so we are not that far from 80. The law was indeed voted 100 percent by Parliament; sometimes an angel flies over the Chamber. I think it is a great political and spiritual force to develop detailed rules, because it is also important for the government to see the proportion of Parliament's support for a proposal. The two questions you raised are just two of the many questions that need to be regulated. If you read the law, you will find in it 16 or 18 assigning rules that say that there is still a regulation to be made in that matter, which also applies to conduct. Control is something the law says, and within the framework of it, we will also interpret the aspects of what you say in a government decree. I can't stop thinking that in Hungary control must be available within the healthcare system. Just take a look at the current situation. Now there is no exceptional legal situation, so in the legal sense, the country and health care are operating as usual, but if there were no way to conduct today, hundreds of people would die today because we cannot conduct. So I respectfully ask you to include the experience of this crisis, the pandemic, in your professional contributions, because what is happening now, as opposed to the spring that there is no extraordinary legal situation, yet there is a way for the health government to conduct it, it is inevitable that we can save people's lives and provide them with care. Therefore, we cannot withdraw from that, but we can create sensible rules of detail, as well as the coordination of public and private practice. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-95	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-96	Prime Minister, just because the health epidemic isn't officially established doesn't mean there's an epidemic. [[17.40]] Nearly 1,200 people died in the epidemic, the third worst indicator in the European Union is now the official statistics. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. On Dr. Zsolt Semjén's signal:]] Like it or not, Zsolt Semjén likes it, that's right. And the other, unfortunately, is that healthcare workers' wage increases will not have a 70% rate by the end of the year, and we know exactly how they trick around not raising basic salary. Today we are talking about the fact that for 20 years the health care provider has still brought home 130 thousand forints according to the official payroll. Prime Minister, please understand that three thousand doctors have announced immediately after the adoption of the law that they will resign from state care. This will bring disaster in Hungarian health care if you do not change that. And the doctors didn't ask that they shouldn't be transferred in an epidemic situation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but to have this maximum rule for peacetime, because it does not now [[The president's ringing again.]] distinction in this respect is adopted by law. I ask you to avoid a disaster [[The president's ringing again.]] I want you to listen to the board's suggestions. Thank you.
u2020-10-19-97	Thank you. Congresswoman, you're way out of line. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-98	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, I know that your party has not been in government in the last decades, but it is now in league with parties that have been there, for example, until 2010, and I would only like to draw your attention to the fact that today there are six thousand more doctors working in Hungary than when your allies governed Hungary. Please take this number into account when developing your opinion on our work. I am not afraid that there will be a mass shortage of doctors who cannot accept what the Medical Chamber and the Government have agreed to and will continue to agree. We want sensible rules, while also representing the interests of patients, and accepting the otherwise reasonable demands of doctors. As for the success of the defense, you are saying false numbers here several times, and I would like to underline here that when you say false about the Hungarian defence, you are not attacking the government, but attacking doctors and Hungarian health care. [[Intercoms from the LMP lines.]] The Hungarian health care system is successfully protected. I have WHO's data on October 18, not the data of the Hungarian Government, WHO's data on October 18, which says that the number of people dying per capita within the European Union is 117 per million in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In Germany it is higher, in the Netherlands it is higher, in France it is higher, in Sweden it is higher, in Italy it is higher, in Spain it is higher and in Belgium it is higher. We're preventing some serious countries because we have good doctors and good nurses. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-99	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. How does the irresponsible behaviour of the left hinder successful defence? In response to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister personally for an answer? [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-19-100	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary was successful in the first wave against the coronal virus epidemic. It was successful, because health workers were successful, citizens were following the rules, and it was also due to the government taking the necessary measures in time. We may think it's in everyone's best interest, but it's not. The left took its form again, and they stepped on every measure that served to slow down and stop the coronal virus. For example, the fact that false news has been produced has repeatedly been said between Parliament's walls, allow me to recall a few specific points. For example, Lajos Korózs, a Member of the MSZP Parliament, made and accepted such incredible facts in one of his Kamuvideos that, for example, nine out of ten sent home patients died. This was confirmed by our MSZP fellow Member. Then, in Gergely Arató's speech to Parliament on 16 March, he spoke of the government sending doctors and nurses without protective equipment, masks and gloves, health workers without any basis in the fight against the coronal virus. Then there was the same false news on the left, dear Szabó Timea, that he did not have a parliamentary speech here, in which he claimed that most people would die in Hungary during the coronal virus epidemic. Dear Secretary of State, I ask how this opposition attitude hinders the government in its work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Obviously, the line can be continued for a long time, there were Members who made videos of the lack of adequate protective equipment for doctors and nurses in hospitals and presented visitors with protective equipment. There are left-wing media that report that some hospitals have filled up with coronal viral parts, hospitals that are not assigned to receive coronal viral patients, but have other hospitals, whether assigned to them in the neighbouring county, and are trying to destroy people's trust in the healthcare system for days. During the first wave, we saw that the government was accused of building dictatorships in Hungary and abroad. However, videos released in recent days reveal the same thing, which appeared from the video of the Autumn speech about the fact that those who accused Hungary of building dictatorships at internal meetings of their own party said that they knew that this was not the case. We've always heard from them, they've tried to excuse themselves by saying that they're not attacking Hungary, they're attacking the government, and then, at their own board meeting, they're telling us that what they're saying to the government is actually unreal. They admitted to themselves, to all of them, that they were attacking the government with untruths, when they said they were fighting for the country. How can you fight for the country if you base your attacks on untruths, either by not meeting with Parliament, or by not having protective equipment, or by misuse of the government's extraordinary legal order, which Parliament has otherwise given you as a mandate? It is therefore clear that no cooperation on the part of the Hungarian left could be expected, they were fully aware that what they said in the morning, in the night and in the evening, was unreal, but in recent months, when we are probably living the most trying months of this decade, they are still choosing an open lie rather than helping to defend the Hungarian people and not voting for the bill here. They always talk about speed, the importance of speed, only when it was necessary to vote on the law allowing rapid action, it was not voted here in Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-103	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We all see that it is in the interest of the opposition politicians to make Hungary and Hungarian citizens as bad as possible. Unfortunately, that's where we are. We can also see that almost everywhere in Europe, the opposition has helped the parties and forces currently in government in these months and in these weeks. It's natural behavior. I don't know where they come from, anyway, with this insane hatred and perseverance in order to destroy them, but I can repeat that the behavior, the behavior we can see from them, is, unfortunately, criticizing health workers, the epidemiological experts, they are exposed to this, and believe that they are very badly affected by hearing such sentences in Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I think our job here is to react calmly. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The criticisms, the accusations, the criticisms that they and we have. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, has the right to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There were indeed many accusations about protective equipment, first of all, that there were too few; then that there were too many; then that it was too expensive. They said that Hungary acquired protective equipment at double or multiple prices. It was precisely Eurostat in Brussels who refuted the accusations of the Hungarian opposition, as he said that in recent days a statement came out that Hungary bought masks for example at the price of EUR 5300 per 100 kilograms for which Germany, a country with a much higher absorption capacity, obviously with better negotiating opportunities because of the larger number and much cheaper than Spain, Portugal, Romania, France, Slovenia, Cyprus, Italy or Malta. [[17.50]] But there are things that we've doubled, but that's the doctor's salary. I do not think that if you look around the world at how people defend themselves during a coronal virus epidemic, there is a country that, when there are economic difficulties, increases the pay of nurses by 34 percent and increases the pay of doctors to an unprecedented extent. This is how Hungary defends itself, and there are no financial barriers to defence, which is why we can do it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This unprecedented increase in medical wages during the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-107	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question:, How much does the Hungarian state support the operation of the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-10-19-108	Yeah.
u2020-10-19-109	Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few weeks, the press, especially the left-wing press, has repeatedly dealt with the Hungarian Evangelical Brothers' Association, led by Gábor Iványi. In the past, the community has been removed from the established churches, so MET has turned to the European Court of Human Rights with a need for financial compensation which was considered unrealistic even in Strasbourg. And although they were granted partial compensation, in the grounds for the judgment, the court held that the State had the right to decide which religious communities it intends to cooperate with to carry out public tasks. They then received compensation from the State. And their public education and social institutions will continue to receive the state normative. Yet, according to press reports, the church had accumulated significant utility debts, and they wanted to discharge the gas clocks in its institutions, and this did not take place in the end. They claim that the debt of approximately HUF 100 million was due to the government's withdrawal of state aid. On the first day of the autumn session of the Parliament, the leader of the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, the president of DK, spoke in favour of the small church. He claimed that, despite the government's final judgment, he had not paid them the State aid they deserved for years. Dear Secretary of State, For the sake of clarity, I respectfully ask the State Secretary: how much does the Hungarian State owe to the Hungarian Evangelical Brothers' Union? How much did the Fidesz-KDNP government support the operation of the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood? I look forward to the honour of the Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-19-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Ferenc Gyurcsány, here in the middle of September, drew attention to the religious policy of the Left, with his usual, theatrical babbling, I might say. Before 2010, we know the one month's wages taken from the social, health and educational area under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the left, so he didn't yell at the church maintainers at the time. The church schools were cut off, and he didn't yell. Schools, social institutions for renovating minimal support provided without yelling then. And today, this anti-church attack continues. DK left-wing representatives continue to provoke the churches against their tradition; Ágnes Vadai, Csuhás on their knees! With a cry, István Vácsó, Péter Niedermüller continues the same thing as the others. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] A DK district student said that the Bible is an ancient story book, and yet those who would live their lives by the Scriptures are idiots. The question arises: Why did Ferenc Gyurcsány speak for a small church? Why are you screaming for Gábor Iványi? By the way, is he an idiot, too? I mean, who you claim to be. If it isn't Gábor Iványi who curses their protests, as a church shield. Have you run out of the fully paid HUF 2.2 billion awarded by the Strasbourg court? Would the additional HUF 4 billion be needed for further wrongful demands? I will answer the rest of the details, honourable Member. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-113	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-114	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the information and for the accurate data. According to this, what has taken place on the left in the last few weeks, in connection with the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood, is nothing more than fake news production and political atmosphere; while the left is pursuing anti-church politics, while using the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood in a different political atmosphere. This shows how the opposition fake news propaganda machine works. All Hungarian taxpayers have the right to ask how Gábor Iványi managed to bring together such public utility debts, while their public service institutions not only received and received normative subsidies, but also received additional subsidies over the last ten years. The taxpayer may also be interested to know what became of the compensation, the fate of more than HUF 2 billion. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-116	Since 2010, the Hungarian Evangelical Brothers' Association led by Gábor Iványi has received 5.4 billion for the maintenance of social institutions, 15 billion forints for the maintenance of public education institutions; 106 million for the church; 2.2 billion forints according to the judgment of the Strasbourg Court. That's over 22 billion. He's a liar and a liar, that he doesn't get support, that he didn't get the money he deserved. It is false that some ten million forints were collected from the capital to MAZSIHISZ by some organizations in order to help them out and pay their bills. Otherwise, it is illegal not to pay public utility bills, and it also tells us everything, even though it could have been collected, we allowed the law, otherwise the left did not support, did not vote for the amendment of the church law, it was the only church that did not collect a 1% offer. After that, Ferenc Gyurcsány said it was more important than the lives of some people and the truth here in Parliament. Then listen to the truth, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the others, too, and do not provoke hatred. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Against the Churches! Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-117	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, an independent representative, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When will there be Hungarian-owned, export-capable, market-leading companies in Hungary that generate high added value? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, You are well known for your love of competition in sport and politics. When will this passion of yours finally be felt in the economy? I would like to ask you why, over the last ten years, we have failed to create Hungarian-owned companies with high added value, which would be competitive with foreign multinationals and not only operate from overpriced public procurement and hijacked EU subsidies. Just so we're clear, I'm not discussing the right to set up a national capital class; it's an old vision for you. I agree with that. I am critical of why you do not expect these new capitalists to demand performance and civic virtues such as knowledge, diligence, performance and solidarity. Moreover, the requirement for performance is not only a prerequisite for a growing economy, but also for civil Hungary. It wasn't that long ago that you even advertised it. I don't know if you know this book I hold in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] I really hope so, because you wrote the preface to this book. This is the civil debate paper of Fidesz, preparing for the election campaign of 98, from which I would like to read you a quote. If you are sitting, you should hold on, because this will be very shocking:. The majority of today's Hungarian property is created by a transfer of power, not by performance, but only by exercising power and earning income. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[18.00]] Prime Minister, the sad truth is that you have not created the economic conditions of civil Hungary, you have made an alliance with the top ten thousand instead of the middle class. Instead of small businesses, you bathe the German car industry in milk and butter, and you have created a world that can happen at any time with anyone who is successful, successful, out-of-policy entrepreneur, that on a nice Tuesday, a skinny-haired, puff-jacket NER can sit down against him and ask for his company. If you don't give it, the NAV or the SAO will come. [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] My question, Prime Minister: when you took your Prime Minister's oath in '98, did you dream of such a country? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-119	Congressman, you've gone way beyond your time frame, and I can't afford it any longer. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-120	Although it started out so well, I thought we were in agreement, but then in the end he said it very harshly, and given that such a case is taking place in Hungarian public life right now, that is, if someone as a representative is aware of illegal conduct, and you talked about it at the end, on the part of any authority or individual, you have an obligation to report it. Please don't miss it. Or if you can't prove your point, consider what you're saying. However, as regards the two serious statements made on your question, I would like to make a different voice. First of all, I would like to remind you that, although you accuse my government of people of the otherwise basically plebeius race of eliteism... [[Tibor Nunkovics: Or not...]] Don't be jealous, don't be jealous. The situation is that in terms of poverty, the present Hungary cannot be compared to Hungary ten years ago. I'm not saying it's not my job to praise our own horse, but the Hungarian economy has made efforts over the last ten years, as a result of which, according to every international statement, poverty has been reduced in Hungary. The minimum wage increase is not an elite measure, but it is helping people with less money, and I believe that Hungary has done well in the past. I am not talking primarily about the government's performance, I am talking about the performance of the economy. And I would like to reiterate that our ambition to eliminate poverty and unemployment in Hungary has not been abandoned. Unemployment has been eliminated, and poverty will be eliminated; and in return, I will also be happy to answer your original question about companies. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-19-121	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2020-10-19-122	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, This word "plebejus" is not the first thing that comes up when I think about the behaviour of this government, but it does not hurt me to admit it, unlike most of my opposition fellow Members, that there have been results and progress over the past ten years, there are results that can be welcomed. I'll take that. I would also be delighted with the richness of Lőrinc Mészáros, if I knew that this was a real achievement, and if not smarter than Mark Zuckerberg, at least more diligent and talented than entrepreneurs. But that's not the case, because you don't just reward performance, you're chasing it straight because you see competition in it. I ask all my fellow Hungarians, who, unlike you, still respect authority, performance, civil virtues such as self-care, Christian mentality, Christian based politics and self-care, to join together, find each other, and build a civil Hungary that you have long since renounced and denied. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-123	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-124	Meanwhile, I mined the minimum wage data here: in 2010 the minimum wage was 73 500 forints, now 161 000 forints; the guaranteed minimum wage was 89 500 forints, and now 210 600 forints. So much for the plebeius government. As far as companies are concerned, the number of exporting Hungarian businesses is 38 537. 38 537 Hungarian companies export, so they stand abroad. This is owned by Hungary, so where there is Hungarian majority ownership, there are 30 554 units. And unlike your sense of absence, large Hungarian companies successfully survive in the world. I only scratched a few while you were talking: MOL, OTP, Richter, MVM, Master Good, Pick, Hell, Wallis, Waberer, S, Cordia, Futureal. They all play and stand in an international field. I agree with you, however, that this is not enough, yet, yet, that is not enough! We have a lay-out program, and companies have submitted applications for 560 billion HUF to support their foreign investments. The evaluation is ongoing. Please support the program of foreign Hungarian investments. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-19-125	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I would like to ask Members of the Council, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We'd like to wait for Minister.]] I would like to inform you, Mr President, that Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you say, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, a few days ago you made some serious statements during a radio interview. Among other things, he said that George Soros was buying Western politicians and was financing people in the European Commission. He also said that the Union is corrupt, and if Soros is kicked out of there, it's gone. I suppose you know the Soros method, because I don't know it, I've never spoken to it, but as former Soros Scholar, Fidesz's prominents, who were also Soros Scholarships, I suppose you know what George Soros's method is. You know, that was at the time when you were a liberal, and you were vice president of the Liberal Internationale. In fact, we also know that on 19 October 2010, as Prime Minister, he received George Soros in his office, so that you could be in a good relationship and know you. Prime Minister, the first question is: what did George Soros ask you for for all the money he gave Fidesz and the money he gave you? Now it's been a few years, and it's probably gone, so you can talk about it, or if you don't, your house attorney, Peter Polt, won't be investigating. His second statement was that there is more corruption in Germany than in Hungary. I'm sure he's not talking in the air, because as Prime Minister, he won't do that. Can you give us specifics on what you think about the corruption rate in Germany? This is also important, since your government is entering into strategic agreements with German companies, and we also know that a significant part of the European Union's money coming to Hungary is moving to Germany with various economic transactions. So it would be nice to know what kind of corruption activities you had in mind for Germany. So two questions: what did George Soros ask you for for the money he gave Fidesz and gave you? The other question is what you were thinking about about the German corruption. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-127	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-128	Thank you, Mr. President. As Congressman, you have not spoken to György Soros. I assure you, this time will come, you're making good progress. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As far as the period of regime change is concerned, all I can say to you is that those were times when Fidesz, which was not yet such a huge party, was supported by George Soros on the one hand and István Csurka on the other. Because back then, there was an anti-communist unity in Hungary. But I'm not gonna explain all this to you right now, because I don't have much time. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that corruption, according to the rules of the Hungarian language and according to our international knowledge, means that someone is buying influence with money in order to make a positive decision for him. I'd like to see the man who can influence me with anything in my decision. I can safely tell you that man hasn't been born yet. And you know more about that than I do. However, I would like to make it clear that the follow-up to the Western press does not excuse the lack of information. So if you read not only the Hungarian liberal press, which I see has become your custom, but you could read the German and Anglo-Saxon press, then you could see corruption in German-speaking countries, including Germany, Scandinavia, and I could tell you more. And if they had time to watch, not only the Hungarian government, but also the operation of other European governments, they would see that, for example, Germany is having a ball due to one of the biggest money laundering scandals in the Western world, which threatens one of the largest German banks. [[18.10]] There are currently leaked documents on major money laundering transactions in the international press. Find out about these cases if you want an image of the correct unit of measurement. Although I would add that Hungary does not measure the international unit of measurement to the extent of German corruption, because in Hungary, as long as I am the Prime Minister, there will be zero tolerance against corruption. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. With Tibor Nunkovich's hand pointing towards the ceiling: Watch out! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] No one here can buy a decision. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-129	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman. [[Tibor Nunkovics: What a beautiful ceiling!]]
u2020-10-19-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, there are still things left in the old days that were a real liberal response from you at the moment. Prime Minister! You claim then that George Soros pumped hundreds of millions of forints into Fidesz, your education, the Soros Scholarship and everything today, and therefore did not ask you for anything as compensation. So you didn't do anything. Of course, we should accept that. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: What have you been drinking?]] However, it reassured me that if you say the corruption in Germany, that Hungary is not threatened by the corruption rate in Germany, so we can rest assured from now on that Angela Merkel's son-in-law will not win the public lighting tenders, not Angela Merkel's Strokeman Lőrinc Mészáros, but yours, and, of course, we can rest assured that she will not have Angela Merkel and the German government to fly and vacation László Szíyi's luxury jet, but you and your government. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-131	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-10-19-132	Obviously, you're planning for a longer time in political life. The advice I give you is that the lies you're spreading are not worth believing. Making decisions and forming an opinion on the basis of it is certainly not useful. I would like to emphasise once again: we have a government that promotes zero tolerance in some important matters, such as corruption. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] You can never buy any influence during this government's period. I couldn't and couldn't. Whoever tried ended up at Jobbik and corrupted the whole Jobbik. That's what made you the most corrupt party in Hungary. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-19-133	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the ministers are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. [[Some of the people in this room are leaving the room.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members who leave this room to do so quietly and in a short time, if possible. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Ms Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: "Youths of October." Minister, because of your absence, Mr. Sándor Bodó has given him the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-19-134	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In a few days, October 23rd, the anniversary of the revolution in 56. Most of the time in the festive speeches it is said that the revolution began with the rebellion of Hungarian youth. It was the college students who had enough dictatorship, had enough of the fucking power, and couldn't take it anymore. These young people are appreciated by you, and rightly so. Yet, when the students rebelled 64 years ago, the power of that time called them subversives and mobs. After all, history has confirmed that they were right. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to tell me if you understand and give them the truth about students rebelling against the arbitrariness of 64 years ago, why you cannot understand today's arbitrariness. 64 years later, it seems to me that it is not easy for you to stand on the right side, for the arbiter you object to is your arbitrariness, the Fidesz. Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, Notice that by now you have become the oppressor. You take away the independence of the university, appoint a soldier as chancellor. You gave the students an ultimatum. You're trying to break the rightful resistance of university students. Notice this: you, the Fidesz, have become the repressive regime. College students are right. That's why you can't win. They may overcome in some way, as the oppressors won in 1956, but this victory is only apparent. Why can't you just admit that in this situation, you can only lose? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What do you think you're doing?]] Why don't you just give me back the independence of the universities? Why don't you step back until there's more trouble? Thank you for listening. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What do you think you're doing? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2020-10-19-135	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-19-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! When I read the title of my fellow Member's speech, I was very shocked. And then, beyond that, I think that beyond the shock, we can't just leave it alone. The title sounds to me like the young people of October. To draw a parallel, especially from that bench, with 56 freedom heroes, I think it is extremely cynical and tasteless. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] I think we need to reject this at all costs. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] Not easily, but by passing this introduction, allow me, by the way, to draw attention to some specific measures and possibilities of the change of model, because it seems that in today's world it seems as if it is lost. In any case, the aim is to have a more modern and modern theatre education in Hungary, one that is a knowledge centre, even more so in the domestic and international context. Obviously part of this is the development of corporate market cooperation, the development of an own revenue-generating capacity, the development of technical equipment, the possibility of more flexible employment opportunities in the university, facilitations in public procurement, and a predictable longer-term public funding. This is actually the aim of the change of model and the resolution of the infrastructure situation, and if we can start the university on this path, I think that in a few months or a few years, everyone will say that this is okay. Now all we have to do and do is put these topics on the table at the same time, but also one at a time, and make sure that the negotiating table is decided on these issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-137	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-138	Dear Secretary of State, There is no repressive power that can give up and recognize its own tyranny. Looks like you guys are no exception. They're squealing their trained communication panels that have nothing to do with reality. I can only repeat what I just said: today you, the Fidesz, are the repressive regime. You're taking away the freedom of universities. There's no ideology to explain that. Therefore, if you do not withdraw the measures to abolish university leave by 23 October, do not take the names of young people 64 years ago into their mouths as repressive powers. They rebelled for their freedom, just as students of the University of Theatre and Film Arts. Long live Hungarian freedom! Long live the country! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: MSZMP!]]
u2020-10-19-139	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-19-140	Thank you very much. They are certainly not horse-zungs, but a real fact, which I can inform you about, because in this transformation there is one and a half billion forints available to support the training. [[18.20]] For rent, HUF 200 million, for teacher, teaching staff and master courses 300 million, for infrastructure development half a billion forints, for the preparation of campus construction program 50 million for temporary campus rental 150 million for HUF 300 million in reserve. If these resources do not deserve to be decided at the negotiating table on how and how they are used, then we do not see at all what the purpose is. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Pósán: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-141	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. More than 1,000 dead viruses have been lost by the Orbán government with the title of the COVID War. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-19-142	We'll open a champagne someday when the Minister is here, because I haven't met him yet.
u2020-10-19-143	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-10-19-144	I accept the Secretary of State's reply, yes.
u2020-10-19-145	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-19-146	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is, although the pro-government propaganda door is trying to make a difference, we know very well that the situation in viral and mortality data is chilling, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members. And above all, here are two very important statistics: from the end of May to the end of September, i.e. in four months, fewer people died from coronal virus infection than in the first two weeks of October; so less in four months than in the last two weeks. And this morning, the number of confirmed deaths is 1173; 1173 families are tragic. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Remember what the Prime Minister said? The number and proportion of the dead will show how successfully they manage the defense. Well, I report, you can say, you have failed, and you are responsible for the deaths of many Hungarian people. And about the ridiculous lie that Viktor Orbán said, that anyone who gets sick will be cured, I don't think there's any need to talk, that's stupid. You have so far not cured 1173 Hungarians according to the logic of Viktor Orbán. Your grave human, moral, and political responsibility is not to carry out sufficient testing, to find out who could have met and who could have been further infected. We understand that the country must work, but what we don't understand is why you call this chaos and tragedy working. Today, in European comparison, the country is infernally ill, there is not enough testing, many at home are trying to get through the disease without a positive test, and there are tens of thousands of people living in Hungary today with coronal viruses, and most of them are free to continue infection. Testing and Fair [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I demand health care for everyone. [[The president's ringing again.]] Save what can be saved. Christmas is a long way from home, and I'm afraid there's gonna be a lot more deaths. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-147	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members, colleagues. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2020-10-19-148	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In all the countries of Europe, we can see numbers that we could not see in the spring or in the beginning of autumn, unfortunately, they are very large in the epidemic curve everywhere. However, if you look at the number of people who have died per million people, you can say that in Hungary 117, and in the EU Member States 350. So, thank God, Hungary is one of the more effective defence countries. If you look at the data in France: 32,000 infected daily, 9,000 people are hospitalized. Hospitals in central and southern Italy, Naples, Milan, are beginning to fill up in critical situations. In no more than a week, in a week, honourable Member, the number of new infected has doubled in Italy. Those who do not require more serious care are no longer trying to cure them in hospitals, but in hotels. In England, the number of infected people increased from 116 thousand to 224 thousand in a week. They're building temporary epidemic hospitals. In Germany, the number of new infections reached critical levels in 30 regions, with a tremendously rapid rise. You talked about the fact that in Hungary we can talk about a thousand dead people, and in Belgium, with a similar size of 11 million, there are 10,000 deaths. Belgian indicators doubled in one week. The number of people who died increased by 96 percent, the number of people who were infected by 89 percent. But if you look at it, there are more than 10,000 people in Romania in the hospital, 5800 in the death rate. You spoke of a thousand people in Hungary, some more than a thousand people died in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 5800 in Romania. In some cases, a deceased patient's ventilator was used immediately to treat another patient. [[The president's ringing again.]] In the last two weeks, the number of infected has on average increased by one and a half times. And I could give you more examples. Honourable Congressman, There is a terrible epidemic in all other countries, but still, thank God, we are in about a third of the number of dead. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Varga is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2020-10-19-150	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In spite of the total number of deaths in which country you now list, I am interested in the 1173 Hungarian deaths here and now. And indeed, I feel sorry for everyone, the French, the Italians, the Romanians, everyone, but it does not comfort everyone, however, what is happening in Hungary. We are getting worse in proportion to the population, as shown by the October figures. There's nothing to sugarcoat. And you're only as capable as your minister says you can hold every event on October 23rd, and the chief of staff says you can't. That's pretty much what you guys know. And the thing is, there's not enough doctors, there's not enough nurses, there's only so many people who know how to breathe. Irregularity and chaos, what they're doing and what they've done. And as a result, more and more patients are going to die. That can't be explained and explained. I demand once again that you act at once, Hungarian lives depend on you doing something. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or they're just doing propaganda all the time. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-151	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2020-10-19-152	Honourable Congressman, When you were supposed to act here in Parliament, you did not give any kind of support to act quickly here in Parliament. When Hungary was to be protected abroad, you attacked Hungary with unjust claims. And it is now obvious that you know that what you are saying in Hungary abroad is untrue, honourable Member. And if you look around other countries: in Poland you have 8 thousand new infections every day; in the Czech Republic you have also been diagnosed with 8,000 new infections every day. In the surrounding countries, too, there is a tremendous rise in the epidemic. And in Hungary, it is precisely the measures introduced by the government that still hold 117 people who have died in Hungary per million inhabitants. This is 213 in Switzerland, 389 in the Netherlands against 117 in France, 498 against the Hungarian 117. This shows that these measures were taken in Hungary in a timely and effective manner. The real problem is that for you, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] there was no part of it, because no support was provided for any such thing, only where it could be prevented from the Crown Virus Act through the national consultation...
u2020-10-19-153	Thank you.
u2020-10-19-154	...to the spread of false news. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Hungary as a assembly plant?" It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. I ask the congresswoman to accept the person to whom she is responding. [[Márta Demeter: I accept, Mr President.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-19-156	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Because of your policy, the Hungarian economy is characterised by a lack of balance, which manifests itself in the fact that government subsidies are almost exclusively directed towards multinational companies, or, moreover, in this way I say, the NER's so-called capitalists, but it is rather directed towards its big dogs, while small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary have to settle for their propaganda machines. And the situation would not have improved, but it got worse, as the National Bank and the HCSO epidemic reports show that inflation will continue to hit small-scale active households and pensioners first and foremost next year, since their consumption structure is the most vulnerable to price increases. Food prices are constantly rising, increased by 7.3 percent in one year, seasonal food by more than 18 percent, sausages by 17 percent in Paris, sugar by more than 11 percent, flour by 11 percent, eggs by 9.1 percent. And this year, prices have increased by 3.5 percent for all households and 4 percent for pensioners. [[18.30]] As a result, while last August the weight of the apple cost an average of HUF 305, now in August it had to be paid HUF 624. The question arises of how this will be the three-fisted fruits of the day prescribed by Müller Cecília, Mr. Secretary of State. The same is the case for bakery products: last year it was 312 forints for white bread, 367 forints in August this year. It is not by accident that LMP initiated a reduction of VAT on basic foods to 5%, as this would be in the interest of the people. And it is clear that the two-thirds Fidesz does nothing but support the multinationals and its own billionaires, not the working people, and the Hungarian people pay the highest taxes every time they buy Europe. So, my question, Mr. Secretary, do you want to change this for the next year and a half? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-19-157	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-10-19-158	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Compared to the title of your immediate question, Hungary is asking about it as a assembly plant. Now I'm gonna ask you back which vegetable or fruit is being assembled at which plant. He was going to be a big hoax on the fact that he was finally talking about food prices. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Such a gentleman!]] But before we begin the final development of why the government does not reduce VAT, I would also like to draw your attention as a congressman who spoke on the same issue last week: the government and Parliament reduced their VAT to 5 percent of a number of basic foods, from live pigs to poultry meat and eggs to fish and milk. However, when the Parliament presented it to Parliament, you did not vote for any of them, and it is incomprehensible that you are fighting a regular struggle in Parliament, that, at this time of crisis, otherwise, when the state budget will miss 1400-1500 billion due to the economic difficulties caused by the virus, you will come up with a reduction in the VAT on the basic food that remains. Of course, this could form the basis for a social debate to discuss when the time has come from an economic point of view, from a budgetary point of view, from a point of view of social justice, how to further reduce VAT may not be in a time of crisis. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] from a budgetary and economic point of view. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds. Z. Carpathian Daniel: At least one clapping!]]
u2020-10-19-159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Márta Demeter should be rejoined.
u2020-10-19-160	Thank you, Mr. President. So the Ministry of Finance is also an active part of the government policy of supporting only large capital, multinational companies, while domestic SMEs suffer while people are constantly paying higher taxes, paying higher VAT on all purchases, paying higher prices for the highest VAT in Europe. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that my data request has shown that companies exceeding EUR 750 million in turnover have, for the first time in recent years, paid half and then a third of the taxes in Hungary as before. So these multinational companies are constantly taking the money out of Hungary, while Hungarian people are not better off and prices are rising. Therefore, my question is that you would change the policy that now considers Hungary to be a assembly plant, while the prices of fruit and vegetables have increased by 46 percent in the last year, and the Hungarian people are increasingly finding it difficult to buy basic food. Will they change this policy?
u2020-10-19-161	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2020-10-19-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are probably unaware of the Hungarian government's SME policy, how support for small and medium-sized enterprises is developing. [[Z. Kárpat Dániel: Unfortunately, yes!]] I don't know, are you speaking up? Or what's your problem with always talking into my answer? [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Don't be sensitive, Mr. Secretary. Answer me!]] I'm going to highlight one thing for you in this time, and that's how you got access to credit from 2010, for example, your interest rate. While in 2009 it was 13.2 percent, now the average interest rate is 2.96 percent. From 10 to 19 HUF 5500 billion in reduced loan and capital funds helped finance SMEs. At the end of 18 there was HUF 5700 billion of loans and equity financing, one third of which had a state discount and 20 percent had state-supported ready-paying guarantees behind bank loans. Look, if this isn't real and real support, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I can't argue with you on this matter. The government supports small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2020-10-19-163	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: I accept.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Mellar.
u2020-10-19-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Excuse me, but I would like to refer you back to Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State, who stressed how much money the University of Theatre and Film Arts will receive, but did not talk about what was going on with democracy and freedom. On the pro-government side, they don't seem to want to understand that there are things that can't be bought with money, such as freedom and democracy. Sorry about the detour. My question is about the Crown Virus crisis. Education has been particularly difficult to deal with, or has put to the test both general and secondary education, for example, 17 teachers and complete classes have been quarantined from the St. Mor School Centre in Pécs, and the high school has moved to digital education. According to the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers, there are three teachers who have been confirmed to have died from a coronal virus infection; six of ten surveyed workers are very afraid of the disease. Compared to this, State Secretary Zoltán Maruzsa said that there is no need for any action and immediate intervention in the current situation. Meanwhile, secondary schools in Slovakia have been closed, in Slovenia they are moving up from the fifth grade to digital education in secondary schools, in the Czech Republic a rotation system has been introduced in upper secondary schools. Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask what the government intends to do in order to protect the 150,000 Hungarian teachers and the 1.5 million students from the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-165	Thank you, Congressman Mellar. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-10-19-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You made a detour in the beginning, so let me make a detour. These are nice words that you want to fight for freedom and democracy. Does this fit into a horse-riding attack in downtown Budapest? Did it affect the tear gas distribution of peaceful memorialists? Did the porcupine lift people up? Is this your democracy you're fighting for? Is that what you're trying to create? It is you who are committing violence in this Parliament, the Hungarian left. Sometimes they take the pulpit, sometimes they attack government representatives, sometimes they don't let them run the meeting. Are you the Democrats? ! Are you the nonviolent, honourable Member? No, as in history, you and the extremists are not afraid to use violence. Neither Ferenc Gyurcsány had any skruples on 23 October 2006 nor has he been here in Parliament since you were active. So much for your freedom and democracy. Your freedom and your democracy is that you can do anything and everyone else be quiet. As far as educational institutions are concerned, honourable Member, the vast majority of Hungarian people at the national consultation said that Hungary should work. Part of this is that in addition to increased security measures, but schools also work, because if children cannot be brought into schools, the placement of the child during the day can be a problem for parents, which could even endanger their workplace. Therefore, as early as the end of August, we sent out the protocols and suggestions that would obviously help us to avoid infection in every school. We've delivered a sufficient number of disinfectants to schools. From October 1st, we've got body temperature measurements at all schools. We try to avoid or make safer any time at school when classes can mix with each other, so that even the order of school meals changes somewhat. [[18.40]] Special classes and other occupations are not kept in schools, as far as possible, in order to reduce the risk of contamination, to minimise the risk of maintaining the country's viability. This is the way we intend to continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Mellar.
u2020-10-19-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I completely agree with you. If in 2006 something as serious as eyeballs and the like has happened, why hasn't it been initiated in the last ten years to bring out sinners and punish them? You've been two-thirds power for ten years. Or why wasn't this case brought to international courts? Why do they keep talking about him here? By the way, I'd be there to punish the guilty, because they have to be punished. Sin can't be tolerated. On the other thing: I recognise that you have actually taken measures to restore the situation in schools, but the current results, data, diseases and figures show that these measures are few. And if we look at international examples, it would be possible to make the education system safer while maintaining its functionality. That's what I've been trying to ask you, and that's what I've been trying to do. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-19-170	Thank you very much. We did not wait until 2010, in 2006 the legal committee that tried to press charges stood up. Only you personally and the left then why do you want to help Ferenc Gyurcsány back into power? But it's a rhetorical question this afternoon. If I look at the results, how effective this defense is, then I agree that we will increase these security measures where possible. We therefore increased the measures introduced from 1 October to make schools more secure. In 1.35 percent of all kindergartens there is an extraordinary break in these 19th-day conditions, there is an extraordinary break in 0.42 percent of all schools, there is a digital working schedule outside the classroom for the entire school, 0.48 percent of schools, and less than 4 percent of schools have a class with digital work schedules. So I see that these measures have successfully stabilised these data at a persistently low level in schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Csaba Nagy, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. Mulaszttatte the left-wing party leaders when they turned a blind eye to the suspicion of corruption? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-10-19-172	Yeah.
u2020-10-19-173	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Csaba Nagy.
u2020-10-19-174	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, An interim election was held on 11 October in the 6th constituency of Borsod County. The people in the election clearly said they didn't want the left who could do anything for power and money. On the day after the fall of the left-wing coalition led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, Ákos Hadházy announced that the corruption case with László Bíró was much more serious than what the government page had previously announced. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The potatoes are on sale!]] I quote: if Judge had won, not only would a racist man have entered Parliament, but a man who was quite clearly involved in spending a significant part of the HUF 50 million EU support on himself instead of a small team of real development. Hadházy confirmed to the press that he had also informed the left-wing party leaders about this, but instead of taking any meaningful action, they listened deeply and separated themselves from the independent Member in a joint statement. The mayor, Gergely Christmas, who had not yet been offended by the judapest, denied that Hadházy had sought him out. However, despite the claim that Hadházy had not contacted either of them, the nail came out of the bag, as Péter Márki-Zay admitted on his social side that he had spoken to him and knew his position. Hadházy and the left-wing party presidents as MPs are officials, and therefore there is suspicion of a corruption crime, a failure to report it. According to press reports, the Central Investigator's Attorney General will decide within days to clarify the legal situation. The silence around the left is noticeably high. They are silent not only about the election results, but also about their own responsibilities, because they wanted to send a man to Parliament who made openly anti-Semitic statements, broke out his employees in Varroda, and even hadházy said he was involved in a serious corruption case. The left has failed in Christmas, Gyurcsányos, Márki-Zayostul, Kunhalmistul, all of it. The Hungarians do not ask for false horse-zunges or anything related to Gyurcsány's name. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State how the left party leaders failed to turn a blind eye to the suspicion of corruption. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-175	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-10-19-176	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the question arises in man that there really is no candidate on the whole left who is not anti-Semite and who does not have confused economic affairs. You really couldn't find one of these all over the left? Everyone has given up all their principles for this election. Of course, the voters didn't approve of that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Do you believe your own lies?]] The older left gave up the principle that he didn't settle with the anti-Semites, Jobbik gave up being a right-wing party and was trying to help Ferenc Gyurcsány into power. And to do so, they found a candidate who called them judapests and lice slides who were marching in front of his house. Those who previously staged candlelights and parades and protest demonstrations because of this tenth have gone and campaigned for this candidate. It is, after all, the bottom of human dignity, we must say, honourable Member, that everyone has given up all their former principles. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Buy potatoes! The potatoes are on sale!]] And it is also important to decide that the left that says that the government is corrupt on the basis of the corruption sources of Ákos Hadházy, when the first question arises that someone on their side was not the seamstress, who did not have the highest salary, they were very small money, but Ákos Hadházy claims that this money was not spent on the payment of small-money seams by the candidate on the left, but claims in his Facebook entry that he spent it on himself, the manager or the management. And there is not enough purification in any left-wing politician to tell us that there is truth in what Ákos Hadházy said. Because we didn't hear two sentences from the opposition here, from the left. One is to congratulate the winner, the other is to see that there is truth in what Ákos Hadházy said. It shows that you, your honesty, can't be trusted by the people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: He was very weak.]]
u2020-10-19-177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csaba Nagy also has the right to a rejoinder.
u2020-10-19-178	Thank you very much. Nothing seems to change as time progresses. I remember when Márton Gyöngyös was Vice President of Jobbik [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Gyöngyösi! At least learn his name. You can't even read his name on a paper!]] He wanted to list the Jewish representatives, the homies here in the room. If I am to be yelled at like this, my fellow Members, I would like to say to you that I fully agree with the opinion that Gábor Vona has taken the soul of Jobbik, but Peter James has also sold it. So I think that this left-wing cooperation, which consists of you, Jobbik, MSZP, DK and Dialogue for Hungary, is a cooperation that calls into question social values. All political leaders and actors must condemn anti-Semitism. The behaviour of the left is unacceptable both in the failure to report and in the destruction of public life. Mr. Secretary, this is intolerable. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-179	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa, the representative of KDNP, asks an immediate question... oh, I'm sorry, there's still a rejoinder coming from the Secretary of State.
u2020-10-19-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for your patience with the following. It seems that for the left, the party book is equal to the certificate of innocence. Whoever has a betterman, DK or MSZP party book, even though another left-wing politician says that the management of this man's business is very difficult, but since he has a better party book, it is clear that for one second no letter will be read from what was referred to as an infallible document in the case of Ákos Hadházy, which has always been cited, which has always been referred to as evidence that their political opponents, the right-hand side, are corrupt. Now the same man is disfellowshipped in just one second, being cast out only because he may have exposed the truth about a candidate; not only that he was an anti-Semite, but also that he was unfairly filmed, he unfairly used the money that was supposed to be put out to pay for more difficult seamstress. There's no humanity, no decency in any of the left parties. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.50]]
u2020-10-19-181	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ms Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How credible is an EU report if it is based on false information? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner has given him the right to reply. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] It accepts the identity of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-10-19-182	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, After being tired enough to support Romanian candidates, after writing a letter of congratulations to the new Hungarian mayor of Murosvásárhely in Romanian, they admitted again at Momentum that Hungarian interests mattered nothing to them, where they could do it, working against our country. Recently, a video was released in which Anna Donáth, MEP of Momentum, admitted that there had been deliberate misrepresentation of Hungary in connection with the Crown Virus Act in the EU, although they knew precisely that they were telling lies about their own country. The fear of the Momentum has had its consequences: their lies have been taken over by the Hungarian left, the EU institutions and politicians, and the international press have given a parrot-like reply to the accusations that are more absurd than they are. Instead of helping the defense, the momentists competed with other opposition parties about who could create as many false news as possible. Anna Donáth intimidated the European public with the lie that they had ceased to operate in Hungary, and that there would be no more elections, even in Lucky, who received them. Anna Donáth also lied when she said that she did not agree with Věra Jourova; she found out that she was informally filling the Commissioner's head with fake news, who then spoke amazingly about Hungary and the Hungarian people. In his speech in autumn, the MEP, who is a momentous MEP, also said that he distributes discrediting, lying propaganda about Hungary through a number of informal phone calls and conversations, and regularly consults the new Sargentini, the French Green Party MEP Gwendoline Delbos, who will continue to keep the attacks on Hungary on the agenda. Diagnosis is simple: it attacks our left-wing country at a repeated level through all possible international connections. The representation of Hungarian interests is not among their duties, they are pleased that our country is being insulted or condemned, and while we represent Hungary in Brussels, they represent Brussels in Hungary. I ask the Secretary of State: how credible is an EU report if it is based on false information? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-183	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2020-10-19-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, It is very good that the congressman referred to this election in Romania in connection with the Momentum [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What a coincidence!]] There is such a false debate on the part of the Momentum that they are attacking not Hungary, but the Hungarian government, and not the Hungarian nation, but it is a very interesting thing that both Slovakia and Romania, where there is not a Hungarian government, are campaigning against the Hungarian parties. The Momentum, therefore, has a problem primarily with the members of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian parties, regardless of whether they operate in Hungary or abroad, this is confirmed by the facts. The other part is the particular report that was produced in Brussels. We know that out of the 12 NGOs that have been involved, 11 of them were funded by György Soros, although after today's parliamentary day, when Jobbik became an enthusiastic servant of this group, nothing is surprising, so it is obvious that the reports, background materials that have been produced, did not support Hungary, but are accusing him of all kinds of false things, whether in connection with justice or the media situation. Interestingly, these have not been included in the Commission report and country report in reports by other States on which other reports have been made much stricter. The other part is that not only the organisations financed by Soros, but also the Momentum representatives have shown a very two-faced attitude in this case, since Anna Donáth personally declared in an open-air television debate that she had not consulted with Věra Jourova, and then, in a video from an internal video chain, she claimed that she had filled the Commissioner's head with the data that she had to publish every three days. He also admitted in another discussion that the information about the operation of Parliament was known to be false, and, in fact, the entire Brussels and Western press was ravaged against us, claiming that the Hungarian Parliament did not meet, but that I will continue these cases which prove this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2020-10-19-185	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2020-10-19-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From time to time, we wonder why they are good for their regular condemnation of Hungary in Brussels, why it is good for István Ujhelyi or even for Márton Gyöngyösi or the representatives of the agency party, for momentary representatives, Anna Donáth, Katalin Cseh, to regularly discredit their own country on the international stage, or to spread lies and false news about Hungary on a regular basis. Obviously, because they do not want to represent Hungary in Brussels, they are constantly on the side of double standards and lies in Brussels, Márton Gyöngyösi, who recently wanted to list Jewish representatives, is now serving the liberal elite in Brussels. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] They are constantly attacking our country, their own country, which is incomprehensible to us. We stand in the face of this phenomenon, Hungary is the first, we will work for Hungary, and our representatives represent Hungary in Brussels, and not the other way around, as left-wing representatives do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2020-10-19-187	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. You have the opportunity to rejoin Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Hard!]]
u2020-10-19-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Returning to continue with what was said, Katalin Cseh, another representative of Momentum, claimed that the Hungarian government had crossed the red line, in contrast to Anna Donáth, there is another recording on which she claims that the Hungarian government had not crossed the red line. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So this is a very interesting recording that the members of the same party, sitting a few seats apart in the European Union Parliament, are able to say the opposite, just to raise political profits. I am very pleased that my better fellow Members are so eager to defend this group. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: No! You're so good at talking. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] because it is obvious that under the banner of Ferenc Gyurcsány, all of them must unite, and that autumn children must carry the same style as the great master. I believe that this will result in the same result as in 2010. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-10-19-189	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister, without a wallet for the families, an immediate question:. Where is the trick behind the CSOK? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Róbert Zsigó was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Z. Carpathian on Daniel's mark:]] Yes, it indicates that you accept the person of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-190	Mr President, Dear House, We've heard a lot of government lecture panels and C-category stand-up performances in the last few minutes, but I'm sorry that the big vest runs out when you have to answer professional questions. The Minister has all my respect, but she walked by me in the hallway when she could have stayed here to answer the question from which it is obvious: the question about the real problems of Hungarian homes, demographics and real people. I don't want to get involved with the Secretary of State on this one, but if you have such confidence, then you have to answer some real questions. From 1 January, the government will launch a home renovation programme to support renovations in such a way that people pay for it first and then get some of it back. I'm asking why. Why this circle cannot be broadened in such a way that our compatriots living in a difficult line can use it, so they do not have to give them prior credit, but, where appropriate, make all of this available to a wider circle. After all, we see that once again the government's purely neoliberal economic model and family policy are in place, the rich and the most fortunate are able to make use of these opportunities in one hundred percent. I am not sorry for them, but what I see is that former home savers, renters, college students, and young people in the city stay out of government development and ideas, and they also have demographic goals. [[19.00]] With regard to the recovery programme, Mr Secretary of State, I have another legitimate question as to why we do not extend these to those who do not yet have children, but who would like to have children. What makes you think someone who doesn't have children doesn't have children? Of course there is, only in a desert environment where young Hungarians need support. Your method doesn't support these young people, it's just trying to operate in a narrower direction, purely neoliberal. That is why I call on you to extend the opportunity to all Hungarian citizens in accordance with the availability of well-being. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2020-10-19-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the first sentence, let me refer to your first sentences. If you've accepted my identity as the responding person, I think it's pointless to complain about who will answer your question. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. Since 2010, we have increased the amount of support for families by two and a half times, and, as you said, we are helping families with a new home creation program. Allow me to mention some of the results of the CSOK, the family home-building discount, so that you can see that this has brought real help to Hungarian families. Since its introduction in 2015, CSOK has been used by 151 thousand families, it has contributed to the home creation of 632,000 people, and there has been 476 billion HUF support for families. According to the number of children, 15 percent of the claimants are single children of 23 thousand families, almost half of them, 47 percent of them are 71 thousand families, two children, and about two fifths of them, 38 percent of them took up support for three or more children. By the way, about two thirds of the parents, 99 thousand families only after existing children, and what you mentioned in reply, more than one third of them claimed the benefit by accepting some 52 thousand new children. The latter, by the way, undertook to give birth to some 78,000 more children. This is more than the population of Szombathely. So I think that everyone who had the opportunity could benefit from this discount. We've opened the housing and home renovation support gates wide open. I ask you to be patient, since the announcement has been made, but the detailed rules are being worked out now, so please allow us so much opportunity that when we do this, we will inform everyone of all the details. What we want to do is to get as many families as possible, as many children as possible, to use home renovation support. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-19-193	Thank you very much, Mr Róbert Zsigo. Dániel Z. Carpathian has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-10-19-194	Mr President, Dear House, Mr Secretary, my patience would be infinite, but when you come up with an idea, stand up to televisions and cameras, come on, let the opposition try to add to that their suggestions for improvement. But I'm asking you to take your job seriously. I don't know who wrote these panels, which, by the way, didn't even cut into the subject, just to the point, but I asked you two specific questions. Don't look at me and the voters behind us as idiots. You are sitting here to give concrete answers to very specific questions. Our professional relationship dates back to 2010, we were on the same committee, and I've always respected you for your straight and proper work. Why, then, would you now do that by avoiding these questions in a sneaking way? If these details are not drawn up, why did they go public? We do demand rights for those who do not yet have children for financial reasons, but want to have children, want to live in normal housing conditions. In the meantime, you allow thousands of evictions on the other side, and essentially and mostly only benefit the rich. It is a purely neoliberal model, and we demand equal welfare opportunities for everyone. I need you to respond to that, please, in substance. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-10-19-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, it is, as you said, Member, that we have been working together in committee and in Parliament for several cycles, and so far this work has been relatively predictable and professional, although you also remember that we disagreed on a lot of things. But now I see that you've been kicked out of Borsodi's election defeat, the lucky election defeat of this predictability. I would ask you not to be influenced by your president, who, as you have proved today, is unable to control his emotions and cannot lose. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Once in a while, Your Honour. The government didn't abandon the families in the epidemic, we started the biggest home-building program of all time. From 1 January, we will introduce the 5% VAT, the families with children using the CSOK will be able to recover even this 5 percent, and we will also contribute to the renovation of their home by a maximum of HUF 3 million, and according to today's announcement, the purchase of both new and used apartments will be free of charge for families with children who receive the CSOK. We work to make sure that every Hungarian family has a roof over its head. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-19-197	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Zsigo. Dear Parliament, Mrs Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: . Whose interest is it to cosmeticise the employment data in Hungary? It's an address. Minister Sándor Bodó has appointed Minister of State to respond to his absence. I'm asking you, it's acceptable to the responder.
u2020-10-19-198	Thank you, Mr. President, I accept, yes.
u2020-10-19-199	You have the floor, Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2020-10-19-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Domestic government communication differs significantly from Eurostat data on employment data, which is a cause for concern because it is not the first time that cosmetic numbers are made available to the public here at home. If ever, it is not worth chasing false illusions in the middle of an economic crisis. According to Eurostat data, employment decreased by 3.5 per cent in the second quarter compared to the first quarter and the labour market decreased by 5.6 per cent compared to the same period in the previous year. In these data, the mass of those who have been sent on unpaid leave does not even appear. In comparison, the figures of the HCSO refer to a fall in employment of 1 and 1.3 per cent respectively. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, in reply to my last immediate question, acted as if our country were not affected by rising unemployment and the European champion inflation rate. That is simply not true, Mr. Secretary. If you have a different understanding of these data, the problem is, if you want to make the electorate false, that's an even bigger problem. The second quarter data show a much worse picture than in the first quarter, but at least it is in line with Eurostat reports. However, you are listening carefully to the fact that the European Commission predicts brutal unemployment of 11.5 percent and 12 percent respectively for the third and fourth quarters. The most important thing in dealing with the economic crisis is to face the problems and to respond to the challenges. Denying reality has not helped in any crisis. I therefore respectfully ask the Secretary of State who is in the interest of cosmeticizing domestic employment data. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-10-19-201	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2020-10-19-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Well, I can give you a concrete answer: obviously it's in no one's interest, so we agree on that to the maximum extent, especially in a difficult economic situation, and otherwise not from a basic point of view. Maybe what's causing the information disturbance is that there are at least three ways of calculating, and it doesn't matter which one we use. There is a KSH database mentioned or partly mentioned by you, which is also uniform in Europe. The content of this and how, obviously, is not sufficient time, but there are at least weird things in it. For example, a person who could get to work in, say, two weeks would be able to work. Let's face it, it's not an income, it's an intention, but that's how the KSH and the whole of Europe counts. There are also some oddities, such as the fact that if a person is doing two hours of activity in a relatively wider period of time, this system is already an employment relationship. There are question marks inside me, there are very serious question marks, but since Europe is using this method of calculation, we also have to adapt to this. That's why it's more specific, and it might be from my assignment, and it's my favorite, namely, the Employment Service data, which, on the other hand, are completely specific names, addresses, phone numbers, as in the classic joke. [[19.10]] So we know about everyone, although this is not funny at all, who became a registered job seeker, went to employment departments, district or district employment departments. The third database is the database of the NAV, from which you can again draw a conclusion on its content, but do not forget that you may be an entrepreneur with other job activities, so the picture is more nuanced here again. To be more precise, and it's the duration that was also a question for you, our latest data can produce a month's forecast. We're trying to break up with the information for three months, just in order to be specific. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anett Venue has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-10-19-204	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for giving me a professional answer to my question, but at the same time allow me to raise a question at this very short time that I am still concerned about, namely, 14.5 percent of our second quarter decline in GDP. This leads to the conclusion that a negative spiral has already started on both demand and supply sides. This can obviously also result from the contraction of the domestic labour market. This leads me to conclude, moreover, that domestic employment figures are unlikely to be real and that Eurostat data better cover reality. Let me add that in our country, unemployment benefits are unparalleled. I would like to tell you that even research institutions, which are the absolute believers of the free market, say that in such an otherwise unprecedented crisis, it is worth increasing the unemployment allowance, helping our countrymen who have remained unemployed, or that this negative spiral, which I am talking about in the rejoinder, is not undermining the entire national economy. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-19-205	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have the opportunity to respond back to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2020-10-19-206	Thank you very much for your concern, honourable Member. Well, we voted in favour of a work-based society, and our aim is to help with work-based or job-creating programmes. This has a visible result, as nearly 70,000 more people are working on the labour market now than in May. So I'm asking you to follow a little more intensively, perhaps, or we'll talk about this if there's a chance, even here, because it doesn't matter if we're looking at a three-month breakdown or a one-month breakdown. Think about it: March data or April data were relatively positive, even though the virus was already raging because it carried, say, January and February. So it's always a question of method calculation. Please, let's keep an eye on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-10-19-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work by negotiating proposals. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as possible, only the next speaker and the following two colleagues, our fellow Members, should be present in the Chamber. The debates can be followed by the internal television mediation system for everyone, and I will try to quickly describe the names of the next three fellow Members who have been asked to speak. Dear Parliament, The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, and the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic, of the other part, and the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, on the signing and provisional application of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, to the publication of a Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, of the other part, and the discussion of the draft amendment. The government referral is T/12880. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2020-10-19-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, as well as the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic, of the other part, and the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, on the signing and provisional application of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, of the other part, has been negotiated at its meeting on 15 October 2020. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 34 votes in favour, no votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement was signed in Brussels on 26 February 1996 and entered into force on 1 March 2000. In the two decades that we have left behind, it has become clear that cooperation goes far beyond the political and commercial areas covered by the agreement, and it is therefore necessary to amend them. It is a remarkable partner for the European Union due to the western attachment, economic weight and geopolitical role of the Kingdom of Morocco and its relations in the North African region. The further development of bilateral relations in a number of areas worthy of cooperation is a good opportunity to take joint action against global and regional challenges, as it demonstrates the political identity and value of the parties on a number of international issues. Morocco has progressed enormously in recent years as a gateway to Africa. The focus of its economic development is on green transformation. Green energy development and the creation of sustainable agriculture are state strategic priorities. The region has potential for innovative solutions, companies and technologies in Hungary, as well as the demand for Hungarian knowledge transfer. The agreement also establishes cooperation on illegal migration, money laundering, drug trafficking, the fight against organised crime and extends it to communication, audiovisual and cultural areas. It is important to note that the agreement is in line with the EU's political interests in all respects, as it has significantly increased the EU's role in the North African region and also provides for cooperation on respect for democratic principles. Dear House, The purpose of this publishing act is to publish the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, and the two Protocols to the Agreement as a result of the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and 2007. In view of what has been said, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, as rapporteur, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have a time frame of 15 minutes to join later in the debate and to close. [[19.20]] Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-10-19-210	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There have been a lot of goals in the general introduction that we can basically agree with. This agreement, even if it can be considered as technical, is, in fact, dealing with the establishment of a free trade area. And I would like to make it very clear here very briefly that the LMP principle rejects free trade zones, free trade agreements. We believe that they are a violation of national self-determination, and therefore we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-10-19-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if one of the factions would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2020-10-19-212	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As my excellent fellow Member said on behalf of the Legislative Committee, it is a very important agreement, and this agreement also serves to deepen bilateral political and economic and cultural relations between the European Union and Morocco. In any case, I find it odd that the European Union, which is always an undivided example of popularity and follow among the left-wing parties here, is now being rejected. I find this regrettable, because we are talking about cooperation in areas such as illegal migration, money laundering, drug trafficking, organised crime, corruption, which are all important areas of political, cultural and economic relations. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-19-213	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal to improve the protection of victims of violent crime against a serious person who has been harmed by relatives will follow. The government referral is T/10953. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Congressman, please.
u2020-10-19-214	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 15 October 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws T/10953. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 25 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The amendments proposed by the House's table introduce criminal law solutions which, in themselves, are complex, but which, taking into account the principle of graduality, exclude the emergence of emergencies by a proportionate response depending on the degree of risk. The guidelines of the proposed amendments lead to the exclusion of the possibility of granting conditional leave from the most serious term of imprisonment, which violates human life or physical integrity, as well as from violent crimes against a person of significant material gravity committed to the harm of the relative. Under the proposal, the legislator expects a two-stage regulation, since in the case of the most serious crimes involving the deliberate killing of another person, no special circumstances of appreciation can lift this absolute ban on exclusion. However, in addition to this, the perpetrators of serious violent crimes against a person under threat of imprisonment of at least eight years due to a similarly high degree of danger to society should be subject to the principle of non-conditional release. However, it should be stressed that it is also appropriate to provide for the possibility of assessing individual circumstances in order to avoid unfair situations. Following an assessment of the circumstances of the crime and the risk inherent in the person of the perpetrator, the Btk. 38. A court may, in exceptional circumstances and subject to strict criteria, waive the principle of a relative exclusion from the law against a perpetrator of a serious criminal offence against a person who carries out, or is a party to, an act of absolute exclusion as defined in point (e) of paragraph 4 of this Article, and against a serious criminal offence against a person who is at risk of imprisonment for at least eight years. However, it is only possible to do so, and only if the purpose of punishment can be achieved in accordance with the imposition of protective supervision and a separate code of conduct and the conduct of the sentenced person must be verified by technical means. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law expands the scope of cases where the Public Prosecutor's Office is under the Health Act 200. The Commission is obliged to initiate the compulsory psychiatric treatment provided for in Section 2 of this Annex. It should also be pointed out that the norm extends the concept of a relative to the parent of the perpetrator's child, the ex-wife, the ex-partner, the caretaker, the guardian, the guardian and the guardians. In order to ensure the integrity of the victim's privacy, the proposal extends the subject group for whom protection can be ordered as a separate code of conduct. Furthermore, it shall be noted that the actual residence of the person concerned by the removal may be protected, irrespective of his or her legal fate, ownership or permanent or temporary nature, in order to ensure that the victim's rest is adequately ensured. Thus, it will also be possible to keep away from the person under protection for children's welfare, children's protection facilities and victim support homes for shelter and housing. It cannot be ignored, of course, if a person's imprisonment for committing the above-mentioned type of crime is suspended. In such cases, it may be unnecessary and disproportionate to introduce restrictions that do not allow exceptions, such as restraining them in justified cases. However, in order to ensure greater protection for victims, it is necessary to provide that otherwise the person entitled to contact the child of the minor may only be in contact with the child of the minor if this is done in the context of supervised contacts. The exclusions against the juvenile offender concerning conditional release will only be applicable if he is 16 years of age and he or she is sentenced to imprisonment of 10 years or more. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Crimes against an abnormally serious life, and other crimes seriously harming or threatening life and physical integrity, are cruel and terrible tragedies for which the legislator is obliged to examine how the causes of the tragedy can be prevented and ruled out. The bill before us meets this objective, which is why it can be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-19-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate... [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Deputy Minister that, at a later stage of the debate and the closing hours, a total of 15 minutes is available. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2020-10-19-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, We have had a rather serious debate on this legislative amendment proposal. We have said that it is necessary to take action on the part of the government if we are talking about domestic violence, but it is not enough. We've given you our reviews. The opposition representatives have said what is missing from the system; and perhaps the government has been critical of the fact that the government should not always react in one case, but should examine this serious problem more complexly; and this law does not fundamentally solve what it has been prepared for. [[19.30]] But the only reason I asked Mr President to speak to you is because my fellow Member, Gyula Budai, said that the opposition representatives... because we know that we voted with abstentions, but tomorrow at the law, I would like to reassure you that we will vote in favour of the Hungarian Socialist Party because we consider the amendments necessary, but we will continue to maintain our criticisms, and I hope that we will not be right, as we said in the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-19-217	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-218	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports this bill, and we did not hide it when the general debate took place here. In this regard, we stressed, and we also said that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been fighting here in Parliament since its entry into Parliament, outside of it, to put domestic violence in the background as much as possible, and to tighten up the criminal code in such a way as to increase its deterrent power. In this connection, we have also expressed our criticisms that, in the past ten years, in relation to domestic violence, there has been little that the government has put on the table, on the table of the Parliament, and it is obviously not certain that these measures, which have failed, would have prevented the dual child murder in Győr that triggered this bill, but if we had prevented any crime, I think that the Parliament would do the right thing if we had done them. One of the cornerstones of this bill is the issue of the institution of conditional release, the tightening up of this. It's also Btk. It came up with an amendment in 2012, since in 2012 the Criminal Code changed in such a way that the possibility of conditional release was liberalised in some respects and made easier. This has become about 90 percent easier, and it has meant 10 percent tightening compared to the previous system, which we obviously disagreed with at the time. Why we disagreed or disagree with the liberalisation of conditional leave, we have brought statistical data that I have already mentioned here in the previous debate, which shows that by far more than 50 percent of those who have been granted conditional leave have fallen back by far more than 50 percent within a very short period of time. What would be the purpose of parole? Obviously, his aim is to lead the convict back to society as soon as possible, to make it easier to reintegrate into society, to give him a purpose during the prison years, so that he can have better behaviour, so that he can see that if he has a legal attitude in the penitentiary, he will be released sooner. So there's a goal, there's a reward for which he has to put something on the table, he has to fight, and it's usually good for those working in prison, and it's good for everyone, in case this thing works out, and in fact, these criminals would be useful members of society later on, and it wouldn't be a problem to deal with them as falling back. So the statistics have clearly demonstrated that there is a need for tightening up, and that is why we are pleased that this tightening has been included in certain areas. It is clear that whoever carries out the most serious crime and takes the life of a fellow human being has no place for conditional leave, not even the possibility of doing so. We also agree with the tightening of terms and conditions in any way, as it has also been proven in the context of past sad events that there is a need for a more thorough examination of the subject's admission to society with conditional freedom. So we need to look at them more carefully, we need to look at them in a lot more ways, not just their behavior or their pre-crime lifestyle, but we need a psychic examination or a psychiatric examination to make them fit, to expect him to return to the path of crime. Therefore, this more thorough examination is in some cases absolutely necessary and should be supported. In the same way, it is also important to support the provision of technical tools for offenders who are granted conditional leave, as this will increase the deterrent force from criminal offences, and this will certainly benefit society in any way. I would like to draw attention to one or two other things, namely the need to draft legislation much more widely in order to protect society in other areas as well. For example, lex Kaleta. The Kaleta case has highlighted that there are problems with paedophiles, and Jobbik has already made a proposal here, which, in my opinion, would be considered when publishing persons who have committed such crimes. If this were to be viewed to anyone, it would obviously be easier for parents to prevent children from getting involved in such company. Or even in the case of sexual crimes, what we have often called attention to is that we can achieve results on the basis of certain medications or medications that will minimize the risk of repeating crimes to the very least of those who are on the loose. This is also clearly demonstrated by foreign examples that when there is 40 percent crime, the possibility of repeated crime in the area of sexual crime, for those who are being treated with this medication, it is further reduced to a total of 3 percent, i.e. the risk of repeated crime is reduced by more than 90 percent. Therefore, these would also be considered. Otherwise, the amendments in this bill are not significant, obviously they do not affect the essential elements of the bill in any form, mainly technical amendments, but the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that, in most cases, we have succeeded in continuing the correct professional tone that we have seen in the general debate on this important issue. I think we're the government who doesn't run away from Btk tightening up penalties, who has taken a number of measures to protect victims of contact violence, to prevent victims of victim abuse. This year, too, the Ministry of Justice announced the year of victim support; I think that our joint task, our common goal, is to ensure that as few such crimes as possible can be carried out in Hungary. I see that last year the number of registered crimes and crimes committed was below 200,000 compared to the crime over 400 thousand registered in 2010. It's a good direction, and that's the direction we need to go. I am pleased that this very important law will also receive broad support here on both sides of the parliamentary horseshoe. I think that we will be able to work together in this direction, so that protection of victims and prevention are the most important aspects, while we are trying to deter perpetrators with a strict criminal policy. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the context of this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go. [[19.40]]
u2020-10-19-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for the professional attitude that we have been able to give during the debate. It is indeed an area of paramount importance, and Parliament's parties have been able to grow up here to talk about what is the subject of the proposal, thank you once again. For the sake of the minutes, I would like to correct two figures here, as my fellow Member, Mr Gyure said. On the one hand, there is no statistical data on conditional release to support this 50-percent data because there are no such statements, and for sexual crimes, the 40-percent decline rate is not real. In closing, I would like to thank everyone once again for their support, and I would very much like to ask that you support the proposal tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, A consolidated debate on the proposal for transitional measures to stabilise the situation of certain priority social groups and businesses with financial difficulties follows. Government referral T/13295. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that a total of 15 minutes for the opening speech and closing speech, 5 minutes for the speakers of the Legislative Committee, 10 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, and 2 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members are available. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Before you begin your speech, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that there is a total time frame of 15 minutes for the opening speech and the possible closing phrase and for speaking in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-19-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The corona virus pandemic has also put heavy burdens on Hungarian households and businesses: some people have lost their jobs, their incomes have decreased, income has decreased significantly in certain sectors, such as tourism, and it is therefore of paramount importance in these times to protect the standard of living and social security of families. In order to mitigate the effects of the epidemic, the Government introduced, as an immediate measure, a moratorium on payments already made. The payment delay introduced, compared with other international practices, is exceptional from the point of view of its automatic entry into force, until the end of this year, and covers almost all the loans of the population and corporate clients. The moratorium has been of great help to us so far, 59 percent of the households concerned have taken advantage of the possibility to suspend repayment, 1.6 million of the 2.7 million retail clients will benefit. The percentage of those who are eligible is even higher than the company's customers, with 60,000 out of 96,000 eligible businesses choosing the moratorium. This year, the measure will save some HUF 2000 billion for households and businesses. However, the economic and financial impact of the pandemic is prolonged, and some social groups may need additional assistance after 31 December. The Government decided to extend the moratorium to vulnerable social groups at the end of the year by six months until 30 June 2021. Families with children, pensioners, unemployed and public workers can take advantage of the extension of the moratorium and businesses that face financial difficulties. The new measure will continue to help a wide range of society. It is estimated that the residential moratorium can affect nearly half of the participants so far, more than 750 thousand people. The largest group of people who use the moratorium are families with children, with an estimated figure of over half a million. This is followed by 160,000 pensioners' loans, 64 thousand jobseekers' loans, and about 16 thousand public workers among those using the moratorium. In the case of enterprises, a separate government regulation will determine the number or indicators that will allow the moratorium to be extended. The undertakings concerned should apply for further use of the moratorium, including the data on the basis of which they qualify as firms in difficulty. In view of the delay in payment, debtors should still not be put at a disadvantage. The bill states that interest may not be charged on deferred debt, that a uniform distribution of payment charges should be ensured by extending the maturity. Thanks to the extension, you can stay 400-450 billion HUF in families and businesses next year. The government also decided not to terminate credit contracts for corporate and retail debtors until 30 June 2021. The moratorium on termination will help those who face payment problems, but cannot live with the moratorium on repayment. In their case, it will be six months to agree with the creditor to reschedule the repayment of the loan. Finally, it should be pointed out that those who are entitled, but are able to repay, can continue to fulfil their payment obligations, but if in the meantime they are faced with a payment problem, they can enter the moratorium again. I trust that the measures proposed by the Government will be supported by all in the interests of debtors in difficulty. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has 11 minutes to speak at a further stage of the debate and to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 19 October 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13295. Bill No. 1. The summary report was adopted unanimously by 32 votes in favour on the basis of a derogation from the house rule. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure that certain issues covered by emergency legislation, in particular Article L of the Fundamental Law and Article XIX of the basic law, are covered by emergency legislation. In order to safeguard the social security of certain priority social groups and to ensure the stability of the situation of undertakings in financial difficulties, the Hungarian Parliament should continue to maintain, where appropriate, the protection provided by the Act on transitional rules and epidemiological preparedness relating to the cessation of an emergency. It is essential to point out that the other priority objective of the draft law is to ensure that each priority social group, such as pensioners, parents raising children, jobseekers and public employees, will continue to be subject to any credit, interest and payment moratorium arising from different credit and loan agreements or financial leasing contracts. The proposal therefore provides for a temporary payment extension until 30 June 2021. The debtor is entitled to use the moratorium at any time during the period of the payment moratorium. In addition, the bill provides the debtor with the possibility of fulfilling the original contractual terms. Dear House, Combating the negative economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic is in the common interest of all of us, and it is therefore essential that we come to a common denominator on the issue which is also detailed in the proposal. The moratorium on loan repayment has provided and provides assistance to many Hungarians. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have the Member's speeches. I would like to inform you that the factions have 10 to 10 minutes, and the independent representatives have a total of 2 minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor F Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go. [[19.50]]
u2020-10-19-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13295 on transitional measures to stabilise the situation of certain priority social groups and firms in financial difficulties We've got a paper bill ahead of us. The speakers before me have already highlighted the importance of this bill, looking back at the fact that, in the winter of this year, in the early spring of this year, the world had never seen a blow, and Hungary has also suffered an unprecedented blow. A health epidemic and subsequent economic situation have shattered national economies, shaken businesses and, in particular, shaken the financial situation of families in national economies. [[Resume in 156/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, 19 October 2020 Monday 156/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Governments had to develop two kinds of decisions and two types of defence. One is the response to the health crisis and the other is the recovery of the economic situation. The operational tribe has also taken economic decisions that have sought to preserve economic growth since 2010, the accumulation, the modest but secure economic growth that the government has been able to deliver. The 2008 economic crisis gave me an experience. The then government, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, collapsed under the pressure of the economic crisis, needed IMF credit and abandoned businesses, families, could not pay private loans, could not pay corporate loans. Therefore, the government decided to introduce a moratorium on the repayment of loans under which private individuals and businesses were suspended from the obligation to pay capital and interest on loans concluded until 17 March 2020, as part of which short-term business loans were extended. The moratorium aims to provide for a temporary period of payment for individuals, businesses. The bill that has just been submitted will give priority social groups and firms with difficulties an additional half-year's time to pay off. Priority social groups for the population have been defined: the circle of families with children, pensioners, unemployed and public workers. The main objective is to protect jobs and the standard of living of families during the epidemic, to which an extension of the moratorium is a major contribution. It is important to note that the introduction of a moratorium on loan repayment is a success, as the figures show that it has helped over 1.6 million families, 60,000 businesses. This means that until December, HUF 2000 billion will remain in families and businesses. Dear Parliament, I think that the extension of the loan repayment moratorium is a continuation and continuation of the good decision made by the government at the beginning of this year. I would also ask this House, the opposition representatives, to support the government's position on this consensual issue, not as when the Crown Virus Act was adopted, when the opposition did not vote for this law. I call for these positive measures to help priority social groups, families, pensioners, public workers and businesses in difficulty to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-230	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Members and competent experts have introduced very nice words to the partial emphasis on the intention of partially extending the loan repayment moratorium, but they have not talked about why this proposal is so cautious, wobbly, why it narrows it down so much [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] Don't look so strange, my fellow Member, don't act, you know what this is all about for those who can take advantage of this opportunity. After all, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Member has not mentioned how many people have been able to use the possibility of a moratorium on repayment of credit so far, and why only a fraction of the number can take advantage of the same possibility. We remember that on the third day after the emergency was ordered, Jobbik came up with the proposal that a moratorium on credit should be applied, but without hidden nuclear bombs, without interest rates and without ticking hours, and then other opposition parties came up with the same idea, and in the spirit of fairness, let us state that the opposition parties were essentially saying the same thing in this area: help should be given to people while the debts involved should not continue to accumulate. Unfortunately, you have not succeeded in creating such a solution, but let us not argue, I think it is good that, although late, you have put down the original concept of a mortgage moratorium. I'm not sure Prime Minister is aware of the details of this, because he said something today that doesn't necessarily meet reality, because he said that interest rates didn't tick during this period. Indeed, the legislator or Fidesz-KDNP did not solve this by writing exactly the interest rates, but by extending the term by the exact amount of time that can be collected on people. [[Turning to pro-government representatives:]] Don't lift your eyebrows, because you know very well what this is about, at least now let's play honestly with each other. The fact is that, by extending the term, they have hidden hidden costs into this system, which will add unnecessary, unexpected costs to people who are already bleeding out and caressing the banking system, which, if there were a system in Hungary that would not be in need, would certainly not be. And in the meantime, Prime Minister pointed out today that we are taxing the banks and imposing a special tax on them. And the problem is, that's not true either. You may be able to present 50 billion forints of alleged special taxes at the word level, but what did you put in the fine print? [[Pointing to pro-government representatives:]] You, you, you, you and you? It means that within five years, the banks concerned will be able to write this alleged special tax off of their tax until the last forint. So they pay the parties. Let's get to it. Local governments pay too much, I think. They pay some of the multis, small change, very, very little. There's only one of them that doesn't pay, and these are the banks. The only thing the banks don't pay for in the epidemiological defense register is the banker's government, which is why we called you the banker's government, because there is no government in Central Europe that has ever shown such a problem before the financial system. At the moment that a contract concluded with the EBRD and rightly mentioned today by my fellow Member can be found on your website in English, but perhaps they are hiding it in Hungarian, then we will have something to discuss. Then this banker's government may be a myth, but in that paper, you have agreed not to charge the banks with a penny, and the injured will not be saved. And that is why I say that I reassure my fellow Member, that I and the group behind me will support this partial extension, and we will fully support it, but we will ask the questions that men dare to answer. If more than a million people have been affected by this thing, how will the more than a million become a few hundred thousand now? How are you trying to succeed by saying that there are significantly fewer people receiving this security shield once again, with ticking costs than there have been before? If one of you stands up and tells us to understand that the deficit is a thousand billion-dollar magnitude, there is no source of funding for this, then I will say that this is an honest, masculine stand, and we will argue about what transfers I think can be made to ensure this opportunity; why do you think those transfers cannot be kept; and then a constructive, productive discourse would develop. I'm open to that. I am not open to the fact that, with the usual production reporting success propaganda, this is a great victory, while we are living in a fraction of the number of people we have so far, and it hurts me precisely from a demographic point of view, because again they forget only those who do not have children yet, but who want children. They are excluded from numerous preferential options, whether it be the announcements of renovations, where even your own Secretary of State didn't know the rules of detail, but you have already announced and the public TV has been toured with it. At the same time, all we know is that childless people are left out of this opportunity while they may have demographic goals, and we should all support this together. And here I see, too, that I have a vote in favour of children and pensioners, which is extremely important, and a priority that I think we all recognise. I don't think there's a debate in this House. What I don't understand is why, compared to the original proposal, they're putting in such a braked foam. [[20.00]] Why are social groups narrowed down to those who can use it? Why can't they honestly stand up to the fact that the number of people x can only use this? Why can't you honestly tell me that the state of public finances is such that these resources are missing? And why don't we discuss honestly how these resources could be increased after all? I think that would be the basis for an honest, clean discussion. As long as we don't have this, we'll, of course, tell you that our support is there unless you put in a nuclear bomb that we don't see right now. But in order to raise a success propaganda and a victory report, this will go on public television, I am sure that about two million people will accept this without criticism, that this government, which is in production reports, will achieve huge success, but will not meet reality, because hundreds of thousands of our countrymen, who have been able to get their credit repayments under a moratorium, will no longer be able to do so. And they will not only vote for you once and hopefully not for you, but they will also meet the Hungarian reality. They, too, deserve the help that this government does not necessarily want to provide them with the same power as before. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-231	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We can see that the economic downturn and difficulties arising as a result of the coronal virus epidemic that occurred in Hungary in March were expected at the time of the first wave, and we can also see from the second quarter figures how the Hungarian economy suffered despite previous good performance. We also see that the situation of the Hungarian economy was, at the same time, a much stronger, much better position of the Hungarian economy before the epidemic, because the 5 percent economic growth was the level that Hungarian people, Hungarian entrepreneurs and employees could bring. We have seen that every year, we have made record records of exports, investments coming here, and I think it is important that we have come to this crisis at a moment like this, because it does not matter that a country's economy is bled, robbed or in the prime of its power during a crisis. In any case, the Hungarian Government has taken countless measures in relation to the purchase of health protective equipment, the introduction of restrictive protective measures related to protection and the rescue of the Hungarian economy and the preservation of jobs at the time of the first wave. After all, we can remember that the introduction of the credit moratorium at that time was not necessary for the approval of Parliament because of the emergency, because of an extraordinary legal order, but when the emergency ended in June, which, in your opinion, was never going to stop, but what ceased in June, we were also able to accept the credit moratorium until 31 December. We have also seen that the government has spent more than 9000 billion forints on the protection of the Hungarian economy at three paces, and we also see that, thanks to the various forms of economic protection measures, more than half a million jobs in danger have been saved. And we have also seen 4 million 458 thousand people working in January, and the numbers at the end of August have already talked about 4 million 500 thousand people, so I think it is very, very good news because, as Prime Minister said, if there is work, everything is that we have managed to bring unemployment and employment data back to the pre-poverty level. As opposed to the left, there is a very, very important and major difference in crisis management that we are not making cuts in times of crisis, but that we are taking significant family, pension protection and economic protection measures and we are trying to encourage investment, thereby protecting jobs and creating jobs. An important part of this is that, at the beginning of next year, the 13th month's pension will be rebuilt, as one of the biggest help for most Hungarian people and businesses was the introduction of a credit moratorium, perhaps unique in the world, in March, which was already referred to by the Secretary of State in his expozee. This measure left HUF 2000 billion in resources for Hungarian families and businesses this year. I think it is very important that anyone who felt threatened by his workplace, who might have had a salary reduction by his employer, who had lost his job, was not thus at the mercy of his repayments, interest rates, and his bank. And this help, which affected very, very wide layers, was able to help immediately, from the very first moment, since the loans concluded before 18 March were covered by this help and this moratorium, including baby showers and student loans. It is very important that this circle was also supported by this credit moratorium. With the current bill, the credit moratorium will be extended to include certain priority groups, or, if you like, vulnerable social groups, by June 30, 2021, with an additional six-month extension of this bill. I am pleased that there have been basically supportive contributions so far, and both the four fifth vote this morning and the TAB vote show that there is consensus here in Parliament, that it is important to extend the credit moratorium for another six months. I think that it is no coincidence that the list of priority social groups was a good shot by the government of these groups, which are more vulnerable groups: those who are raising children, those who are unemployed. Otherwise, I would also like to draw the attention of Dániel Z. Carpát to the fact that those who are expecting the child are also involved in these priority social groups. In accordance with previous practice, pensioners and public workers can use the credit moratorium for the first half of 2021. And in the case of companies in financial difficulties, companies will have to initiate an extension of the credit moratorium, since the social groups listed above automatically require an extension of the credit moratorium. However, these companies should indicate and initiate an extension of the credit moratorium. It will be important that the regulation that this bill sets out as a task for the government and the Ministry of Finance to establish the exact indicator that an undertaking will be considered a company in financial difficulty if it is to be considered a company in financial difficulty. Therefore, the extension of the credit moratorium applies to the same loans concluded until 18 March 2020 as the current moratorium currently in force. It is very important that the debtor may decide, at any time during the first half of 2021, to exercise or not to avail himself of the moratorium. It is very important that if a person's livelihood, salary, job or business are threatened by the second wave, he may have suffered damage that may have caused him to pay his repayment so far, but he does not know that the debtor can at any time decide to ask him to take advantage of the credit moratorium. According to calculations, a significant proportion of credit contracts that have so far been entitled to a moratorium will be entitled to extend the moratorium, with an additional HUF 450 billion being left by the government to the people in this six-month period. These are the preliminary calculations. In one year, the amount that the first phase of the credit moratorium left for Hungarian families and businesses was HUF 2000 billion, in the second round it will be HUF 450 billion. I think that this is a huge help for Hungarian families, pensioners, public workers, unemployed and troubled Hungarian businesses. I would just like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, that children's allowances are for children. I think that's pretty clear from his name, too. For those who have children, or who have children, for example, the baby shower, who want to have children, can also benefit, but, of course, children's benefits are due to those who have children. We have introduced these measures, and we are constantly expanding family support so that the people... the children you want can be born, and by the way, the children you're aiming for, the ones you're waiting for, their future parents, can arrive in an environment where the government provides a very wide and high-value family support system. From home creation, I could list these benefits through tax incentives, which is not now the subject of the current bill. I think that this nearly HUF 450 billion, which will help Hungarian families and businesses in distress in the next six months, is a great help. I ask my fellow Members to adopt this bill together, unanimously, in any case the KDNP faction supports it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-19-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go. [[20.10]]
u2020-10-19-234	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have the bill on a moratorium on credit repayment before us, and yes, this bill and its adoption will be supported by the May Other Politics. However, I think that they do not think that because it is a good law, but because it is still more than nothing. We really are in a position in Parliament not to let go of such small opportunities. But let's take a look. It is the law that sensitive, vulnerable social groups are allowed by the government to virtually suspend their loan repayments. But somehow, the fact that banks are responsible for the disease management comes to our attention immediately. That's out of the question. Because indeed, as my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, said, banks pay bank taxes, but they can write this down in the coming years, so, after all, the balance of this deposit obligation will be virtually zero, and I think that, now, this is not a responsibility, nor a participation in the sharing of burdens. Let us be honest with you that this law has indeed been incredibly hard on the social groups it has named as beneficiaries. Where is one of the social groups whose income has fallen over the past period or will decrease in the coming period? We know precisely that today in Hungary, in the economic situation in which we are forced to live, move and farm, a great many businesses have been forced to reduce the salary of their employees, and very many workers have been forced to accept this reduced wage as a new offer. Let us think, fellow Members, that if someone took a loan at the end of last year, that is, before the outbreak, he could expect that he or the family had a certain amount of income, compared to that. I have several examples of my constituency, and my constituency is not known for being a backward area, and I can give you millions of examples where this decline in income or income actually exceeded 30 per cent or 50 per cent, as the case may be. Why aren't they in the vulnerable groups? Think about it: if the family made HUF 500 000 net, father, mother took a loan, and now they don't earn more than HUF 280 thousand this is a concrete example, then how difficult it is for them to repay the loan. We know for a fact that this is a major problem. If we continue on the same line of thought, we can see precisely that the number of beneficiaries who were forced to take unpaid leave has been missed. I remember it being said here in this House by a member of the government that he should try to negotiate with the employer for an employee. And a lot of the agreements ended by sending the employee on unpaid leave. He does not count as unemployed, he does not receive unemployment benefits, and where appropriate, especially when it comes to our younger compatriots, he can easily fall out of all the beneficiaries, even though I think that they are in as much trouble as those who are correctly named by the law as beneficiaries. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán arrives in the room.]] I think that, yes, when we talk about banks, it is worth thinking about, because it is no accident that the EBRD pact has been discussed several times today, because the fact that banks do not have to take their share of the cost of protection is a sensible way to go back to the EBRD pact. Meanwhile, Mr. Secretary of State has arrived... [[László Varju: Deputy Minister! Dr. Balázs Orbán: I haven't even sat down yet...]] Excuse me, Deputy Minister, the mask. But I think that he is aware that the bank tax paid by the banks can be written down in four years. So the balance of this deposit is zero. At the same time, the May Other Politics presented a bill in January on the reduction of banking burdens, and if we look at this proposal, it will be revealed that the profitability of the Hungarian banking system is double as much as that of Poland, which unfortunately is economically ahead of us; not slightly larger, but double. So in Hungary, the bank's profit margin per capita is about twice as high as the profit they can make in Poland. The Hungarian Government did not think that a proposal should be supported, for example, on the abolition of the credit transfer fee. But really, when you think about it, this fee is completely unjustified for the borrowers of the loan. Abolition of early repayment fees, which is once again a completely unjustified step. So I'm gonna make a loan agreement with a financial institution, and if it's my talent or good luck that I can pay off my debt earlier, it's gonna cost me extra. It is an unfair fee that serves the banks in an indecent way, but the government did not think that by abolishing such and similar charges they could support the Hungarian population and did not think that, for example, the profits of the banks could be reduced. So, to sum up, I think that this is the minimum necessary, thank you very much on behalf of those who have access to this opportunity, and that would be my request to the honourable government and to the representatives of the government to consider the possibility of broadening the range of stakeholders or participants significantly, because even though it is a small help, it could be enough to survive. Let's not forget the fact that the unpaid instalment that has to be paid after the moratorium expires... will be added to the fees that will be paid by the debtor practically late after the moratorium. I think that this is a Eligible bill, but much less than our fellow countrymen could expect from the Hungarian government. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We will begin to negotiate a law that is practically rips-rops, very in a hurry, in which, in many respects, the economic situation that has arisen as a result of the situation and the behaviour of the government so far also justifies the need to try to help with transitional measures to stabilise the situation of certain priority social groups and businesses in financial difficulties, as set out in the title of the Act. But the fact is that everything that has been said so far shows that the government and the representatives in support of the government do not realize that they are immediately conflicting. I would like to point out this in two respects and then express my opinion. [[20.20]] The first is how many and who can participate as a result of the law or under the law who can enter into the possibility that the moratorium may be extended or continued. My fellow Member has already pointed out here that, yes, we are proud that you are providing citizens with an opportunity of HUF 450 billion, while there was, in the past, HUF 2000 billion in this area. It is clear from this that far fewer people have the opportunity to do so than they were. In English, who will have the opportunity to do so now, the number of them is much less. But it doesn't just depend on what we think or assume about it, because based on the number of eligible residential loans, according to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's statement, 31 percent of it can make use of this moratoriumal move, or, in the case of companies, 16 percent will be able to make use of it by number; or we can safely say by reference to press information, and your favourite newspaper, Magyar Nemzet, has also written that 28 percent of credit contracts, according to the amount of debt, 26 percent can use the moratorium on the basis of this proposal. So your claim that everything here is all right is far from so. The second statement that has been made in this debate is that the government has left me with its citizens, as you have just said. Ladies and gentlemen, They didn't leave anything with the citizens, because they also have to pay for the loan at the end, only with the increased value of this, because they use a service. And don't make a mistake, if, for example, someone uses the possibility of a house loan for a HUF 7 million since March and, by the way, until the middle of next year, the moratorium for the entire period of 14 months, otherwise his term will increase by 23 months in order to pay all the costs of the service they use. The only thing I'm asking is that you don't pretend that you left anything with the citizens, because, let alone being left behind, you're going to have to pay them separately. By the way, if someone is using a service, it may have to be done in this form, but that you would have done anything for the citizens, so don't say so. In addition, they also create a significant uncertainty about businesses that, after the adoption of the law, there will be a government decree that will tell us who is entitled to do so and who will be able to use it. By the way, based on your calculation, there will be no more than 16 percent. So you're welcome to let me know because you don't want to talk about what's going to happen to the 80 percent you, by the way, leave me on the side of the road. They know that they do not have the opportunity to generate revenue, and in the meantime, despite all the EU's options, you ignore State aid and do not help people, help businesses, and prefer less. For this reason, the Democratic Coalition faction has also tabled an amendment to this law that the range of stakeholders needs to be significantly increased and broadened. Don't say, don't say, I don't want to judge what you're saying, that you're helping everyone, that's not true, and a significant part of those who need it will not be helped. The rescued, by the way, would need immediate help, so I could save them, and then they could talk like that. You don't do that. Those who are being destroyed by this epidemic need immediate help. It's no coincidence that we made a proposal from the point of view of pensioners in order to save people, but you also swept it off the table. Therefore, seeing that 80 percent is abandoned, and there are those who are trying to help, we certainly do not want to prevent this, we say yes to the law of the moratorium on credit, but what is unacceptable is that, in the meantime, you are pretending to help everyone, while this is not the case. From what I see, the helplessness that started in the spring continues, neither in time nor in the step that is needed, you cannot escape. Even though my fellow Member claims that they are taking unprecedented steps, there is a situation that has never been seen! And by the way, I suggest that you don't do that, it doesn't make any sense. [[Nacsa Lawrence laughs.]] 'Cause you guys should be more concerned with crisis management. But if that doesn't work for you, another government will help you. But after the change, there will really be a way to help the people who survive this, because you can't give us any real help. So in conclusion, I can tell you that we support the adoption of the law, but it is not enough for you to believe that you really want to help. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-19-237	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group.
u2020-10-19-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There could have been another way in which this debate could have taken place. And the truth is, when you listen to those self-praising fanfares that we've given a lot of criticism of in the spring about delays in the introduction of measures, you wouldn't repeat those criticisms if you didn't listen to those self-glorifying fanfares you hear. I'll tell you in advance, the Socialist Party Group will support this proposal, but of course we have an opinion. Recall that when the big economic rescue package was announced: the Prime Minister stood there and said that on 6 April this large economic rescue package would certainly be introduced; it was about HUF 10 000 billion. We have seen what has become of it: the 10,000 billion is already for three years, Viktor Orbán pushed this whole thing away, and then his ministers too, and we have only been able to talk to a secretary of state about it once in a while. I'm most disturbed in the mortgage moratorium when you say we're leaving you with the people. That's not true. They're taking it later. It's good if they take it later because they can't pay for it now, but they'll take it from them later. It is also being collected from them because of what I have been able to argue with the Prime Minister here today, to say better, this was a one-sided conversation because he talked about something completely different, because they will collect it later, because you have concluded a pact with the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, in which it is written in black and white, it is also on the government's website, right, only in English, so that everyone cannot read that your government will not take any measures that negatively affect the profitability and profitability of banks in Hungary. And this clause and this pact, which you have made with the money world, as opposed to the interests of the Hungarian people, are infinitely servitude. That's why the banks will collect this money from people later. [[20.30]] Of course, everyone is concerned about the banking system, but for people and families, for the safety of families and for the financial security of families, we should be more concerned. They need your help. This help is temporary. We're going to support you, but you're going to admit that you're not leaving it with people, it's a temporary help. There won't be more than 16 percent of the companies, that's what you say. It'd be nice to have more. It would be nice if you could help us more. You know, this reminds me of the preferential end-payment, when the first step was to escape from the foreign exchange loan, then György Matolcsy was called by his Austrian colleague and began to worry about the Austrian banks operating in Hungary. At that time György Matolcsy, even as Minister of Economic Affairs, issued a statement that he had nothing to fear from the Austrian banks, and that it would not affect more than 10 percent or affect it: 170,000 out of 1 million 700 thousand contracts were able to make use of it. All I'm saying is that if you say that 16 percent will get this, then I'm sure only 16 percent will get it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: So we're telling the truth!]] You can also say that you are telling the truth. This can also be said to be disproportionately, unnecessarily narrowing down the range of people who can use it, and you already know who will benefit from it. What we would like in addition not to narrow down the range of preferences, do not know in advance how many people will be in a situation where they cannot recover from their own power, and we would also like families to be helped to really stop implementation. The fact that the eviction moratorium is now coming, as the Prime Minister said, that it is in every field, it is not in the government's favor and I don't know what it is, it's because there are no people being evicted during the heating season. That's the law. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who made this law?]] Thank God this hasn't been changed yet. But believe me, he's coming, I checked the calendar, next spring is coming, and if the bailiffs are working by then, the first day after the moratorium ends, the executioner is not at the door, but the new owner. Stop this! That's what I said today: stop him! Who asks for it, who demands it, who begs it, depending on the life situation and status it is in. Stop the executions! It is not expected, there is no economic forecast that it is expected that families will be in a better position in the spring than they are now. It's not expected that they'll make more money and pay more. Stop the executions! You don't have to pay the debt managers, and the bailiffs don't have to work right now. Don't auction the properties, even if you have to move out in the spring. We would like to add to this: do not be narrow-handed. Now we're going to have a very difficult time, exactly what you're talking about. When a difficult time comes, it must involve serious decisions and not narrower decisions. Of course, we will support this proposal, as we have supported the previous one. We are in favour of maintaining as much housing and financial security as possible for families. Unfortunately, this is temporary, but we hope that further proposals for solutions will be put on the table, and we will put them on the table. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-19-239	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Fidesz Group will hand over three minutes of the time frame available for the group in the debate to the KDNP Group. I would ask the staff of the technical box to modify the timeframes according to the announcement. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congressman Zoltán Varga, Democratic Coalition.
u2020-10-19-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, several of my fellow Members have responded to Mr Nacsa's comments from the opposition benches, and I would also like to respond to Mr Nacsa's comments; the ominous HUF 450 billion was left for the people. Otherwise, you're like a poor, weak Rodolfo impersonator. At least Rodolfo always told me to watch my hands because I'm cheating. You don't say that, but you cheat. They're taking advantage of people's trust, their vulnerable position that most of the people are drowning in the crisis, you're telling someone to throw a cool belt, but we're gonna ask them back otherwise, and we're gonna have to pay for it. What's really amazing about this is that they make all this production novels, propaganda. It is your government who has dealt with the crisis on the whole of the European Union on a giant poster level alone. He explained to people why otherwise it's good that they don't give. Everyone else has given tangible help to businesses, to people who have not worked. What was he doing here? He's got a giant poster that you guys gave me. It's just not enough at a given moment. Congressman! You should get on your own and tell the truth sometime. These people have to pay back the money you're about to say they left you with interest. They didn't leave anything! They left one hope, but hope can be drowned in the same way, it can die. This money must be returned, and it will be thanks to you. There will come a time when you will be asked to do so. Trust me, that's what's gonna be really embarrassing. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-19-241	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2020-10-19-242	Thank you very much. Mr President, Although László Varju specifically warned me not to play the Gyurcsányány, we are talking about the fact that the one million people who will be affected by the extension are many, few, medium numbers, and there are also legitimate debates about the social groups who have been left out, who have been properly involved. It's a debate. That is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, how there are such measures! Because what happened in 2008 and 2009? There were no such debates at the time, because there were no such measures. Because what was in 2008 and 2009? It was austerity. They were just hurting businesses and families. I made a list of what Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai did. The family tax relief has been lifted. We weren't arguing about how many people were getting, raising, reducing the amount, eliminating the family tax relief for one and two children. They've eliminated the home-building benefits. Once again, we are arguing not about how many people are affected by the credit moratorium, but about how many people have been eliminated. They have abolished favourable housing loans; they have made a withdrawal of 600 billion in health care, patient care; schools have been closed; a month's pension has been taken away; the real value of pensions has been drastically reduced in real terms by more than 10 percent. The gas prices were tripled and the food VAT doubled. The lower rate of personal income tax was increased from 18 to 19 per cent, i.e. by raising taxes; a general 3 per cent increase in VAT; an excise duty of 5 per cent and a 7 per cent increase in the retirement age. We are not talking about the extent to which, in the midst of a favourable economic crisis, the measures to help people are wide or what their budget should be, or what budgetary resources we are doing now, but rather about 12 percent unemployment, and with such continuous tax increases and restrictions, Hungarian families and businesses have been hit. There was no mention of a rescue package, and they ran to the IMF and the World Bank to tie it up, and they demanded the restrictions on you to turn the country on a ventilator from the economic crisis. This is the huge difference that you do not understand, that we are talking about and discussing in these legislative proposals how we can help Hungarian people as much as possible, Hungarian businesses in distress. You didn't talk about this at the time, but you talked about the burden, the face that we should put on Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. This is the speech by Congressman Varga, Congressman Varju or even Mr Cook, who is quite hypocritical and quite outrageous. You assisted them through the government, and the SDS left you when they were done. So measures were introduced that made the lives of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses much, much worse. We believe that it is not necessary to implement austerity in a crisis, but to provide help, to encourage investment and to protect and create jobs. You did not protect a piece of work in 2008-2009, but increased unemployment to 12 percent, while, of course, everyone in Hungary lived worse in those two years. Not your little elite, of course, but everyone else, because they raised taxes, raised VAT, raised burdens on businesses. [[20.40]] That was your crisis management. At the time, it wasn't a luxury to talk about exactly what groups a credit moratorium would touch. It is very right that there is also a credit moratorium this year, and we would like to extend it. I'm glad they're gonna vote for you. But stop the process of what kind of crisis management has been carried out, and what you are asking us to do when Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses have been constantly squeezed and crushed! Then the Hungarian people did not ask for any of that crisis management, and we do not want any of that crisis management either. This is exactly why we are constantly trying to help Hungarian businesses. There is an investment support programme for a reason, there is an investment incentive programme, there is job protection support for a reason, there is an economic protection action plan for a reason, because they help Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, and they do not harm them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, who asked for the floor in two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Speaking of which, it was a completely different type of crisis. But, of course, we can argue about what happened 10 to 12 years ago. I would also suggest to you that, in this situation, much higher than in Europe, the 27 percent VAT should not be raised. In your ten years, VAT is 27 percent. There was an 18 and 20 percent VAT when you talked about this 3-percent increase. You say it was 12 percent unemployment. It is truly very sad; it has taken a great deal of work to make it not so. Today 190,000 people do not receive any care in Hungary. 190,000 people are out of the system. Who takes care of them? We should also pay attention to these, my honourable fellow Member, and not only to blowing fanfares about huge successes! Of course the opposition would like to help more. Of course we want to keep the system that we have now. Why do we need to narrow down the range of recipients of the amortization moratorium? Of course, we want more people to survive this period as much as possible. Of course that's what we need. Then why are you narrowing it down now? Why are they giving us less than they could give us this year? And to explain everything by saying what was 12 years ago, especially with no memory of what was the base, where to come from... At that time there was between HUF 230 and 250 a euro, and now there were HUF 360, then there was a VAT rate of 18%, and now there is a VAT rate of 27 percent, but you have already left 200,000 people on the side of the road 10 years ago. Don't leave anymore, don't narrow it down. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-19-245	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-10-19-246	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Lawrence, this won't be enough. I fully agree with the criticism of the austerity measures listed, and I did not like much of the financial and economic management processes of the period before 2010. That's right. But after ten years, this will not excuse anything from the fact that a package of 1.6 million retail customers has been covered so far, and now it will apply to 752,000. That's the difference. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not like that!]] Shall I send you the link, Lawrence? It's from the Hungarian Nation, we believe it is, don't we? Isn't it? I don't have to send you a link, because I guess everyone's prepared for the debate. The fact is that instead of 1.6 million people, 752,000 will now be able to use it. I'm not mad at anyone about this, and I don't want to go to war with you, I really don't, but at least don't paint reality more beautiful than it is. My suggestion is that, since a large number of budgetary resources are not consumed by the usual structure of the credit repayment moratorium so far, do not narrow down the number of users. I understand that your strategic partners, the banks, have ordered this. I also see that, since this banking government made a deal with banks in February 2015, it has not taken a single step to damage the banks involved, who have recorded record profits over HUF 600 billion in the last financial period, maintaining one of Europe's most expensive banking systems. It is much cheaper to bank with low earners and average earners in Britain, because there is a real free account management opportunity, while there is no such in essence in Hungary. And this very, very expensive system is run by huge extra-profit banks who will now not pay a special tax on the basis of the disease control. In conclusion, we can say that there is a Canaan of banks and financial institutions in Hungary. I don't want to hurt them. I'm not saying you have to squeeze them extra. I, along with you, have been told that I believe in public cargo. I believe that if we burden local governments and parties, we should also burden multinationals and banks. I really don't want to hurt anyone, but if you are also debating the statistics of the Hungarian Nation, which I have just read to you, and once again, I would be very happy to send it to you, but the same statistics can be read on the financial pages, then there is a serious problem, as they deny their own reality and their reality. I don't think you're gonna argue with your own paper. The Magyar Nemzet was my favourite for decades; I still read it today, only with a slightly different feeling. But I have to say, if we cannot get to a common foundation in this Parliament to at least believe their own statistics and build solutions on this, then this country is going in the wrong direction. Of course, this narrowed-down model will help hundreds of thousands, if you take it as a matter of fact, although later they will have to pay for it with interest. But it is because they pay it with interest, my fellow Member, that all the costs that they now seem to receive as a discount, because it does not cost you money, it does not cost you the budget, so my request is to expand the range of opportunities at least as far as it has been available. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-19-247	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor F Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2020-10-19-248	[[No microphones.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that in this House the address is: my fellow Member. So don't make up nicknames for each other, because we're not at home, not at the club, not at the market.
u2020-10-19-249	Is your microphone on, Congressman? I have a feeling there isn't. [[F Sándor Kovács turns on his microphone.]] That's good.
u2020-10-19-250	Style is man. In Parliament, the address is: my fellow Member, Members. I do not want us to sink to a level where we call each other by their first names, nicknames or nicknames in Parliament. I think that his dignity should be given to this House, even if it is difficult for some people. The most shocking thing to me was that we received a lecture from our fellow DK and socialist Members. I remember that crisis management before 2010 and this one also speaks to DK, MSZP, left and attached parts of the crisis, when they said that this crisis would not even reach us. They didn't even know what it was about. Then when he came in, they ran to the IMF with their hands up. And if we are talking about a banking government, I remember the time when the bank, the IMF, ran this country, when the Prime Minister did not decide what to do in this country, but the government, the Prime Minister, was so vulnerable that the IMF's dictatorships had to be met. Well, that's when this country was a banker's government. I wish this never to come up again. By assisting two of my fellow Members, this banking government, who complied with the IMF's dictatorship, delivered this country to the IMF, the IMF and various international financial institutions. [[20.50]] Luckily, that's not the case. Fortunately, the base we're on is better because the economy looks better and we can help people better. Not by restrictions, not by withdrawal, not by leaving these people on the side of the road, but by extending the credit moratorium. I am glad that you support it, I am glad that you are happy and supportive of the government's actions, but I would also like it if you didn't think about what else should be given, but that we should talk about how the economy should go on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-251	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the LMP Group, in the one-minute time frame available.
u2020-10-19-252	Thank you very much. My fellow Member! I think that the performance of a government, or even the performance of the Orbán government, is perfectly described by the fact that in a debate, in the heat of the debate, you are still only able to point back 10 to 12 years earlier. I think that in itself tells us everything about your government performance, everything about the quality of your defense. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-10-19-253	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members that any group that may still have a time frame would like to take advantage of it. [[For signal:]] Unfortunately, Mr László Varju has already used up his time frame, the notary indicates that he is in minus 5 seconds, so unfortunately I cannot give you an opportunity. We adopted the agenda together, set the time frame together, and we have to stick to it. Dear Parliament, As no further speeches have been made, the consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Gábor Gion's mark:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. The Secretary of State has an 11-minute window. Take it easy, Secretary of State, we'll count the time, 12 seconds, please reset.
u2020-10-19-254	Thank you very much. I'm trying to be shorter than this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the current credit moratorium, as I mentioned, is unique. In international practice, where a credit moratorium was introduced, first of all, it was not a full credit moratorium, it was much more selective and it did not last for 9 months, but it was usually 3 months. In this respect, therefore, the credit moratorium currently in force is unique in that it is almost complete. We have received a number of questions when introducing the credit moratorium as to why it is not selective, why we do not look at who is in need, but I think that we have made the right decision to introduce a comprehensive credit moratorium, because we did not know what the impact of the epidemic would have on the economy, how the epidemic would develop. We now see it; we also see its impact on animals, its impact on the population. We see from the August figures that the number of workers has, by the way, increased compared to the January figures, that the number of people employed was already higher in August than in January; we also see that average wages have risen unbroken; and we see who are in financial difficulty, who are really in need of an extension of the moratorium, and these social groups, which are included in the bill, cover almost completely those persons, the families that face financial difficulties. There may be singles who may be struggling with financial difficulties, but I draw attention to the fact that this is not only a prolongation of a moratorium on credit payments, but also a moratorium on credit cancellations, so loans cannot be cancelled, and ergo implementation cannot be launched due to non-payment until 30 June of next year. Until then, those who are not entitled to a moratorium on credit but who are in financial difficulties have six months to restructure loans with the bank, the creditor. I would like to clarify that there is no interest rate and no additional costs, which is included in the bill. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: And the maturity extension?]] I don't know where 16 percent comes from anyway, we don't have that kind of stats. As regards the specific burden on banks, I would like to draw the attention of the representative ladies and gentlemen to the fact that there has been a special bank tax as a sector tax since 2011 [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So banks keep paying special taxes. Besides, it's not my place to protect them. I don't intend to. I think it is important to know these things, so the fact that certain social groups, if you like, are narrowed down, is, in fact, covering the social groups where there is a real need for a moratorium extension. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-255	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the proposal to lay down certain rules on epidemiological measures and to amend certain laws relating to epidemiological measures until closure. Government referral T/13308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2020-10-19-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We expect a difficult autumn and perhaps even more difficult winter due to the coronal virus epidemic, the second wave of which has different types of challenges compared to the first one for the whole world, including Hungary. At the first wave, the difficulty was that the world was completely unexpected by the global epidemic, but by now there was enough time for health systems to prepare for the next wave, which had already reached Hungary in the second wave. The rules adopted so far, the effectiveness of which has already been demonstrated, must continue to be maintained. However, we cannot be satisfied with this, and we believe that the regulation needs to be constantly reviewed so that we can come up with a strong defence. The government will continue to do everything in its power to protect the health, safety of Hungarian people and to keep the country operational. In our view, this goal coincides with the will of the Hungarian people, which was expressed in the national consultation during the summer; we know exactly what kind of protection people support, and also that they do not want the country to stop. In the spring Hungary was among the most defensive countries, but we cannot sit back. The government is constantly monitoring the results and feedback of law enforcement and health professionals, and therefore, in order to ensure that the second wave protection can be effective for the first wave, we consider that further measures included in the bill need to be taken. At the moment, there is an epidemiological alert in the country, the defense is proceeding according to plan, and the bill intends to contribute to this. We have proposed this special procedure because we believe that in the fight against the epidemic, we cannot do that we are waiting for it, because we are losing time, and that time can be measured in human lives and human health at the moment. The primary objective of the bill is to establish the three types of quarantine provided for in the Health Act, namely the epidemiological surveillance, the epidemiological quarantine and administrative facilitations related to the imposition and enforcement of official house quarantine, as well as the penalties applicable to infringements of official home quarantine. We want to regulate, first and foremost, the cases where the person concerned wishes to enter our country from a country as defined in other government regulations which involves placing in an official home quarantine. This quarantine obligation is proposed not to be an official decision, but to be declared by the law itself. The aim of border control is to ensure the simultaneous use of speed and professionalism, which is why in such cases, in the case of an official home quarantine obligation linked to border crossing, it is considered appropriate to fully highlight the decision-making process from the administrative procedure and to resolve this case by law. We believe that this will achieve a substantial reduction in the administrative burden. The other pillar of the proposal is cases where the legislation does not impose a mandatory quarantine for all, under certain circumstances. There is still a need to maintain individual decision-making here, and therefore the proposal establishes an exceptional regime for simplified decision-making, with which other quarantine matters can be dealt with in bulk, simply and immediately. Our priority is also to ensure that both the quarantine situation without decision-making and the quarantine situation involving simplified decision-making does not go unsanctioned in either case, and this draft regulation proposes and contains administrative penalties. [[21.00]] In order for the Hungarian economy and society to overcome the current situation with as little loss as possible, the bill amends, in addition to the previous ones, other laws, from which I would only highlight the most important ones very briefly. They're related to the epidemiological defense, but they're not related to the quarantine obligation. The amendment to the Law on the renting of dwellings, premises and their disposal states that in the event of an epidemiological emergency, the proper use and the supervision by the charterer of the fulfilment of the obligations of the contract are not mandatory in the given calendar year. Following the same line of thought, it is recommended to ensure that rental contracts concluded under the National Asset Management Programme are not subject to this verification. Other amendments to the Health Act aim to speed up the control of the epidemic in order to give the Head of Government Office the right to decide on the secondment of healthcare workers. In addition, we intend to support the activities of the operational tribe in the future with the scientific working group on epidemiological matters set up by the Minister for Government Science, the ITM Minister, and this will provide the legal basis for the fact that the operational tribe will provide the data necessary for the preparation of the analyses to the epidemiological scientific working group as a processor. In order to halt the spread of the coronal virus, the link between the electronic health service space, the public education information system and the basic system of public education registration and study would be carried out in the context of public education measures for the preservation of life and health. Under the amendment of the Violation Act, the maximum amount of the on-site fine increases from HUF 50,000 to HUF 150,000 in the event of breach of the protection measure and disruption of the operation of the public service plant in connection with the defence. The amendment of the Act on transitional arrangements for the cessation of an emergency is intended, inter alia, to extend the duration of the support for programmes and projects from budget support to the central budget; this represents a surplus of 180 days from the date of initial use. In order to ensure the most vulnerable sectors to the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic, such as tourism, catering, entertainment, gambling, film, performing arts, event organisation and sports services, the bill intends to extend the ban on the termination of rental contracts for non-residential service premises in the case of properties owned by public, municipal or territorial authorities until 30 June 2021. In addition, in the event of a breach of the rules on the retention of official house quarantine, an on-the-spot penalty may be imposed in the future under the bill in the absence of the perpetrator. According to the bill, penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and diverging provisions relating to the law on the enforcement of infringement procedures, which, as in previous rules, have already been made in the context of other legislative proposals, would therefore be subject to the bill until 30 June 2021. Finally, a similar rule of logic: extending the deadline for measures to protect companies based in Hungary for economic purposes would link this date to the credit moratorium until 30 June 2021 in order to protect the interests of Hungarian-based strategic companies. Dear Parliament, Hungary performed well during the first wave, based on the preparedness of the health system, we have every chance of doing so during the second wave. The Hungarian health system is also well placed in European comparison, and let us trust in the preparedness of doctors, nurses, epidemiological experts and border police officers. We see that Hungary's performance is also recognised in the World Health Organisation. I believe that the opinion of the organisation is clear in this regard. These proposals are very clear in the context of the second wave of the epidemic that the different defence strategies are being implemented as effectively as possible. I think it is indisputable that they contribute to the protection of human life, human health and the functioning of Hungary. I would therefore like to ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-10-19-257	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, There is quite a large proposal ahead of us, and it is no wonder that this proposal is so extensive, because the challenge that we have felt in our daily lives for months is not everyday either, since we have not yet faced a global epidemic of this size, and this presents difficulties for all of us. We have indeed arrived at the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic in Europe, which is rampant in the northern hemisphere, and we also feel in Hungary that the wave of the epidemic is taking off. In the spring, it was very well defended in the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, but unfortunately, the second wave is also powerful and even stronger than the first wave, and, as Mr. Secretary of State said, this is not over yet, so we need to prepare for a prolonged defense. The proposal therefore also affects a number of areas, in the light of which it seeks to mitigate the negative effects that we face and to ease and, if possible, eliminate the difficulties that we face in our daily lives. In fact, we all need very much patience, compassion, and care for one another, and these measures that await us in some cases are not easy to endure, but I trust that we will all be persistent and counting on each other's endurance and endurance in order to really pay attention to each other and to maintain our health. The proposal, as has been mentioned, concerns a number of areas, such as economic actors or even international cooperation, obligations and issues facilitating the decision-making of public bodies. I've just mentioned a few of these. I would like to go into a little more detail on the points that can affect most of us in everyday life. One such area is, of course, the scope of the proposals for an epidemiological quarantine. Therefore, as we are in the second wave of the epidemic and we can see that the number of cases is increasing, the scope of the epidemiological quarantine procedures will become massive and it is necessary to make these easier to amend the current rules of administration. Thus, the proposal also contains administrative facilitations, as Deputy Minister said, concerning the ordering and implementation of the three types of quarantine. The practical difficulty at present is that in all cases, i.e. when it comes to quarantine obligations, the quarantine obligation must be imposed by a decision in all cases by a separate procedure, and the proposal seeks to make this a little easier or, in large part, easier. In the event that a quarantine obligation should be imposed at the border crossing point, if this bill is adopted, an administrative decision should not always be taken, but the law itself will declare the quarantine obligation. [[21.10]] This would also substantially reduce administrative burdens and simplify the rules of the same jurisdiction by simplifying data processing rules. Another significant facilitation for persons who will be subject to quarantine is that they can register on the official website of the police 24 hours before entering Hungary, and may also report the address of the quarantine residence in advance, they may appear on this website. When the border crossing takes place, the exact time and place of entry shall be transmitted by the border control police to the competent police station at the place of quarantine within 8 hours of entry. These rules shall apply in cases where an official home quarantine is required for border crossings. There are cases that are unique and cannot be avoided by individual decision-making. For example, to determine whether an infection is suspected. In this case, it is absolutely exceptional, and it is absolutely necessary to take individual decisions, but this is something that the proposal intends to support by means of an exceptional decision-making procedure. It's very important that we don't get anywhere, one by one, if these rules come into force, but we don't follow them. So it's important that we keep them, that's when we'll be successful, and then we can protect each other. Therefore, the proposal also provides for the imposition of certain sanctions or the conversion of a system of administrative fines where there is a breach of the rules. As the police have already checked compliance with the rules, and the quarantined person is obliged to assist the police in allowing them to enter the quarantine residence if necessary. The proposal makes the use of quarantine software mandatory, which also helps control and also addresses how the transport of the quarantined subject should be carried out, what rules apply to its transport. If these rules are not complied with, the competent police department may impose a fine ranging from 5 thousand to 150 thousand forints per person. I would like to emphasise that these rules are for the protection of all of us, and it is important that we observe them with patience and with each other's attention, so that we can get through this difficult time as soon as possible. What we have heard in the Expoze is very important, in addition to the quarantine measures, that we know how the epidemic is spreading, we need to monitor this, and to do so, we need to simplify the provision of data between the electronic health service space, the KIR and the KRÉTA. These all serve to make it easier to identify educational establishments affected by coronal virus infection, so that the necessary protection measures can be taken more effectively, so that the head of the institution can be informed as soon as possible, the education necessary to meet the obligation to teach can be organised and, if necessary, the exceptional pause can be ordered or the need to be assessed. Similarly, it is proposed that the public education body or the vocational training body receive the Taj numbers of employees in employment with the institutions, so that they can be compared with the data of persons infected with the coronal virus from the electronic health service space. Perhaps I should mention two more elements, I would like to underline them. One of them also serves to halt the spread of the epidemic and to ensure very practical and effective control, and helps the operational tribe to include the establishment of an epidemiological scientific working group. This is in the interest of all of us, and it is also in the interest that the right to decide on the secondment of healthcare workers will now be transferred to the head of the competent government office. This will also help to respond more efficiently and quickly. I think that the points of the proposal I have mentioned, or those mentioned by the Deputy Minister, are all points which are eligible by my fellow Members, and I urge you to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-19-259	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Firstly, I would like to start with a general clarification. On several occasions today, Hungary's defences and the government's defences have been discussed. My fellow members of the Government and even the Prime Minister regularly confuse the criticisms that we address not Hungary, but the Government of Hungary and, above all, Viktor Orbán, the one-man leader of the defence. Ladies and gentlemen, When we say that Viktor Orbán lets the virus dictate the pace, we also believe that Viktor Orbán is doing this, because the experts, the profession, would recommend that he test it for free, widely, introduce restrictive measures, protect health and social workers. When we say that Viktor Orbán has released the virus and let the virus dictate the pace, we do not say that the profession is doing its job badly and that the health workers or the workers are working poorly, and we even start speaking every single time to thank them for their work. So don't confuse these two things. I think that the Hungarian government does not defend itself well, but Hungary, the people and the Hungarian health workers and those working in the social sphere do the best they can, as far as the existing instruments are concerned. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that it is obvious, as you said here, Prime Minister, at least do not believe your own lies. So you can lie about what the opposition says, but at least you don't believe it. We have our criticism of Viktor Orbán's personal proceedings, and that is where our criticism of the bill comes from. If we look into this bill, what we see is that, on the one hand, it is very difficult to understand why it has been necessary to wait until now, for example, to clarify quarantine regulations, even though since the end of August, Viktor Orbán has been regularly on Kossuth Radio on Sunday and to explain to the Friday morning broadcast what is happening in Hungary perfectly, that everyone has seen that there are indeed problems with quarantine, problems with the rules for ordering quarantine, cannot follow the classic system they have created, the problems in real life. But I beg you, why did we have to wait until October 19th? ! Why couldn't it have been submitted sooner? But at least now it's submitted. Thank you very much. The other problem, which clearly shows what is needed: well, money is needed, which is why there are fines in it. Obviously, the Secretary of State is well-trained, trained in law theory and legal matters, and I think a well-versed secretary of state, he knows very well that the level of this fine and administrative fines will force people to know what kind of rules to follow in masks. Their behaviour will primarily be determined by what other regulatory systems, whether social media, their own family habits or, by the way, by the way, by the example of the magistrate of the decision-makers on this issue, and then will really take ownership of the fact that he must wear a mask, that it must be observed. It's interesting why what worked in this case in the spring doesn't work now. This should be examined, not about collecting as much money from people as possible. Please, I think that what you are trying to throw at someone from 5,000 to 150 thousand forints and one day up to 600 thousand forints is far removed from what anyone in Hungary could afford from their own negligence. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment in order to adapt it to real life, real earnings, wealth and income, and we propose that yes, they should campaign to make everyone wear masks. And how can that be achieved? By giving people masks. [[21.20]] That's what the whole spring debate was about, that it would be mandatory to wear and that the state would be able to ensure. Orbán said to my question that he was sewing it for himself. He's obviously making FFP3 masks at home, 'cause that's when he was wearing them. So he wasn't even telling the truth about that. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Are you taking blood from Covidos? What do you need that for?]] What you were supposed to do was to provide people with the means to protect them at that time and now. It's the same with the other means of defense, the same with testing. We have also said today that Hungary is not good for testing. They say something else, and you can argue with me, you can attack me, you're used to it, so in politics it's in our attack, but for example, you're attacking Russian Beatrix, head of the ITM task force, a specialist who told us that this test is not enough, we're on top of capacity, we're not real values. Or they're attacking Ferenc James, who, by the way, was worn on a shield during the spring, and the virologist from Pécs told us everywhere, that this defense is not enough, it's not good. Compared to this, it was Balázs Orbán who criticized his statement, I think, on one of his ATV shows a few weeks ago, but no problem, we're used to having an argument with us, we're used to being attacked, there's nothing new about it, but I'm asking you not to attack these experts, especially when they tell you the truth, even if the truth hurts you in this case. And what else is in this law, and what does it have to do with the epidemic: gambling and gambling laws have to do with the control of the epidemic, or what does the concession have to do with it? It's none of your business. You've caught it, and you've brought in a salad law that's trying to fine-tune a few things on your own. If there could be something in it, yes, there should be free and extensive testing, the possibility of everyone getting a mask and being able to defend themselves. By the way, in the spring, the municipalities, the municipalities, who were the best certified, were at the forefront of putting masks on people, but now people have bought them with their own money. I'm just saying, where's the ton of masks you brought in? Why didn't this get to the population in some way? Or if it was distributed by someone, then who assigned it and in whose name? 'Cause I have a strong suspicion now that some of the donations were actually purchased on state funds, and one of your constituencies presidents, or maybe all of them, came to the municipalities and distributed it as his own donation, distributed what the state had acquired. So, what could be in it? It could include a wide range of free testing, the rules of masking, in which everyone is assured that they have access to the right mask and could have a much better regulator with a smaller fine. May I remind you that I asked the Ministry of the Interior to collect the data, HUF 1.1 billion, or HUF 1100 million, only from 15 March to the end of May, after the people you fined. And allow me a very sad story about this, which I personally experienced quite badly, when one of the unfortunate people in our own settlement, who had failed in other cases, was stopped on a motorcycle, who had gone to the police for his wife, had been taken to the police, true, drinking alcohol, and thought that such a procedure would be carried out against him, compared with his departure, he received the maximum fine for violating the epidemiological rules, so that he had his first such violation, and this unfortunate man for the next day, because, by the way, they didn't have the framework, he hung himself. It's just that there's no news, but there's family history. And you shouldn't charge people with a fine of 600,000 forints to go down. It is clear that you are sending this message to people that instead of testing, they will actually receive a check, and instead of masks, which have been purchased by tons, and Péter Szijjártó proudly presented every morning, there will be nothing, actually checks and fines. Dear Secretary of State, It is even more clear that in this form, as it is, because it lacks the most important conditions for defence, it is to protect the population, health workers, social workers, to test widely free of charge and to help people wear masks, they are not included, so that this legislation cannot be voted in favour. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-10-19-261	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-262	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We can see that now, at the time of the second wave, the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic is taking off all over the world, Europe and so in Hungary, it is in the emerging stage of the epidemic, 40 million infected people have been identified worldwide, and more than one million people have died in the world as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. Hungary has successfully defended itself during the first wave of the epidemic, the Hungarian people have observed the measures taken to protect their health with exemplary discipline, and the doctors, health workers, nurses, paramedics, defense, police, epidemiological experts and the operative tribe have done a heroic job. Thank them. We can remember that, although we managed successfully to deal with the first wave of the epidemic, we managed to get through it together, but the left side pulled itself out of the fight against the epidemic, could not be counted on, and not only could not be counted on, but also hindered the defense. Kamuvideos were produced, fake news was produced, and the epidemiological experts were attacked personally, in their faith, this line was now continued in the same way by Congressman Luke, and they did not stop during the second wave of the epidemic. But we thought that here, at the time of the second wave, which, we see, is a much stronger, much larger wave, we might need to work together here, but we may need to take action together, but they will continue exactly where they left off in July. They keep generating fake news, and the left-wing parties are competing with each other to find out who's gonna put the bigger camouflage on the social media site first. From left-wing politicians, texts such as eight out of 10 tests have to be paid by the Gyurcsány Party more than once, or statements such as Szabó Timea said that most people in the world died in our home today said that the third most of you, with such lies, have to deal with the epidemiological experts you have attacked every day. There's the epidemic, there's an amazing, unknown opponent, we've managed to prepare the health care system this summer, but it's still their job to deal with the epidemic 24 hours a day, but instead, your fake news production keeps them busy in time, part of the day, to respond to those half-information, lies, fake news. You claim there's not enough ventilator, then you say there's too much, and now that there's not enough again. Kálmán Olga, one of the Gyurcsányist politicians, said that there were not enough masks in hospitals; once again, hospitals had to correct that this was not true. Every day we face such false news, they frighten Hungarian people, and I think that is a huge responsibility on your part. Together we managed to overcome the first wave, together with the Hungarian people and the governing parties. You guys pulled yourselves out of it. National unity has been established without you. Now, even during the second wave, people are being disciplined, trying to comply with the measures, and you know perfectly well that Hungary must work, and you are scaring them with false news, scaring them with fake news, constantly scaring them with fake news, so that they don't believe the experts of the operational tribe, not the government, but you, who are the government, and, yes, well said Mr Luke, the government, their only goal in this defense is to attack the government. It is more important for you now that the government is accused of all kinds of slander, and it is still more important for you to attack us. We also tolerate attacks, no problem with that, and there is no problem that Peter James sometimes turns Parliament into a tavern, sometimes a market, because that's how he feels, that's no problem. The problem is that Hungarian people are constantly being intimidated by your false news. The truth is that in Hungary, together with the collaboration of the people and the health professionals, I think, and with the help of the epidemiological experts, we can once again overcome this epidemic. And we see that we need a completely different type of protection now than we did in the spring, which is what Mr. Secretary of State said. The bill before us also uses the experience of the past period, aimed at simplifying and speeding up quarantine regulations and quarantine procedures, making it easier to control those subject to quarantine and reducing administrative burdens for the authorities. [[21.30]] I have not heard the rest of my left-wing fellow Members, but I do not expect much good from it, as Mr Lukács has said, so you do not want to reduce the administration of the authorities; you do not want to simplify the quarantine rules; you do not want to make it easier to control our displaced fellow citizens, so you say no to them, if I understand correctly. However, as a result of the bill, the border crossing will become simpler and faster, the administrative burden will be significantly reduced, because if a person wishes to enter the territory of Hungary, the quarantine obligation will no longer be imposed by an official decision, but the law itself will, therefore, not have to take an administrative decision on the imposition of an official home quarantine in each individual case, but rather, it is sufficient to give the address of the quarantine residence. In order to speed up border control, it is possible for the quarantined person to communicate his/her address and personal data 24 hours prior to his/her entry into Hungary within the framework of electronic administration. The bill would therefore significantly simplify the imposition and control of official home quarantine, and mobile applications could be used to verify that quarantiners comply with the requirement. This would therefore not only be a significant administrative burden, but would also relieve police capacity, with more than ten thousand locations per day being visited at random. So you guys don't appreciate the police's work so much that it's easier for them to do this, and for us to have simpler quarantine control rules, because you think we should leave the current burden on our law enforcement staff and our police officers. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Yeah, we get it. As in the case of wage increases, Mr Lukács has already expressed his views on the proposal of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. This bill would also make it easier and simpler for schools, as there would be a significant opportunity for them to ask over the Internet whether they have a coronal viral student or a coronal viral teacher or a school employee. I must reject the accusation that the level and imposition of fines is changing because the state wants to raise some kind of money from its citizens. A fine is a deterrent; it is for people to think twice, several times, about whether it is worth it. Like a speeding ticket: is it worth it that I'll be there five minutes early if you can take a picture while you're doing it, and you'll have to pay a serious ten thousand forints? In the same way, is it worth it to me that I might go into a place without a mask where it's mandatory and infect others because I'm a carrier? Is it worth it to me that I go in without a mask? [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] The fact is that masking is not a political resolution, masking saves lives, can save the lives of our fellow human beings. Therefore, if we want to increase the deterrent effect of the fine and use it as described in the bill, it is clearly an inability political nonsense that the government would want to use it to smear citizens, or it would be some sort of fundraising action. I hope, and then we can have a successful defense... because let's not forget the responsibility of the citizen, because we say less about it. I think that the operational tribe, day and night, will do everything in its power to make our defense as successful as possible. Health care workers who are on the front line are doing their best day and night to make our defense more successful, but we can't take the civic responsibility out of the formula. I hope that a piece of such a fine will not be imposed. I hope that in the same discipline as in the spring, the Hungarian people will observe these measures, comply with the quarantine obligation, respect the rules of masking, respect the rules of distance, because together we will succeed again. And I think that's the point of this bill, and I would really, really like it to not be imposed. If you have to use this device by accident because you are breaking these rules, or you are getting incorrect information because of the false news you are spreading, then, of course, you have to use this opportunity to commit the least possible number of offences. That is what I wanted to clarify, because my fellow Member here has said such absurdities that I had to respond to. I think that the current bill clearly clarifies the conclusions that have been drawn so far and helps to reduce the administrative burden in detail, simplifying the quarantine rules, and all of this leads to a faster, smoother administration, so that quarantine is ordered as soon as possible, and a person who may be considered a close contact will be quarantined sooner. They are all administrative burdens, since we all, the whole country, have to make sacrifices in such an epidemic. For everyone, it's a small resignation, a sacrifice. Of course, patients and health workers are the biggest victims, and we see this, but it is very important that where we can simplify the administrative burden, so that we do not impose an even greater burden on dealing with the current epidemic, it is our duty and we must do so. And if you don't support the burden of these people, those on the front lines, I think you're doing exactly what you've been doing, not supporting defense, and obstructing defense. Without your votes, we will simplify the procedures, and without your votes, we will remove the burden of health workers and law enforcement workers, but I think it would be much, much, much more elegant, and more important than the severity of the epidemic situation if it were done by your votes. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one wished to speak in a two-minute time frame, there is now room for further speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We've heard a lot of things in this debate so far. Elegant, isn't that what we've heard last time, although my fellow Member said in a rather grumpy way that you're elegant, but elegantly in a rule tsunami about such a defence, so to speak, you're just not putting something into the salad law about gambling and concessions. Well, how does that help you defend yourself, Member? Why do we always have to plant doubt in us? Maybe you mean well, maybe we see certain things differently. Yes, we would also like to reduce the administrative burden for the authorities, but we would also like to reduce the administrative burden for the population, because when it comes to administering to people who are not really prepared, do not have the tools, do not learn this, do not live from it, do not do this, they may do it wrong. We cannot teach the whole population, no matter how careful we are, so there should be some sort of transitional rules, some sort of curve of these measures. But when we talk about these things, to tell you quite accurately, the E.E. Law is 74/B. We are talking about its section, where even the justification of the law clearly shows what is exactly what to do, then we say that these would be possible with an amendment, with an amendment at any time, based on the experience gained in the future. But here we are at different heights, where my fellow Member Nacsa raised, paralleling masking and traffic rules. I think, fellow Members, that we can feel free to be proud of the Hungarian people that they complied with the rules in the spring; they have followed the rules dirtyly. They followed the rules with closed public spaces, closed playgrounds, aired children on the side of the road, the home office, which could either be done or worked from home, or couldn't be, parents taking care of children at home, who ran out of freedom, who lost their jobs because of it, but got dirty. [[21.40]] They made less, but they didn't want to infect their families. They have all the respect and respect. Now, let's help them in the second stage a little bit more. Of course, there's a lot of skepticism around us. Some people say there's no virus. Of course they're wrong! It swept all over the world. Let us establish rules that can be followed. There's always a time in this House when for some reason we always measure everything in CTs, and then we measure it in respirators, and now we measure it in the amount of masks. Why don't we measure the rules of common sense? Basically, these rules may not be met by common sense rules. And, of course, they contribute to the protection of human life, as you said, Deputy Minister, as is the gambling concession. What is it doing in this law? Why bring him here now? Why didn't they put it in a separate law? That we're going to chase this through quickly, like this, under cover of the night? For whose sake? Whose life is this protecting? ! Trust the doctors, trust the nurses. Of course we trust us. How can we not trust them? In fact, let's trust people's good judgment, especially when someone's going through my experience, it's written in the paper, and I know that Deputy Minister has also experienced that they had to go to the test. Luckily, it was negative. I've thought about it, too, after reading about 60 to 70 pages of rules that now exist, how to simplify them. What do I have to do now until I get the results? And I thought about what would have happened if I hadn't even been able to get a test. I meet a lot of people. I was interested, too. I don't want to infect my coworkers or my family. Why don't you make a rule about that? People who meet a lot of people aren't just us, why don't they get two free tests a month? Because it doesn't matter what he brings home. I think he's really worried about his family, too. That's why I thought you guys would do a quick test. But I think a cashier in a mall meets more people than I do. A bus driver meets more people than I do. A trolleybus driver meets more people than I do. And I think we really need to take care of them to keep the country operational. That's the rule that's missing. Those who provide the public service, who work in retail, or even the doctors and nurses we are proud of, because we are proud of, but why don't we help them by giving them at least one quick test twice a month? We can pay for it, I don't think for us, for Members of Parliament, I don't think the country is worried about us, that we can't pay for a 14 thousand or even 20 thousand HUF test. But those who are only on average wages in Hungary will be given a slap in Baranya County, where I come from, especially in South Baranya, who earns so much, he cannot afford it, even though there is so much certainty. This could fall from the gambling concession, Mr. Deputy Minister, which has somehow been broken into this law. I think citizens who are concerned deserve so much. Of course, they don't want to break the rules, but some people are gonna do it, and some people are gonna deserve to be punished, and some people aren't. We're asking you to come up with some carefully thought-out rules. At some point in the spring, everyone understood the rush. When I got a call from retail stores that I thought he could open it now, I told him I read the law, you can open it, I just can't go in because you're not a gas station, you're not fake nails, you don't sell food. I think it was possible to get into these, but there was no way to go to a jewelry store or a florist. He could have opened it, only I couldn't go in. Okay, we understand, we had to hurry, we didn't have everything fully thought out, and then we could make the rules. But there's experience now. That's what we've heard here about the credit moratorium and everything, that there's already enough experience. Then I think that these rules could be more elaborate, more elegant, and you don't have to drag a gambling concession into this. Why did you do that? You could only care about the well-being of the people and the safety of the people, not to drag the concession into this place, to drive it through the House quickly, because it's important to someone. Let this come into a separate law. But what I'm saying is that for those of you who work... and we know that the country can't stop again, we know that the government and the economy can't stand it, and people really don't want the country to stop again, to feel safe, to increase their sense of comfort, and to increase the comfort of their families, maybe even to get two tests a month. For those of you who work in public services, retail, that's what they really need. I think that if you can fit in quickly before the vote, and you can get into it with a quick committee meeting, then of course you can put that in there, and maybe we can all sort of settle our doubts at some level, that gambling concession could be taken out of it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-19-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-266	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State and fellow Members, I'm not surprised that we're discussing such an important bill and law, a salad law at this late hour. I came in today from a 24-hour service, so I came here this morning after a 24-hour ambulance service, and I was surprised that you just filed this as you did the previous health code. This is a quick, quick-to-pass legislation; in the media, they have shown evidence of an increase in medical wages, they have informed the public about the introduction of parasolvency, but they have not talked about any other changes to the legislation behind it, which are closely affecting healthcare workers or the medical community. They didn't talk about guidelines, they didn't talk about changes in labour law laws that people and health workers are interested in. Unfortunately, this bill is based on the same pattern. We are talking about an important law that everyone thinks is important, because we are in the middle of an epidemic that not only we, but Europe as a whole, are struggling with. And at this late hour, some Members are talking about how good this bill is, a bill in which such concessions have been smuggled into it. What's it got to do with him, anyway, defense? Can anyone answer that? No! Then let's talk about real life. When do we talk about well-functioning epidemiological measures and protections? We talk when the measure is fast, effective, most people comply with these provisions, there is enough human resources in health care, there is enough laboratory capacity to perform tests, and administration is up to date. That he's fast, I wouldn't call him that. Impressive? If we look at the daily data, unfortunately, we have to say that more than 10 percent of patients treated in the hospital need a ventilator. This means that one in ten patients who are admitted to the hospital are treated by some type of ventilator. Is there enough human resources in health care? (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) A lot of people have reduced the number of PCR tests either on immediate questions or in speeches before the agenda or now. Dear fellow Members, Although you may have been at the other end of the PCR test as the subject to be tested, do you know that a tested unit that walks around the villages can do 12 hours a day and try as hard as possible? Sixty-five-seventy pieces per unit. [[21.50]] One unit. And in this country, we have 19 counties, and we could now calculate very quickly that if I only say maximums in each county, because that's the maximum of three units doing this, the data will come out very simply that there is a minimum number of tests that we can do, and that will be added to the tests carried out at the health facility. And if you look at the daily data, the number of infected people per day is about 1,000-1400. That's because we have this much testing capacity. Unfortunately, we can't do any more, even if we break up. And when is an epidemiology treatment effective? If everyone keeps it. When this outbreak started, I think most of the population, I don't want to say too much, but 90 percent of them must have followed the measures that the government had taken. The home office, stay at home, just move out of your apartment if you need to, don't go anywhere, avoid contact, wear a mask, wash your hands. Then the summer came, these measures relaxed, the borders opened. Although in government communication it was less Adria, more Balaton. Many people have observed this, they have followed the law, but you have not always set an example for people, and this has made society sceptical. When you say in communication that you should comply with the rules, you are expected to act in the same way, whether you are a Member or a State Secretary or a Minister. They also expect them to speak the truth. When I heard today that a State Secretary said that the opposition representative who claims that the capacity of hospitals assigned to the epidemiological situation was full or that some hospitals could no longer receive covid patients is lying. Well, the Secretary of State lied. I just left in the morning: the hospital didn't take him, and the hospital designated in the second wave was the one who could take care of him. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán and Lőrinc Nacs will spread his arms. Nacsa Lőrinc: Good morning.]] Now you're opening your arms, Mr. Secretary, interpret the sentence that there are no hospitals with full capacity. Yes, you do. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: No! Interjection: They just can't take patients because they're fed up.]] Yes, Mr President, the debate is becoming such a bar-style.
u2020-10-19-267	Thank you very much for your comments. It's right to talk at once, I know it's hard to keep up, but let's try here on Monday night, it's a long way from the end of the week. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-10-19-268	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the order. I've listened to you, and I expect the same from you. I know the truth hurts, but it's the truth. Opposite government communication hinders defense. Anything anyone says. That's why there are so many skeptics. When you said Supercups could be a 450-person concert for some people, it could be a wine festival, but now children can no longer have an in-school sports opportunity at the end of school, there can be no daughter-in-law dances and other things, these are completely opposite things, fellow Members. How much safer is a 20,000-view football game than, say, 15 children after a handball training period? There are good parts of this bill or salad law, but there are a lot of bad things. In principle, legislation speeds up the quarantine order, gives the officers guarding the border more privileges and thus accelerates that information and order. The question is this, and I would like a clear answer to that, Mr Secretary of State, is whether the regulations and regulations we have so far are still in place. Here I am thinking that there is a Hungarian citizen working abroad, he wants to come home, and in 48 hours he will produce two negative test results at the border, then he will have a quarantine obligation or there, in which case no action will be taken by the authority. It is important to know that, contrary to Hungary, Germany, Austria, several states of the EU and the EU, let us say, Switzerland, if requested by the worker and ordered by the general practitioner, then the test is absolutely free. This is not how it works in Hungary. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: If the general doctor orders it? It's free with us, too.]] He's a doctor's order, yes. But not at the request of a patient, that is, not at the request of a private individual, who shows no symptoms or has nothing to do with the disease, he doesn't. Then, with regard to the fines, it was said here that the amount of the fines should be increased, that is why... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] Mr. Secretary, I've been listening to you. And I understand that you're in a hurry to get home, but I waited after 24 hours to be here... 10:00 p.m.
u2020-10-19-269	Thank you so much, thank you so much for helping me with my work. [[Lajos Rig: So this is what I've been waiting for.]] Thank you so much... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I'm free! Lajos Rig: I'm free, too.]] I'm glad you're free, and I can come up with different opinions on this, but it's definitely your call, so speak up, tell me what you want, Congressman.
u2020-10-19-270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several Members said that the size and increase of fines prevent them from becoming perpetrators and offenders. I'm begging you! Drug distribution and possession are sanctioned by the law for several years, and yet, unfortunately, I have to say, there are drug distributors and drug users in Hungary as well. In the same way, the killing of human life has sanctioned crime over several decades, and yet it is committed. Good behaviour, respect and conduct of responsible government powers can, indeed, lead to a citizen's law-abiding behaviour that prevents it and does not require such a penalty. I beg you, if, hypothetically, you catch someone, you don't use the mask, you're grounded, then for three hours again, you'll quickly collect that amount. How does a normal person pay it? You don't. You, unfortunately, have one hand to caress health care workers, since you are constantly complimented in your speeches and punched with your other hand. With the law that will be introduced on January 1st, you will be beaten with it. And even though you refer to, say, the Medical Chamber or the trade unions, the Medical Chamber says the exact opposite. The MESK now collects signatures so that the law is not introduced. Who's that man? Can't you be a medical chamber president or official asking to be sent away for a year without an epidemic threat, a doctor or a worker? I understand that if there is an epidemiological situation, we need the secondment, because unfortunately you have recognised in this resolution or bill this is a shortage of professionals, and that is what the Health Act 229 is about. This is because you are talking about the rules of secondment, which I assume is not enough for the specialist in one place. Then it's administrative error. And I wouldn't have believed that if it hadn't been for my family, specifically for my wife. In the current epidemiological regulations, the quarantine obligation is ten days for contact persons. That's okay, because the incubation period for this virus is 3-14 days, and the symptoms are coming out. That's fine, no matter what viral disease we're talking about. How can it be that if the system is working well, my wife receives the decision as a justification and as a general justification that the person under surveillance is a close contact of a person with confirmed Covid-19 infection on the basis of the information found during the epidemiological investigation and should therefore be subject to epidemiological surveillance? That's right. The dates will come. Date of epidemiological surveillance: 2020. From the 7th day of month X to the 16th day of midnight. [[22.00]] Ten days, all right. But when was this ordered? 2020. On the 15th of the month X, at 1:50 p.m. Retroactive. Well, he was working. Who's responsible for this? Mr. Secretary, do you think it's normal for us to take retroactive decisions to order quarantine? Is this a responsible procedure in the epidemiological legislation? Well, that's why they don't believe you. Unfortunately, that's why, and that's one of many. That's why the number of people infected every day is rising, which is why there are so many patients. If decisions were taken late, it could have been not just close contact, it could have been positive. What if they check it out? He worked on the 7th, the 8th, the 9th and the 10th. It shall be dated 15 and shall have retroactive effect. Is this how you want to take emergency measures? There are a lot of things in it that I agree with, and perhaps the current legislation will rule that out, but is it responsible for who is responsible for this? Because you have adopted these regulations, you have implemented them. I trust that the amendment that will be tabled with my fellow Member, at least here to reduce the amounts, will be adopted, and then perhaps this law will be better. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-271	Thank you very much. Good evening. I haven't had a chance to say hello yet. We'll get back to work. Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-272	Thank you very much. Good evening, Mr. President. Dear House, The fact is that I have listened carefully to both the Secretary of State and all the speakers, and on the one hand it is quite clear that this bill, let's call it a name, this salad law, at least a good part of it is necessary; it is necessary, because you have basically played Russian roulette with a full-load of spinning pistol, holding this gun to our heads. And indeed, this weapon was fired, because it was due to the effective involvement of the government that a very strong image of the virus was created in Hungarian society; that many people otherwise did not wear the mask correctly; that they did not comply with the quarantine rules and regulations. Because Muller Cecília, who you defended against me, I don't know why he had to be protected, because I didn't hurt him, I simply called his attention to trying not as a politician, but as a professional, to this question, even a few months ago he told me not to wear a mask, just anyone who was sick. People didn't do anything else, I beg you, they just followed what they saw from the government. You have seen from your shaman, Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister, that he does not wear a mask in protest, Péter Szijjártó did not wear a mask even in the last few weeks, and this line could be continued indefinitely. And then they realized that the gun that was loaded up there could go off, and suddenly everybody started rushing. And you guys pulled this on yourselves, and it's not that you've been dragged down on your own, it's that you've brought this problem to us, ten million Hungarians. The biggest problem is that you have destroyed the public administration, the state institutional system with ten years of systematic work, and now you are amazed that the government, the public institutions, is unable to carry out the task that is imposed on them by the epidemic, you simply cannot control the quarantine situation, you cannot implement the rules that need to be implemented because of the epidemiological situation. And now there's a salad law that actually needs to simplify the administration. And, of course, I don't have to tell you that you've smuggled in rules that make the hair on your back burn. Because really, how casinos, concessions, and gambling come to this, you think about it. But I have to say, I will be a guide dog on Hortobágy if, in a few weeks or months, we will not see that one of Viktor Orbán's dear family or dear stooges suddenly has access to a casino. 'Cause the whole point of this whole thing is that the quarantine rules now have some kind of regulated status, or they will have, this honeycomb thing, but in fact, I'm afraid that deep within the fine prints of the law, you're playing to make billions of skis again. It's quite clear that most of the bill is designed to protect the disease, but all the rest of it is nothing, take it well. It's a category. And I'd really like to take out just a few of them. One is police action. We need police measures, we need control, that's for sure, but tell me why someone is involved in this draft legislation, that if necessary, the police can go into the apartment, because we know very well that it is in the primary interest of a quarantined person to prove that he is who he is. And that doesn't require the police to go in and even search the premises. It doesn't make any sense why that got in there. I'm gonna tell you two stories because we were talking about the left spreading rumors. They both happened to me or in my neighborhood. One is similar to what my fellow Member, Mr Rig, said. My wife was quarantined as a contact person, an educator, with several infected children in her class. My wife wanted to keep working, so we called the authorities with some hell of a hard time that she wanted a test. They told him they thought it was pointless because they could take a six-day test, and it would take about the same time to evaluate the results of the test. We said that if that's the case, then fine, then let it go. And we've been waiting to see what happens when you get a decision at all. I'll tell you one surprising thing: the little red card, supposedly, as soon as it's quarantined, must be put out in a visible, recognizable place, door, window, anywhere, on the last day before the quarantine ended, along with the resolution. The police came out twice, rang the bell, asked if he was here. Where's the red card? Well, we didn't get that. Yeah, no one else got it, so, okay, let's get to work. And the next is a distant relative of mine, a little girl who's clearly Covid-positive. He was tested for six days, received the test results six days later, but in the meantime, the ten-day quarantine period was over. They said everything was fine then, because it didn't get sicker, so you can go study. I beg you, do you think this is the well-functioning health and institutional system that you are proud of? Because it's not, it's not. We know very well that it is in the common interest of all of us, unlike what you are trying to do here only for hours today, that the left is interested in making as many patients as possible here. Well, it's a screaming nonsense, please, because it's in my interest that this virus leaves our country as soon as possible. And DK, we know very well, has supported any measures otherwise and any regulations that have reduced or prevented the spread of the epidemic. But, I'm gonna ask you where the specific measures you promised me are. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The Law!]] Where is the legislation on teleworking promised in August, the increased protection of workers' labour rights? Secretary of State, do you see it in this salad law? Because I don't see it. We can see very well that they want to resolve with a single short paragraph that the government will arrange the transfer of any healthcare worker working in the country to another health institution, but what the conditions of this, what the framework, what the detail would determine, what the conditions under which they do this are at all, there is no single word about it. [[22.10]] And the fact that the government, under the cover of the emergency measures, is interfering with the law on the organization of gambling, I was just talking. You may recall that in recent months we have tabled several legislative proposals, including the provision of care for those affected by the coronal virus, the increased protection of parents' labour rights, and the provision of free internet, to support teleworking and distance learning. We believe that this would be the tangible support, that is what is needed. But I understand that this law is necessary, because there is simply no man who can carry out a series of measures given by the epidemic, because you have crushed it, driven away those who work in public administration, because they have not been valued, because these people are not getting paid. The problem is that it is not you who are paying the price, but ten million Hungarians. We are confident that this epidemic will actually run the way it should, as soon as possible and without any particular tragedy, and that the predictions that we sometimes hear from many places will not work. But it is quite clear that you are now trying to beat the dust on society for which you are responsible, for which Viktor Orbán is responsible, for which Müller Cecília is responsible, for which Minister Kásler is responsible. Because, yes, Hungarians are a pattern-following people, and you have provided a pattern for months that has otherwise created this skeptical mood about the epidemic. Now we're gonna have to drink this. Gentlemen. Good luck with the next defense.
u2020-10-19-273	Thank you very much. The next speaker is the last in the current list of candidates, this is not in any way depression, but only information from Jobbik's representative, Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-274	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I did not wish to speak, but hearing the debate, I am speaking on this subject, and why. I, too, have read this bill quickly here, and I have thought about a number of things, which have already been mentioned several times by my fellow Members. For example, the amount of the fine. When the legislation says that a fine of more than 600 thousand forints per day cannot be imposed, it is simply amazing that, in the face of private exposure, let us say, if you do not wear the mask, and then you will find out twice or three times, and you will receive a fine of 600 thousand forints... so this is amazing! So I'd like to ask you how a pensioner in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will pay this amount from an average pension of 125-130 thousand forints, or how an active earner in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will pay the lowest income. The average salary is 180,000 HUF in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where there are a lot of public workers who only earn 53 thousand HUF, obviously they won't eat or drink, and then in 12 months a public worker will pay the penalty for the mask. I'm not saying you don't have to punish people, you don't have to put pressure on them. But how do you squeeze people on it? I think there are two things that can get people to do. One of the most important things is information. We need to make people understand why masking is important, what the mask is good for, what it protects us from, who it protects, and in this context they have received completely contradictory information from you. This is also why many do not believe that the mask is useful. There's no right TV show to tell you why you're protecting him, how you're protecting him, where people would see that part of him. The other is the example. I also had a Facebook entry during the first wave, because I was completely outraged about the masking of Parliament, that Fidesz-KDNP politicians simply refused to wear masks, set no example for people. 90 percent of you didn't have a mask at the time of the first wave, and what's more, I thought the most outrageous thing was that the opposition politicians had masks, and you, the Fidesz fellows in the hallway, called us in, like me, laughing at why you were wearing that mask. You think laughing that it'll protect you? You think so? with a sarcastic laugh. I think that this is very outrageous, and that is why they have set an incredibly bad example for the Hungarian people constantly. The fact that you've just been released in the second wave is that it's mandatory that you always have it on you, but it's not because you think so, but because you've been forced to do so. Dear Congressman Nacha, You would have worn it, as would your other fellow Members in the spring, if you had. But you didn't want to set an example for people, you didn't think it was serious, and they thought you weren't gonna catch up with them, at least somewhere, but they're not gonna be you. So this negative example was a huge mistake, and it should be done, not with the fine of 600,000 forints, but with the personal example, with a good example. And another amazing thing: how does this bill include the law on the organisation of gambling, the concession law? It's more important for you at this point than protecting against an epidemic because it was brought into the emergency trial. Tell me, explain how this affects the control of the epidemic, how it affects the organisation of gambling. You're saying there's no chance of gambling during the second wave of the plague? Or why is it so important that you get in? Or aren't they going to grant Lőrinc Mészáros anything in the near future as long as the plague continues? Or what do you think? So, based on all this, people are obviously wondering what this bill was about, what they want to achieve, and how they want to defend themselves against the epidemic. Yes, people see that the attitude is inadequate, the professional experience is inadequate, and they draw inadequate conclusions, and that is why the number of patients is constantly increasing, every day, therefore the number of deaths is increasing in Hungary. We'd prefer the government to take responsibility for it. You always point to the opposition, the opposition is to blame, because you did not support this bill and this bill. Yes, you can. It was just the opposition who suggested that school visits should be limited at the time, the opposition was, we suggested every step much sooner, when they laughed at us not to do it, we couldn't do it today, and after that you were forced to take the steps proposed by the opposition, which we suggested. And you say we didn't support him? ! That's because you've asked for an indefinite mandate, and we've also suggested that we give you that, just in time. We suggested several variations so that they could be extended and even extended by themselves. All you wanted was a mandate without a deadline, just so that you could rely on it, because you made political capital out of it, already planning to make political capital out of this bill, so that you could actually point back to the opposition, that the opposition didn't support it, just like you've been doing ever since you've been in government since 2010. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-19-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. He asked for a two-minute speech by Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-276	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I multiplied it here quickly, because we talked a lot about the reason for the rapid tests today and that this quick test is the future. It should not be forgotten that there is a difference and difference between PCR tests. The advantage of this PCR rapid test is that it produces results within 15-20 minutes. But for this 15-20 minute, you have to add the time it takes to run the test. We'll prep the patient, we'll remove the sample, we'll take out the test tube, we'll dip that stick in it, we'll break it, and then we'll wait for this 20-minute time interval. Now, let's figure out if you're just gonna take the test while you put the five drops on it and wait for the 20 minutes and the preparation, it's gonna take at least 30 minutes, within an hour, if you're on the same scene, we're gonna be able to see two patients, 24 or 48 in a 12-hour service, okay? We can look at 65 patients with the current PCR test, so we're not ahead. In my opinion, increasing laboratory capacities would be more forward-looking. This rapid antigen PCR test was designed for a differential diagnosis. [[22.20]] If an ambulance in emergency care goes to the site and has time and does not delay patient care, it can determine whether the patient is positive or negative, and it gives the institution to be delivered to. That's what this is for. If we want to increase test capacity, we can do that by increasing labs and lab capacity. Unfortunately, these PCR rapid tests are not good for this. It's very good, but not in this form; in emergency care, maximum. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-19-277	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. The amendments were possible until the end of the debate. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Yes.]] I wish. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-278	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First, I would like to correct a few things: in the heat of the debate, the factual basis of the speeches was missing, and this is worth doing at least for the sake of the protocol, so that it does not remain so. What's gonna get people to follow the rules? In our opinion, there are basically two things that you mentioned: information campaigns, which are very, very important. I have often sat here in Parliament, we have often argued about these issues, but we have not been accused of not doing information campaigns in sufficient quantities and depth, but it seems that this has also been done this evening. I will convey the comment to Paul Győrfi [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] that he might need to be more involved and say more about the things that are crucial. I understand every yelling, but don't ever fall into that trap again, because these people are professionals. I think it is not worth attacking Pál Győrfi and the other professionals. They're doing their job, and I think the information they're doing is crucial. That is exactly what you have proposed in your speeches. The other issue is the issue of administrative fines. I accept everything, and I also understand that if you, as a left-wing opposition, are building a political agenda on this, that is absolutely fine. But if you'll allow me and have a little more time, it's worth looking at the bill, because then it turns out that what you said was simply not true. This section, which is about the fines you have mentioned, is set out in section 8. § (1) and (2). That section determines, on the one hand, the amount of the fine that you have criticised and the activity in which this fine can be imposed. There are the activities that you have indicated in the debate, such as masking in shops, public spaces, in such places, it is not included at all. Therefore, this is not the case in this proposal. Exactly a list from a to this point is given in section 8. § (1) and, if you look at it, this taxatical list cannot be expanded in any way by the law enforcement, but if you, as Members of Parliament, will support the bill or not vote on it, then this will be the list on which it can be sanctioned. And in the list from a to this point, it is quite clear that rules relating to non-compliance with the quarantine obligation can only be sanctioned in this way. Rules on transport, travel, marking, violation of rules on the application of quarantine software, violation of rules on departure from quarantine, breach of traffic, travel rules on testing under quarantine obligation, and breach of rules on access to quarantine accommodation. There may be a philosophical difference between us, but if the authorities put me in quarantine or because I'm coming home from abroad or otherwise, and I'm breaking this quarantine rule in the middle of the second wave of a coronal virus epidemic, then I'm sure the authorities will strike me with the full rigor of the law. I think that there is no exaggeration here, because it is not only a violation of the rules in general, but also a penalty for intentional infringements of provisions relating specifically to quarantine obligations. There may be a philosophical debate between us, but I think that, in relation to the rules that the Government has taken at the request of the Parliament and the operational tribe in relation to the management of the second wave of the epidemic, there is a dog's duty to make provisions that allow compliance with it and the use of official means against those who break it. So besides that, I'd be very strict about it. Secondly, I am always absolutely understanding of opposition speeches which refer to the salad law as a pejorative term and generally make negative comments on the quality of legislation in connection with salad laws. I'm telling you, I'm understanding, because these are obviously the most complicated rules in the legislative sense, so it's worth taking care of. But I beg you, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, we are talking about 27 paragraphs. To say that this will bring the Hungarian Parliament to ruin, because there has been a salad law that is again skandalum... well, we are talking about 27 paragraphs. I think it's going to be a bit of an exaggeration again. In the context of raising the wages of doctors and health workers and conducting: I think that they are doing superhuman activity. It is also superhuman activity that is carried out, especially in connection with the management of the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, because in the first wave, the health care system has virtually stopped except for non-life-saving interventions and non-coronal virus-related interventions. However, we are now following the defence strategy that the normal health care system is also functioning, while health workers also need to carry out increased tasks related to the control of the coronal virus. So it is quite clear, I think, that it is a perfectly justified and excellent decision that, in addition to the fact that there has already been a financial compensation for this increased workload in the summer, this is in the context of the wage increase proposed by the Medical Chamber and in the context of which negotiations are even taking place, this will also be carried out in the context of the second wave. But there are two sides to the coin, and here I would stick to our right. Of course, the tasks related to the control of the coronal virus require greater flexibility from health workers than in the general situation, because patients associated with the coronal virus cannot be transported, because the related tasks are, in a geographical sense, stimulated in some other locations, while in some cases higher medical capacity is needed in other areas. Therefore, we cannot ignore management, and the rules here serve to simplify the provisions relating to management. There was still a question of testing. We have always said that we are constantly expanding testing capacities. Mobile testing points have been set up, antigen-based rapid tests are being introduced at the moment, and testing is being carried out in accordance with international protocols. Restrictive measures have been identified. Another opposition voice revealed to me that the measures that we have taken are too strict. I ask the honourable opposition to decide what it wants. Decide to shut down the country. It's an absolute legitimate position. We don't think we have to defend ourselves the way we did in the first wave. We think that this is not the right defence strategy, but that must be decided. What can not be done is that you say once in a row that we should take more stringent measures, that we should take restrictive measures like Congressman Varju wasn't here in the spring, that he might have listened to the debate on screen, but such proposals were also made, while on the other hand it was said that those measures were too strict and that they should be done in a more citizen-friendly way. I can't do that if he's wearing a hat, the problem is, if he's not wearing a hat, that's the problem. I call on the opposition to make a decision in this regard, because that is what voters expect. Moreover, one of the health and social care providers and workers is, as I mentioned, wage increases and the other is the ban on visits. [[22.30]] There is much to say, however, but it is a very strict restriction, and it worked very effectively, as the Chief Medical Officer referred to. There's only one thing I'd like to say about the concession reviews. As in the first wave of protection against the epidemic, we have taken the view that, in addition to human life and human health, jobs and the economy must be maintained, as we are doing now, that these two defence strategies are progressing in parallel, so it is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that if there are health and life protection rules for the management of the coronal virus epidemic, then there will certainly be economic protection rules, which will continue to come before Parliament. I would like to ask you to finally change your strategy in this context, not to spread false news, not to respond to these measures, because you always support similar ideas and measures on a principle level, but when action is to be taken, there is always a lack of courage and strength, and not towards the yes button, but towards the non-button. I don't think that's a good attitude, and that's something you should think about. More specific questions have been asked. Will the rules so far remain in place? The answer is quite simply yes, this bill does not affect the rules so far, they are not settled in this law. The law itself refers to specific rules, normally at regulation level, which are already in force in this context and remain in force. I would like to clarify one more thing that Congressman Rig says is that the capacity is full or incomplete. For months we have been talking about how we have prepared health care in the context of the second wave of protection, that there are first round defensive hospitals in relation to the coronal virus, second rounds, third circles, and then there is a strategy, and then there is a plan that if we do not give to God, the number of patients in need of hospital treatment will be even more unleashed, then everyone should receive care, and that there should not occur cases such as in the context of the first wave of the epidemic, such as in Italy or in other southern countries. And if someone in a situation like this, when they know exactly that this is the case, they say that the hospital capacity is full... take out the personal edge of the debate, so I'm not saying that you said that, only rumors of this kind appeared in the press... [[Lajos Rig intervenes.]] I'm just saying that it wasn't you who said it. It was the press. So if someone in this situation, when we've watched what's happening in Italy in the spring, says that the hospital capacity is full, that they don't accept the coronal virus patients in hospitals, that's a scare, and it doesn't cover reality. Because the hospitals assigned to the first wave of defense may be full, but there's no problem, there's a plan, there's another hospital capacity allocated by the medical government to treat patients with coronal viruses. Thus, the words spoken here, and especially by those who hold office in public life, are of great importance. That is why I say that once we can provide all the patients with the coronal virus, and that is why we have medical training, the acquisition of masks, the acquisition of ventilators, the guidance of medical personnel, all the measures that you have been constantly criticizing, it was necessary for us to be able to say at every moment during the epidemic that there is no coronal virus patient in need of medical or hospital care, and that we cannot provide this medical or hospital care for him, because I think it would be a shame. In this situation, therefore, to scare him by the fact that hospitals are full and there are no capacities, let me not use a stronger term. It's irresponsible. I think that this bill, and I will end with that, Mr President, thank you very much for your patience in a completely clear, completely sober, completely neutral way, by incorporating administrative burden reduction and rationality and practical experience in the fulfilment of the quarantine obligation, not only from the authority side, but also from the citizen's side. I hope that as few people as possible will encounter this situation, but unfortunately now, in the second wave of the epidemic, it is inevitable, and they do not care at all what rules they encounter. The rules that go beyond this include facilitations, simplifications or economic recovery measures that are inevitable to protect jobs and the economy. I would like to thank all of you for your support in the debate and encourage you all to support this bill in the final vote in as many ways as possible beyond political logic. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-19-279	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that further discussion and decision will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, MEP László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition, gives his opinion:. What is the situation on the wool front? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-280	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There are social groups whose voices rarely reach the walls of Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to another national problem, because I think we need to hear people who have less strong voices at times, and it sounds less far from what they want to say that they are in a difficult situation for some reason. The example I'm about to give you is also an important and kind place for me, from the neighbourhood of Berettyóújfalu, but I can see that there are a lot of others, and they are even written about in this form. This is the city where they think of the social environment where, in recent years, in the heat of the election campaign, they promised to renovate a factory, restart a factory by painting a statue, and people who wanted to work and wanted to have a job, they held on to this last straw, but they failed them, nothing ever happened in that factory. This is the region where the Hortobágy lands were distributed to close family members of pro-government politicians and otherwise destroyed economies; how, I think, it is worth a little tour. In the past, the land we are talking about paid a serious rent for those who use it, and then after the possibility of providing land-based support for EU support, our accession, this has become an opportunity for many people, and in recent years it has become specifically part of the economic forces close to Fidesz, the 160,000 HUF non-refundable grant, which is, by the way, a hectare of land. The European Union's agriculture and livestock support process has therefore made this very attractive, at such a level that large entrepreneurs such as Lőrinc Mészáros appeared in the area and took up a lot of land, and it was important for him to be here, not only alone, but also, for example, the secretary of the Mayor of Berettyóújfalu, who could be a landowner and user alongside Lőrinc Mészáros, who is now receiving EU support as a goldfish farm worker. And here are the sheep farmers I've met, whose livelihood the land has been for so far, because everything was there for the production of their animal feed, and then these lands were taken away, and by the way, farms were on the edge of the stump. [[22.40]] By the way, people I mentioned earlier came to land, while farms that were otherwise linked to their lifestyle, to their daily activities, to their occupations that had existed for decades, and they had taken this land away from them. It was not in one case that they were made land-runner by the fact that animal farming could have worked economically here, and it has now come to the point that, by the way, sheep-breeding alone means expenditure. By the way, last year there was at least the possibility of buying, and this has now ceased, and while the European Union explicitly supports this activity in other states, the Ministry, the state, has not shown any movement or assistance in Hungary. Thus, all that was previously the result of livestock farming, this wool, standing in bales, cannot be sold by those involved. The state has failed people whose land has not only been taken, but also those whose livestock opportunities are essentially abolished or eliminated. Consider the bell ringing for those who need help. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2020-10-19-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, will be following:. The International School of Debrecen, built and operated by public funds, which can now address his speech after the agenda as the child preserver of the tight economic and political elite. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, at this late hour. Well, iron circles of wood, we used to say when we met something very circumstantial. Well, it's just like that. In Debrecen, the now famous Fidesz elite teacher, many say, is more of a child preserver, as it is a pampered education of parents, and this is the International School of Debrecen. The state educational institution, which looks like a private school in all its tastes, was built in the best, most beautiful area of Debrecen, in the heart of the Great Forest, with a public money of about HUF 4 billion. We are talking about a public school where a hired van fleet brings and carries children, where, unlike the state-floored school, students are protected by special armed guard service, electric gates, photocell doors, and high bars at the parking lot. As it stands, 114 students are being protected at more than 500 places in a school in such a large area that these children can play hide-and-seek there. The luxurious school operating in a picturesque environment and equipped with all the existing educational and technical tools, despite the fact that it was built on public funds, and the municipality of Debrecen otherwise supports the operation of it by approximately HUF 230 million per year, is only available for the narrow economic and political fidesz elite, due to the annual tuition fee of HUF 3-5 million. Although the fact that the Fidesz leadership of Debrecen, under the pressure of DK, introduced a scholarship system that could in principle give families in Debrecen unable to pay their tuition fees the opportunity to send their children to this institution by means of an appropriate tender. I'm telling you, it's supposed to be, because out of 114 students, there's a total of four students from the Debrecen scholarship program. Of course, the scholarship was issued without any special publicity, in case the families of Debrecen missed attention, but still 30 valid applications were received, so that's all we could find out. We have asked several times for an insight into the application process, since it is incomprehensible that from 30 valid applications, it is possible that only 4 students from Debrecen have become students based on what principles. Cynical information and ultimately lakonic rejection of the city leadership were always the answer. But, please, why would this be any different in a political course where verbal plebeians are the masters of the country? I'm telling you, they're verbal plebeians, because the ministers, the State Secretarys, but the Prime Minister himself has become so addicted to luxury that it's almost customary for them to go to lunch on a helicopter or watch a football game with luxuries. But it's no different in Debrecen, because the hermetic isolation, as I said, in a luxurious school protected by guards, was of interest to several Fidesz political families, including the mayor's children. While the Orbán government spends less than 50 thousand forints a month teaching a child, this number is the multiple of this at Debrecen's luxury school, 141 thousand forints. And there's nothing to sugarcoat. The taxpayers in Debrecen, we Debrecen, pay for the luxury school of multi-billion-dollar fidesz children, who, in addition to the social and economic crisis caused by the epidemic, were driven to the brink by the Orbán government, rather than leaving us on the trench, but kicked us into the trench. Debrecen has now decided to take out more than 1.4 billion loans, otherwise it has also withdrawn the urban operating expenses that would affect the inhabitants of Debrecen. Of course, no, I don't have to say it, and I will say it again, where the mayor and the children of many fidesz economic operators, politicians, go, of course, without harming the budget. So now hand-in-hand, please, 200,000 debrecens support the mayor's and some of the fidesz billionaires' children from their paid-up tax forints and our 1.4 billion forints of credit. Fidesz took it from the poor again and gave it to the rich. But I must say, I have some bad news: in 2022, this school will open its doors to every young student in Debrecen. Thank you so much for listening. [[László Varju and Dr. Csaba Gyure applaud.]]
u2020-10-19-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, will be following:. Continue to speak after the agenda with the title 'Delivery of Democracy'. Here you go.
u2020-10-19-284	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, where to next, where to next? We see that since 2010 the Orbán government has been constantly seeking to subdue the courts as an independent branch of power, constantly taking steps since 2010, and I would like to list these steps here. The first was the unlawful removal of Andras Baka, President of the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Court. Later, the Strasbourg court also declared this unlawfulness, and the Hungarian State had to pay very serious compensation. At the same time, there was the forced retirement of the judges, which was ordered by the then two-thirds government, which clearly aimed at intimidation of the judges, saying that we could do anything. Then he gave the OBH too much power to do so at the expense of the court's self-management system. Then he appointed Hando, head of the OBH, head of the National Court Office, Tünde Hando, the wife of one of the leading Fidesz politicians, who then regularly opposed the opinions of the judicial self-government agencies, which caused quite a small international scandal. The following was an even greater international scandal, an attempt to establish an independent administrative court or an independent supreme administrative court, where judges would have been directly dependent on the Minister of Justice and would have virtually withdrawn the administrative areas from the judicial system and even brought political judgments. Fortunately, because of the great international protest, they could not do so. However, the Orbán government followed the principle of slow water washes the shore and changed the strategy to date: it made a decision that the Constitutional Courts could now be appointed judges with such a simple decision, which the President of the Republic will automatically take. Why did you do that? So that the constitutional judges can parachute directly into the Mansion and appoint them as council judges, but, as today's state shows, not only as council leaders, but also as president of the Curia. This was presented in a very stylish manner today, as President János Áder, with his transcript dated 5 October 2020, nominated Mr Zsolt András Varga as President of the Curia. [[22.50]] In this connection, today's decision was taken, during which the Fidesz majority, the two-thirds majority, appointed Dr. Zsolt András Varga as President of the Curia on 1 January 2021. The fact that this system did not take into account the decision or opinion of the self-management organisation of the courts also indicates that the National Judicial Council heard András Varga on 9 October, and did not support his nomination to the President of the Curia by 1 vote in favour, 13 against and without abstention. The reasons for this are that he has never carried out a case-law, has no court-martial experience, and has no history in the field of judicial administration. According to the OBT summary, András Varga Zsolt does not meet the expectation that a person independent of other branches of power will be placed at the top of the court organisation, who also appears impartial to an external observer. So the person of Zsolt Varga doesn't seem to be impartial to an outside viewer at all, because he never did any judgmental work, he was now a constitutional judge, and before that he was the deputy of the Attorney General, but he never worked as a judge. Since the change of regime, no person who has not previously worked as a judge has ever been appointed to the Supreme Court, but the NER system is characterised by this decision to make the same decision that has not been made in democracy in Hungary. But let's see who was last appointed in this way, that he did not come from within a court organization: in 1953 Erik Molnár, who came to the government first on the proposal of Mátyás Rákosi, then to this position, and in 1954 to József Domokos. Here's the parallel between the NER system and the Rákosi system. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-10-19-285	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
