u2020-12-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 23rd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Steinmetz will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. To speak before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We turned to the last month of 2020, so it's time to look back on this year. If I had to summarize briefly, I would say that 2020 was the year of revolution, the beginning of the end of the Fidesz regime. In recent years, more and more people have come to me asking how long this nightmare will last, when the Orbáns' unlimited reign can finally be overthrown. For a very long time, I had to say that as long as the opposition was fragmented, as long as the international economic environment is so favourable, and as long as there is no international pressure on the Orbán regime, it is certainly not, but that we must work on what is our competence to change processes. This has succeeded, in part, in changing the world economy and the international political environment, and in part in the results of the opposition, which have brought about this turn. Let's start from behind. The international political environment changed significantly in the second half of 2020. Orbán's main ally, Donald Trump, or more specifically Donald Trump, whose number one cheerleader, Viktor Orbán, failed, was a very well-deserved failure, and it also means that an important bastion of Orbán's international support system has fallen. We know what America can do. All we need to remember is that they just banned a few corrupt Fidesz politicians and businessmen, and that's what the press was talking about for weeks and months. To put it mildly, it didn't do the Fidesz reputation any good. But more importantly, what is happening in the European Union. We see that Viktor Orbán drew a card to 19 in the windmill fight with the Union, and he did not come in. The veto to halt the seven-year budget and the recovery fund for the virus has wiped out all goodwill towards him and his system. It is no coincidence that Viktor Orbán's two most important foundations for Europe have simply deserted. Only in the last few days has Péter Gottfried, who was the EU's chief advisor to the Prime Minister, and József Szájer, the most important MEP to Fidesz, stood up because they see that this position that Viktor Orbán now represents is untenable. Although we oppositionists have said that Orbán is constantly crossing red lines with his peacock dance about this Union, it seems very likely that he has crossed that famous red line with others, so there will be no turning back from here, there will be serious retortions, and that is the case. This will not hit the Hungarian people, it will hit Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz government. Similarly, the international economic environment has changed. Obviously, no one wished for this. The serious pandemic that has reached Hungary and virtually all the countries on earth has ruined the economy. The important lesson for this Hungarian government is that when faced with a real crisis and not an imaginary enemy, they do very badly. They are very poor in health epidemic management and are very poor in dealing with the economic and social crisis. This is now perfectly clear to the Hungarian people: when it comes not to dealing with the Residémon or György Soros, Viktor Orbán and his government will fail. And the third factor that depended on us was to eliminate the disunity of the opposition, to put an end to it, to divide and conquer it. Orbán's policy, which Viktor Orbán could continue for ten years. This has happened, the opposition has united its forces, declared that it will run with joint candidates in the 2022 elections, said that it will run with a joint candidate for Prime Minister in the 202 elections, that it will sign up to implement a joint programme with each other, and that there is a unity and solidarity that should be self-evident in this regime. We have signed with each other to overthrow this government and eliminate the regime, the unjust and corrupt regime that has been built. That's what we're going to ask the voters for, and that's what the latest polls say he already has majority support for. These trends will continue in 2021 and 22 and you will fail, and it will also be a very, very well-deserved failure. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-2	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-01-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, For the last ten years, but I could also say that over the last 20 years, a lot of people have been rooting for this government to fail, and I could even say that this country is not going to succeed. Among them are foreign actors, large international moneymen, Brussels politicians and left-wing party leaders. We can say the same to them now: the Hungarian voters say the final word about who will lead Hungary, and they were the ones who said the final word in 2010, 2014 and 2018, on all three occasions the right centre community was empowered by a huge majority to govern, and in 2022 they will have the decisive word. Now it tells us a lot that we're in the middle of an epidemic and what you do: the 2022 election campaign. That's what they're thinking. It's not the country, it's not the jobs, it's not the protection of people's lives, it's the 2022 election campaign and the power struggle. And when you talk about winning odds, it also means that everything you've said about dictatorship is a big fake, a big bluff. If I recall correctly, as you said, you said that obstacles have been removed here in the last few months. They didn't eliminate the obstacles, they eliminated their own principles when they joined forces against those they had previously defined themselves against, against whom they protested, who were Nazid, and now they stand up together, even if their candidate debuts the capital. So much for your principles. As for the specifics, let's see what happens where the left steers. Here we are in the middle of a difficult situation, all over Europe they are thinking about how to remove burdens from businesses, and what the Hungarian left does: squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. He's taking the same crappy recipe off the shelf. The IMF isn't here anymore, but it's like they asked for it. In the first district, the hosts are being sabotaged, in the seventh district. in the district, a drastic increase in the parking fee, reduced the pay of the kindergarten teachers, but Gyurcsány's tax criminal lawyer has a million-dollar commission, the VIII. In the district, health workers, policemen and firefighters are being kicked out of their apartments, and in Kispesten, the market vendors are being sabotaged by the scandal. And does City Hall stop this process? No, you're not. They're thinking about a drastic tax increase. It also shows that if they are not fighting the nonexistent demon of the government, they are planning to raise taxes. Now, this isn't gonna be a job, it's not gonna get out, and it's not gonna be a stronger city, it's a dead end, come out of it! [[9.10]] And if they're really worried about public money, because at times, it's like that's what we're feeling, they're gonna start a rescue mission as soon as possible, in the capital city. The hard-to-believe thing happened that a company that didn't exist at the time of the announcement won a multi-hundred million-million-dollar bus tender. How could that happen? [[Miklós Soltész: Shame!]] A large portal on the left also wrote yesterday that this newborn company has neither employees nor buses. [[Miklós Soltés applauds.]] Maybe they don't have any buses, and they trusted this company in the capital. Do you believe that? [[Miklós Soltész: Amazing!]] How can this happen? Now we understand what they mean by basic income: they provide hundreds of millions of offshore bullshit. That's the basic income. [[Miklós Soltész: Talk about this!]] And as the days pass, serious questions multiply. But the most important thing is how they could have entrusted such a company. If they really think it's important to protect public funds, they take the liberty of reporting to the public. Do it because more and more people are waiting. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What is more important? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-01-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On November 28, 152 people died because of the coronal virus, 6268 patients were registered as new infected. On 29 November, 6819 of our fellow countrymen were diagnosed with a coronal virus infection; 156 patients died. On 30 November, the number of infected patients identified increased by 5595 and 151 were killed. This increased the number of deceased to 4823. These are the sad and implacable facts about the corona virus epidemic in Hungary. And it is important to stress that behind each number there is a family father, a family mother, a grandparent, a child, a good friend or a good colleague. As the number of diseases increases relentlessly and drastically, and unfortunately, the personal and family tragedies increase, the government is busy organizing hundreds of billions of taxpayers to fidesz private foundations, which is the privatisation of public money before the 2022 elections. Clearly, the government is terrified of losing its power and is terrified of being held accountable, which I say will be inevitable. The Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, who is also the chairman of the Board of Trustees of one of these foundations, was somehow very narrow in the debate of the law on the privateisation of public property, but it is clear and visible that from sailing ports to castles, from hotels to guard bases, and, of course, to MOL shares, the government and the majority of the government provide amazing wealth to these foundations. In fact, they go further, because they are now handing out public money to ministry-owned companies in another 445 billion-dollar package, not helping Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and people in crisis with this money. Why should this great effort, if not again, be financed by Lurch Mészáros, who fired 850 people in the event of the spring virus wave and received nearly 18 billion from the government? Once again, so that you do not forget: as soon as we have the opportunity, everyone involved in the privatisation of public money will be held accountable, and we will recover the Hungarian people's money from both the stromans and the foundations to which you are organizing this money. And even more facial toaster, what you're doing right now, this is public finance, because it's quite clear that, among other things, this money has been paid from its hard work to public finances by people who are now lying on hospital beds and expect you and your family to use this money to protect, protect, and heal their families, and to help their families who have lost a lot of their jobs. Unfortunately, this is not what is happening, but the bulldozer of government economic policy continues to rumble unchanged, filling large multinational companies and national capital banks with money. Moreover, even public services are put at risk by the planned suspension of the trade tax. Basically, in the middle of a medical emergency, they risk endangering the supply of drinking water, basic health care or public lighting. And from the Demeter Szilárd phenomenon, you can see that there is a conscious scandal in order to cover up the real problem, that the government is completely incapable of dealing with the crisis. But don't think it's a distraction from reality, it's not working anymore. It's exactly what people expect from the government to solve the current situation, but it seems they're incapable of doing so. But at least don't always hide behind someone or something, but face responsibility, stand up bravely. Instead, they cowardly play with people's emotions and sigh that we want everyone to meet without restrictions at Christmas. Would you like to? What is this, a wish show? Perhaps we should have made in time the effective and wise decisions that were otherwise missed, with which there would be no question that people could spend Christmas together. This is the only thing they are afraid to admit to the Hungarian people. And obviously they are not too happy in their communication staff that the Hungarian people are increasingly seeing what is going on and that they are unable to take meaningful and effective measures to deal with the epidemic. Maybe we should have worked. Because you know that if Hungarian families cannot celebrate Christmas together, it will be largely because of your failure. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] In view of all this, there is a right [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The question is: what is more important to you, the people [[The president's ringing again.]] Or is it fear of losing power?
u2020-12-01-6	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. [[István Szilárd Németh: Poor Bence!]] You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, For months, Hungary has been waiting for the Hungarian opposition to try to help fight the corona virus epidemic. All we hear is false news, camuvides, and various accusations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you look around Europe and look around the world, you can see that every country is fighting a coronal virus epidemic, against its health threats and against its economic dangers. And thank God we don't hear news about Hungary, such as what you hear from France, honourable Member, that if a nurse's test is positive, you will be obliged to continue to volunteer as a coronal virus positive. We do not hear that patients are being taken from Hungary to another country, but there are examples of this in many countries in Western Europe, France to Belgium, because they are so unable to provide their own healthcare that they have been transported to another country, Germany. But he also does not see, as in many other European countries, that there are patients lying in the corridors completely vulnerable, because in Hungary there are beds for all patients, there are adequate staff for all patients, doctors, nurses, and all patients have, if they need it, a ventilator, because we are also beating in hospital beds and ventilators. You say that the Hungarian government is not prepared. How could he have better prepared himself from hospital beds, or better prepared from respirators, if we were podiumists, if you looked at the European ranking, honourable Member? He didn't see anything in Hungary like in Italy that patients don't even get to the hospital, but treat them in the hospital parking lot, in their own car, and bring the equipment that helps patients breathe to get air. Not in the hospital, not even in the hospital hallway, but in the hospital parking lot. In other countries, treatment areas for milder patients have already been arranged in hotel rooms. You can also see that in other countries people can see how to test themselves on educational films, because the state has outsourced testing to people. He does not see anything in Hungary, either in Belgium or in other countries, when doctors and nurses protest because they do not receive any help from the government. Nor can you see in Hungary, as in Belgium, that they are asking doctors with asymptomatic coronary viruses to continue working. Nor can it see, as in other countries, or Central European countries, that the airport has already been converted into a temporary hospital. Nor can you see that in some places the only way to get a ventilator is if another patient has unfortunately died and his ventilator is released. Or you can't see that they're already setting up mobile morgues that you've seen in several countries, Europe or America. You can't see what you see in Greece, where they take patients to the capital with separate trains. Nor can you see, as in Spain, that the nurses' dining room is being transformed to care for patients there, and that it takes a more serious patient 7 to 10 days to get to the hospital. And you can't see, as in other Western European countries, that they're already picking up cancer patients because of the strain of the coronal virus, some are being treated, some are not being able to provide for them without capacity. Compared to this, Hungary is a successful and effective defender, both in the number of people who have died and in the number of people who have been infected, if I look at it as a proportion of the population, Hungary is one of the more effective defence countries for 100,000 people. [[9.20]] So much for the fight against the epidemic, thank you all for helping us, and we ask the opposition not to interfere with the fake news or the fake news. As regards the issue of foundations, honourable Member, over the last ten years we have managed to create a stable economy that does not need either the IMF or any other external assistance, and they do not tell us how to shape our economic policy. As a result, Hungary has created a stable economy, wages have been increasing for years, taxes have been reduced for years, the number of people suffering from deprivation has been decreasing for years. Hungary has been able to stabilise both economically and socially during this decade and is not as dependent on external actors as it was before. At the same time, in the next ten years, our plan with Hungary is to make it even stronger, and to have a few sectors in which we can break out, we can be world leaders or world leaders from a medium-sized country in Central Europe in certain areas, and we see this in universities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When you attack that universities receive large wealth from us, from which we expect world-class training and research and development, you are attacking Hungary's ability to achieve a performance that can bring Hungary to the top of the world in certain sectors, in certain sectors. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right!]] Because if they succeed in helping universities to make a very large contribution, with money they have not seen since the regime change, so that they can bring their research to the top of the world, they can drag the whole country with them. But you are not interested in Hungary's success, you want Hungary to be vulnerable, you want Hungary to be told from abroad what to do [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and that is why they do not support the possibility for universities, using the protection provided by the Fundamental Law, to bring Hungary all over the world in certain sectors for the next ten years. You are against this, I see, and I am very sorry for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group, asked for a speech on the topic of current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian economy is falling, the government debt has increased by HUF 12 000 billion over the 12 years, and the HUF has fallen by HUF 100 as before. That's a great performance, but let's even look at the details. We have sometimes had the highest inflation rate in the European Union. According to experts, real unemployment today is at least 8 percent of the government's bail-out package for billions is fake, insignificant, annoying nothing. Without capital reserves, small and medium-sized enterprises, hundreds of thousands of workers suffer, struggle, because they do not receive real help from the state, and thus recovery will be impossible or much more difficult for them. I'll tell you a specific story about the restaurant that was set up this spring by giving him 30 percent wage support, and then when the country is closed again, in the event that he's no longer in revenue, and he's forced not to let people go, and they don't give him any support. So what do you think will happen to this restaurant? This is a typical example of the panicked government rushing and deepening the crisis itself, putting companies in a difficult position. Orbán, who once spoke about the fact that he considered the fight against sovereign debt as a war of independence, now took responsibility for the fact that on the party-state radio he announced that the country had taken on foreign exchange loans worth HUF 900 billion this year. It wasn't the last one this year, and I'm afraid the last one isn't the first one, and it's not the last. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Which is it now?]] But what's really going on here? There is no wage support not to be dismissed; there is no unemployment allowance of six to nine months if they have already been laid off; they do not even dare to accept that if those taking part in the protection are sick, they will receive a 100 percent pension; there is no family allowance increase and there is no allowance for small pensioners. But then what did you spend the money for, honourable government representatives? Because in order to finance this, the nine percent deficit now recognised by the Minister, additional loans must be taken out by the government that declared a great defence war against the rising government debt, against the growing government deficit, against the weak forint, and failed to win any of these. Viktor Orbán and his government will be remembered as a passing horror in Hungary, when all families, all children, will still pay for the loans you have taken in. Their alleged struggle against sovereign debt failed so that it was never true, because this year, this year, it will be more than ten years in proportion to GDP: the Orbán government took over 20 thousand billion in debt in 2010, now, by the end of 2020, the 20 thousand billion became more than 35 thousand billion; this is more than 57 percent increase in HUF. If we add to this the three thousand billion-billion-dollar pension savings that people have been blackmailed by party state threats due to the supposed reduction of public debt, then the situation is even worse. They're government colleagues. In a ten-year, unbroken international economic environment, with huge EU funds and hundreds of thousands of forints returned abroad, public debt will again be above 80 per cent by the end of the year. Let us say this calmly: Viktor Orbán's economic policy, the economic policy of the uncut right hand, has failed at the first moment, because for you it was a comfortable, money-spending, grating and trying to cover it up, instead of taking responsibility for the fate of ten million people for ten years. By analysing the economic consequences of the epidemic threat, you were initially prepared to increase this year, then to reduce 3-5-7 percent later, and now you admit you are at 9 percent, around which will be the deficit, to which you will take out new loans to finance it. Have you talked about the last eight years of social security in Hungary? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Today, more and more people see it: despite all the lying, people's money, the last ten years have been the real culprit. Thank you for your attention. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2020-12-01-10	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr János Schanda, who responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The truth is that there is something to be appreciated in that you have the courage, the courage and the ability to stand up in Parliament and, as a representative of the Gyurcsány Party, try to lecture the national civilian government on borrowing, unemployment, employment, social security and all the issues that you have been talking about here for the last five minutes. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw your attention to the reality, to the fact that if you have forgotten what your political and economic performance under your governance was, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian families will not forget this. Honourable Congressman, There is no other party in this country, there is no other political alliance in this country, there are no other Members of Parliament who have made it part of their political agenda to take a month's wages from doctors, among other things. [[Miklós Soltész: Disgraceful!]] Take a month's wages from nurses to shut down hospitals to take a month's wages from teachers, civil servants to cut pensions, reduce family allowances. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tuition fee! Nacsa Lőrinc: And you voted for this! Szilárd István Németh: Invite the hospital daily allowance!]] Honourable Member, it was you who pushed hundreds of thousands of millions of people into social uncertainty in Hungary. Mr President, it was you, Mr President, under whom unemployment has risen sharply and employment has fallen spectacularly. Honourable Member, and in addition to the austerity measures that cripple people's lives and their daily reality, you have taken on the IMF loan, a huge loan that the world has not seen. In addition, this loan was taken out in exchange for new restrictions, with corrupt and inadequate governance, financially destroying Hungary and making the country a debtor slave to external organizations, the IMF. [[Miklós Soltész: Shame!]] [[9.30]] Honourable Congressman, The fact is, then, to stand up in the National Assembly and to take account of the National-Citizen Government, it is completely uncredited and, moreover, false. [[Miklós Soltész: He's lying!]] Honourable Congressman, The thing is, you're trying to capitalize on political capital by trying to distract the public with more and more fake news, more and more fake news, more and more half information that you don't have a sane proposal, and you're doing everything you can to stop the government from defending itself. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw your attention to this, because you are now raising the issue of bond issuance several times: this bond issue shows precisely that the Hungarian economy is on stable footing. We are able to issue bonds, to obtain funds, to finance the country without having to go to international organisations, to the IMF, and to engage in debt slavery. Honourable Congressman, While, in your time, no one else was willing to finance the country, until in your time, thanks to your catastrophic governance, it was possible to connect the country to the IMF's ventilator, at present, to issue bonds under favourable conditions in Hungary, and thus also to ensure the important and long-term developments necessary for Hungary's competitiveness. Honourable Congressman, Besides, you were talking about unemployment, employment. Because, Congressman, you know very well that, at the end of your governance, unemployment was around 12 percent, our governance, even in this difficult situation, is well below 5% in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, and we are at the forefront of the European Union. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Congressman! Accept the facts, because not only do we say this, this is what the data shows, this is what the numbers show. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, has applied for equal treatment? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-01-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I would like to draw your attention to one of the extremely serious, in many cases unfortunately murderous consequences of the current epidemic. This phenomenon associated with Covid is the greatest threat in people's homes between 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. Yeah, it's about domestic violence. When the night curfew was imposed, members of the government probably didn't realize that this was a nightmare for many, especially women and children. Think about it: the victims are locked up with their attackers, running away, running away, hiding. I am aware that when taking measures against the epidemic, there is no special rule for these situations. However, helping victims of domestic violence is not only an opportunity but also an obligation. These victims, as I mentioned, are typically women and children, vulnerable people. When quarantine occurs, the number of abuse increases dramatically throughout the world. According to Tímea Boglacsik, director of the National Crisis Management and Information Telephone Service, this spring the number of people asking for telephone assistance doubled in Hungary. Although no new data is available, this is certainly just the tip of the iceberg, since not everyone dares to ask for help, not everyone knows that there is such a possibility at all. In other countries, therefore, information campaigns are used to help those in difficulty. Victims of violence can signal that they are in trouble in hypermarkets or drugstores, and they need help. In France, for example, the Chamber of Pharmacy agreed with the government that if someone goes to the pharmacy to ask for help, those working there will notify the authorities. There was no such campaign here in Hungary, and unfortunately, there is no intention of any victim-helping government. Now, even in spring, the epidemic is even more serious, and Christmas and the end of the year are upon us. The Fidesz government is happy to say that they're really doing their best, but that's not true. The truth is that even the government was willing to acknowledge the existence of domestic violence under social pressure after repeated family tragedies. Then some crisis centers were opened and some Btk. adjustments were made, but these can only change the treatment of crimes committed. You didn't touch the root of the problem, even though preventing sin is always better than dealing with it afterwards. But there's no campaign, no information program. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] The Fidesz government, let alone under Covid, but the last ten [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] In a long year, he has not done anything to make it widely clear: physical and psychological abuse, material maiming and threats are not ordinary, but a criminal sin. In this area, only the Fidesz propaganda is doing well, which sounds at full volume that everything is fine here. Fidesz is a party to singing about broken bones, sexist comments, and little girls. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What?!]] If it hadn't been clear so far, the recent Covid epidemic has shown this very plastically. To say the last thing, the brutal expression of verbal violence against women has recently been experienced by Attorney General Judit Varga. I mention this because there is no place for political selection on this issue, only zero tolerance is what is acceptable. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Péter Gothar! Henry Snow!]] That is why all kinds of violence must be decisively combated. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz and KDNP, You're in 2002 They're failing. But what about the women and children that have just been abused? The victims don't have a year and a half to wait for a more humane government to come. Protecting the physical safety and life of women and children will not be delayed. We need measures, we need programs, we need preventive action. There are good examples, you just have to follow them. The responsibility of government is still yours. Please act. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2020-12-01-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-01-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's a much more serious subject than to dissect it and reflect only on what was dissonant in your comment. However, allow me to reflect on a few things where, for example, you use phrases like Christmas. We, members of the civil side, view Christmas as a holy holiday. This statement may be understandable for the metropolitans, but it is one of the most important family holidays in the life of Hungarian families overall. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right!]] So this is to be said that this is some kind of crisis for families, it's a total kick-off from reality, and I'm gonna have to decline that! You also attacked our party family with regard to our attitude towards women. As I recall, you had a party president who was now the party president of DK, dreaming of replacing old wives. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I don't know if he's gonna keep this plan going. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Love campaign!]] But it's definitely about the deepest disrespect. The other thing you mentioned about Minister of Justice Judit Varga was that he was also under attack. The congresswoman forgot to add that they were part of your Facebook entries as comments, and they were deleted only after we indicated that they were deleted at all. It's a bit of a Pharisee to bring this in here in front of the House. I'm sorry I mentioned that. Then I would really like to come to what this government has done in this area, and what you have failed to do or have not done, and that has to be added. One thing I would like to make clear is that they are always talking about domestic violence, as if the family were a workshop where women and children are beaten up and nothing else could be done. In the Hungarian legal system, we are talking about relationship violence, precisely because many people do not live in families or live in families that are not complete or mosaic families, and they are protected by the law, even if they do not qualify as families under the law. So we will provide much wider protection than your general statements or even your degraving statements about the family would do. But I want you to have some of the facts about where we've come from between 2010 and 2020. There were virtually crisis centers, 12 in 2010, with 20 numbers today. We've been able to raise the number of secret safe houses from 1 to 8 in the last ten years. The support for these has increased by a hundred percent over the past period. [[9.40]] There is a system of half-way exit houses, the number of which has been increased from 4 to 21. I think these figures are a strong expression of the trend the government has in relation to this problem. At the end of 2016, a car with a budget of HUF 126 million and tangible IT tools were purchased, which also contribute to this goal. With a €1 billion 850 million, we announced a Commissioner's facility for the complex development of the care system; the 5 crisis centers, 7 shelters, 15 half-way exit houses and 7 crisis clinics benefit from this framework. å A protective net for families has been launched, in which 17 applicant organisations are doing this work right now. So it is not just about remedying problems, but it is also about trying to prevent these phenomena. The promotion of the number is working, which has already been repeated in five campaigns, and in 2020, we managed to reach those who needed help by 9367 phones. We have repeatedly tightened Btk., which, by the way, has not been supported in recent years. And if we are to commemorate the comparison between Hungarian and foreign states, if I remember correctly, the congresswoman also had a remark that you were harassed in Brussels; I hope that since you arrived home, such a phenomenon has not occurred, and this is comparable, the relationship between the two countries and the phenomenon that when you speak, you are speaking in a totally hypocritical way on these issues; it is against your own experience, Madam Congresswoman. Of course, those who are in such a difficult situation deserve all the help, but to accuse the government, the professionals, the organizations and crisis centres that operate in this area, I do not think it will hold up, so it is deeply reprehensible. And there is also a working group on family law within the Ministry, which has processed the whole phenomenon in a 170-page material, and this work is being done, and the congresswoman knows very well from the answers to their written questions [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't know where this is going. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-16	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, Vice-President of the Parliament, spoke with the title: "A Plan that is dangerous." You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-12-01-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Viktor Orbán has a dangerous plan, and every infant can see it, because the Prime Minister is preparing to lead us out of the European Union [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik!]] and that strategic shift (Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik!) , which was decided by our country at the time of St. Stephen [[Németh Szilárd István: That's tough, isn't it? Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] that he would join Christianity and Europe [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] trying to reverse it in a direction which, in our opinion, is extremely negative for all Hungarian citizens [[Németh Szilárd István: This is very dangerous!]] and deprives them of that prosperity [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Medic!]] and freedom, which has been for thirty years [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Harder, Koloman, harder!]] Since the change of regime, we have all expected the current Hungarian political elite. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Aren't you campaigning to become a member or free?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] try to reverse it in a direction that, in our opinion, is extremely negative for all Hungarian citizens (István Németh Szilárd: This is very dangerous!) (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Doctor!) and from the freedom that was given thirty years ago (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Harder, Koloman, Harder!) Since the change of regime, we have all expected the current Hungarian political elite. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Aren't you campaigning to become members or free? * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * But let's face it (Dr. Bence Rétvári interrupts.) But let's face it, I'm taking the Prime Minister's advice. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'm not listening to what you're saying, I'm listening to what you're doing, because if I listen to what you're saying, then we can see that last time, I think we declared war against Spider-Man, next time it's Batman, then it's Superman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You were able to enhance it! You've been able to increase it!]] Which the fidesz stupidity factory is pushing up, isn't it? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Harder, Koloman!]] in Fidesz Propagandamedia [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Captain America missed!]] So let's face it, I'm looking at what's happening. [[Interjection in the ranks of the governing parties: Look!]] in the Prime Minister's environment. [[Interjection and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What we see is that practically the last of the hooks leave Viktor Orbán, who tied him to the European Union just a little bit longer. Péter Gottfried flees to the Monetary Council; József Szájer resigns as the last person to be considered a politician in the European People's Party; Tamás Deutsch will not be taken into account in an obvious and understandable way, since let's say that his style and his message are a little too far from the European cultural circle, so let's face it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Cohn-Bendit! The Cohn-Bendit!]] Moreover, the rule of law and the rule of law are not some kind of liberal mite, and it has nothing to do with migration, my honourable fellow Members, because we have always acted on behalf of the People's Party Jobbik against illegal migration. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We didn't notice!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We didn't notice!]] The rule of law means so much (Dr. Bence Rétvári: We didn't notice!) "The rule of law means, and it is a truly conservative European value, which we stand for, that there is no fidesz potentate [[Miklós Soltés applauds. The president's ringing the bell.]] who can go there and take away the land, business, career and workplace of Hungarian citizens, as unfortunately happens regularly in our country in 2020. That is what the rule of law means, which is why you are afraid of the rule of law criteria; otherwise, there is reason to fear an examination carried out at the same level in all EU Member States. Let's keep going. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tell me something nice about the Soros.]] This process seems to be planning not only to leave the formal European Union, but also to move away from the European cultural circle. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] Szilárd Demeter, whom I called in January for nothing to do in Hungarian public life, because he financed a program in which they joked about the Germans' elimination, so it continued, so it was not a one-off, so I will delete myself from Facebook; no, Szilárd Demeter should erase himself from Hungarian public life, but lightningly, because in January we said that because of this program that made jokes about the Germans' elimination, he should not be in Hungarian public life. He now compares Europe to a gas chamber, and then on Karc radio he tells us that Germanism is completely untalented and can only be a uber-Nazi or uber-liberal people. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's face it, I see Szilárd Demeter in his frustrated and uncouth way. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Gergely Kulcsár where is he?]] He didn't learn much about, say, general German ghost giants like Schopenhauer or Goethe or Schiller, so I wouldn't bother you. I would rather say that many of the 13 martyrs of Arad were German, Sándor Márai spoke German with his family at home, because he was German, Count Klebelsberg Kuno was German. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Haynau too!]] Your Szilárd Demeter, Honourable Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spits on these memories, since there are no two Fidesz, there are no two voices; an orbánist propagandaist says what Viktor Orbán thinks, thereby admitting that we are saying goodbye not only from the European Union but also slowly from the European cultural circle. Jobbik as a Christian Social People's Party [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] as the only right-wing and civil and conservative party of the democratic opposition [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You object to this plan. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's stay in Europe together with the good Hungarians, let's not let Orbán laugh at the end! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda, Secretary of State, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that it is difficult to respond here to the newest speech by the united left. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Mr President, the fact is that you have raised a lot of issues and I suggest that we go through them, but let me say before that you have, by the way, written a report to the European Council as an independent rapporteur in which you have shown the freedom of the Academy and the autonomy of Hungarian higher education institutions in a negative way, in which you have supported the Soros University. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman laughs.]] He also stood up to protect the genders. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman and Dr. Bence Rétvári intervene.]] and he did all this by proudly proclaiming himself, by coming from the university sphere to the country's house, and this past, as well as Jobbik's past, was also thrown into the corner, with a noble simplicity to report his own colleagues to the European Council. This is particularly repulsive, by the way, and all that you have said, given your personal past and your personal past, because a few years ago it was the Jobbik that set the flag of the European Union on fire. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It was you who burned an EU flag. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: He threw it out the window Gaudi-Nagy!]] Congressman, you're in that faction. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] The President of Jobbik at the time called the President of the European Commission a hypocrite and noted that the EU had done nothing before 2010 when the country was disbanded by robbery, or when their banks had driven people into foreign exchange loans traps, or once again a quote from you. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Not from me!]] It turns out that one of our prime ministers is puffy, the other one is D209, and the third one is a complete idiot. That's what you said a few years ago. [[9.50]] Congressman, you are now standing up here in Parliament and speaking on the left of Virtigli, and entering into a political alliance with all those against whom your political alliance has been formed. Congratulations. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Honourable Congressman, Ceterum censeo you often quote this classic here in Parliament, after which Jobbik is better to leave the national, Christian, conservative, centre-right or socially sensitive adjective of your own identity, as you use these words, but it is also apparent from your speech that these words do not mean anything to you. To you, those words are nothing but a medal you can pin. In fact, you and you have only one purpose to be on the list of Gyurcsány funded by Soros. Honourable Congressman, You've done nothing but piss off the Soros flag [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] and pinned the Gyurcsány pin. (Development from Jobbik's ranks. ) Congressman, this is what you have done in the last few minutes. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Does anyone teach this nonsense?]] Honourable Congressman, The fact is that until now, we thought that one of Hungary's biggest reporters, Benedek Jávor, had already been very difficult to sink deeper than he did, there is nothing very low in depravity, but honourable Member, your work, which I mentioned earlier, proves that they have begun to rise up for this position, they have started to fight to acquire this position for themselves, giving up their own principles, throwing down the Hungarian national interests and values, they have turned to the real left-wing path. Honourable Congressman, Since you have mentioned other issues here, let us state that the European Heads of State and Government agreed on this summer. There was an agreement, and Hungary and Poland stick to this agreement. This agreement was not broken by us, but by George Soros's people in the European Parliament, who initiated a change in this earlier agreement, and we do not give our names to this agreement. Honourable Congressman, Europe should recognise, recognise the European Parliament, recognise in Brussels that we are dealing with a worldwide epidemic and not have ideological debates. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Member of the KDNP Group, vice-president of the Parliament, spoke before the agenda. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2020-12-01-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, It's Advent, a time of waiting, a time of hope. On Sunday, we lit the first candle of the advent wreath. We prepare for the festival, we look forward to its unconventional miracle, but at this time we still carry out the tasks of our daily lives, and therefore the joy of waiting is becoming increasingly difficult to live with crystal clear. Today, whether we look inside ourselves or if we look at the world around us, we have to face new challenges, for we are living in an age in which Christian people need to preserve not only their faith but also the created world and its fundamentals. Holy II. Pope John Paul has repeatedly talked about the importance of preserving Europe's Christian roots. These roots do exist, even though the references to Christianity have been banished from the preamble to the Constitution of the European Union by denying the founding fathers, even though the rejection of Christianity, the Christian heritage, has always resulted in a loss of soil. Europe's leadership has not studied in XX. From the example of the totalitarian dictatorships of the century, and he did not understand that as God's idea vanishes from society, it raises something else, another concept, to a transcendent level. We are witnessing this again today, in which, in the words of the Egyptian Jesuit monk Henri Boulad, moral relativism created as a result of the loss of Christian faith shows the reflection of a fragmented world. As a result of the constant external and internal attacks, Western civilization has now lost faith in itself. We've come to the point where what should be proud of is being listened to or explained with their hands. A good example of this is Christmas Eve, the day of Jesus'birth, and the preceding advent, which gradually loses its sacral character, is slowly not only emptying, emptying, and making it a mere time of sale, but also giving up the symbolism of some politicians who claim to be progressive, public figures, including the jazzed, the Christmas tree, and, of course, Jesus himself. CHAPTER XXI This is the biggest problem of Europe in the 20th century, which is the weakness of the identity crisis, which has provided an opportunity for more and more violent acts to take place after Christendom's displacement from public life. Today, the world is as if the leading countries of human rights do not even care that at least 250 to 300 million Christians suffer discrimination, humiliation, persecution in the world because of their faith. Today, it is no longer on the front page of newspapers if dozens of our fellow Christians are murdered every day for the confession of their Christian faith, unless it is somewhere in Western Europe. Sadly, the persecution of Christians in the territory of the European Union is causing more and more deaths. Let us not forget that with the latest terrorist act in Vienna, attacks threatening the foundations of our Jewish-Christian culture have already reached our border by 60 kilometers. Dear House, Last week, as part of the international initiative of the Red Wednesday, we remembered the red light of the church of the Erzsébet Bridge, the statue of St. Gellért and the four Christian churches. The martyrs of the century, Christians who were able to sacrifice their lives for their faith today. Neither can we give up our faith, our Christian culture, because if we remain weak in the fight, it is not the peaceful multiculturalism dreamed of by liberals and progressives, but first the submission and then the thawing of our country in a European or even a global jar, because at the same time, fellow Members, it is not possible to be nationalistic and globalist, just as Europe's Christian identity cannot be preserved by supporting migration and the spread of Islam. Today, the faith and determination of our ancestors must also give us all the strength to be able to preserve the Christian identity and culture of Europe and our country. The most important thing today is to support those who have already been affected by the epidemic and to help those who are working tirelessly to preserve our health in this extraordinary situation. Let's think of them for at least one thought, a prayer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-22	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, As above, it is written in one of Béla Hamvas' essays. And this year's Advent wait is an eloquent proof of the truth of this simple saying. Advent's first Sunday is the beginning of the church year of salvation. This fact is more than symbolic. Salvation begins with waiting, and according to the teaching, in the darkest month of the year, our only hope is in the birth of the Savior. If we look back on the last year, we can rightly say that we have had a difficult time. The last year began with hopeful expectation. We were right to think that Hungary would continue to build on the results of which all Hungarians could benefit in recent years. [[10.00]] However, the corona virus epidemic has reminded us inexorably: there are factors that we do not have power over. The master of history had other plans, and we had to learn to meet the new challenge. Even though the trials are not over yet, it is already apparent that Hungarian people and Hungary are taking a good exam in difficult times. Collaboration, measures taken in time, disciplined citizenship helped to control the epidemic, and the hope is that we can slowly begin to climb out of the pit. So the beginning of the church year always coincides with the darkest month of the year. This coincidence has a special Earth meaning in 2020: we have the threatening reality of the epidemic and the waiting for a vaccine to help improve our conditions. Like up there, down there, if we believe that, it's easier to live the truth of waiting. This is just a small example of the strength of the Christian thought. Advent waiting also reminds us of the value of Christianity for Europe: lifestyle, inspiration, and hope. It is regrettable that these values are subject to ever-increasing attacks across Europe, even though giving up Christian roots is synonymous with loss of value and soil, political and social weakness of the infidelity of secular relativism. For Europe, the European Economic and Social Committee is set out in Annex XXI to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Without it, he cannot re-define himself and the strategic issues related to the long-term survival and future of our civilization. It is a matter of national strategy to ensure that protection against a coronal virus epidemic is successful not only in Hungary but also in Europe and in the European Union. This is why Hungary has helped neighbouring countries in difficulty with health equipment, and that is why we consider it very important that instead of the political and ideological debates that are taking place in Brussels, the EU is working to help the countries of the South in distress. We'll always be partners in this. For Hungary, however, a European alliance based on the cooperation of strong nation states is important not only from a political, economic point of view, but also from an economic point of view, but the preservation of Europe, the protection of its intellectual, cultural and civilisational heritage and identity is a value that, in our view, cannot be the subject of debate. The stakes are high: imperial centralization in Brussels, federalism, ideological education, pro-immigration, multicultural social model or national sovereignty, replacement of capacity in the Member States, refusal of national Christian identity. Liberal democracy, which has been declared to be the best possible worlds, has gone into a frozen, existential crisis. What do we see back here? The signs of this are also shown here, stolen from sleds for orphan children at left-wing protests, and set on fire by protesters, left-wing journalistic association, chooses the Caricature of the Saviour as the work of the year. However, the values that make Western civilization successful and tested are social-forming ideas that, even in these distraught times, are a certain point, grip and support. During Advent, let us recall these values and draw strength from them when facing the challenges of the present and the future. Remember: no Hungarian is alone. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-01-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The year 2020 was not only about the centenary of the Trianon dictatorship and the coronal virus epidemic that hit all of us, but also about a series of decisive choices. In these trials, our national communities have mostly been successful and their positions have been strengthened within the political systems of the successor states. Thanks to the nation-building activities of national governments over the past ten years, Hungarians have gained strength and have also succeeded in strengthening our communities across the border. Today we can look at each other with confidence again and learn to think and dream together again. The results of the elections are all extremely important, and in order for indigenous Hungarian minorities not to be at the mercy of the majority, strong representation at local and national decision-making levels is essential. We are going through successful elections in Serbia, Croatia, municipal elections in Romania and Ukraine, and at the end of the week, on 6 December, we are facing decisive parliamentary elections in Romania. Ladies and gentlemen, It was not easy, but in 2010 we managed to overcome the national treason on 5 December 2004. A few days before the anniversary of the shameful event, it is important to recall on this day's day of mourning that the left excluded Hungarians from the nation in 2004 and turned Hungarians against each other with Hungarians. There is still a representative in the left-wing ranks who recently called three million national emotional voters a rat, and in 2004, along with his family, he was chasing posters against Hungarians across the border. And the fact that 16 years ago, Ferenc Gyurcsány was the conductor of the national treason, who destroyed the country during his prime ministership and is still the leader of the left. It is not new that Ferenc Gyurcsány was always against the Hungarians, but in recent times, unfortunately, we could also get used to the fact that his best student, his left-wing ally, András Fekete-Győr and Momentum are campaigning against the Hungarian party directly alongside the Romanian party. The Momentum, a youth group of DK, is not only in Brussels, it is consistently against Hungarians [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] It's also in Romania. While the left-wing and the European Union's institutional system stands up for the rights of illegal migrants, it is silent on the rights of indigenous national communities. Ladies and gentlemen, The stake of the Romanian parliamentary elections, which will take place on 6 December, is how strongly authorised the DAHR as a legitimate political representation of Transylvanian Hungarians will be in the Romanian legislative process. For a while, we may have hoped that Romania would not prepare for the 100th anniversary of Trianon's injustice, but rather show generosity. It was once again proved to be a vain hope. The spring outbursts of President Iohannis, insulting and attacking all Hungarians, are embedded with open provocation, the adoption of the Romanian Trianon Act. According to this, 4 June was declared a Romanian national holiday, and the Hungarians were violated. It is sad that the Romanian state is also thinking about attacking the Hungarians during the epidemic instead of common defence. It is also regrettable that the Hungarians, Hungarian organizations, institutions, Hungarian magistrates, such as László Brenzovics, the leader of KMKZSZ, are also under unprecedented attack in Ukraine today. We also send a message: we stand up for the Hungarians and call on Ukraine to stop with an unprecedented attack on the Hungarians, which reminds us of war situations. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It is unacceptable for armed commandos to invade and intimidate Hungarians on fabricated charges. Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to Transylvania, the Hungarians of Transylvania managed to overcome the division in order to succeed: the representatives of the Hungarian parties will start on a joint RMDSZ list. There was a rehearsal in September. During the municipal elections, DAHR's candidates played well, after 20 years, Turosvásárhely has a Hungarian mayor again in the person of Zoltán Soós. The most important lesson of Marosvásárhely and Szatmárnemeti is that the Hungarians can only win if they join forces and now they are united again in December. The last hundred years have proved that Hungarian communities that have broken across the border cannot expect any voluntary good from the majority, only what they stand for and fight for. The objective set is now clear: let Hungarians be inevitable in Romanian politics. It is not only necessary to get into Parliament; more representatives and senators must be sent to Bucharest to make more money for the Hungarian settlements, to make reasonable and urgent improvements in health and road infrastructure, so that we can feel free to use the Hungarian language and not to mess with our national symbols. Finally, let me ask, on behalf of Fidesz and myself, all my fellow Romanian constituents to take part in the vote in spite of the epidemic, because the stakes are extraordinary. Participation in the vote is less dangerous than going to the store to buy bread, and we think 10-15 minutes is definitely worth four years. All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians! Let's do it again on December 6th, Hungarians! Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-01-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would also like to ask my fellow Members, who have just arrived, to take their seats, very high ground noise in the room. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[10.10]]
u2020-12-01-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Every election is a celebration of democracy, and it is a very interesting phenomenon that we, too, always have a special relationship with the Hungarians for elections in neighbouring countries. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, it is here in Parliament that it always shows the fault lines between committed national-citizen parties and those who are in favour of globalism and internationalism. To give just a few examples of the past, we remember that after 2002, Péter Medgyessy, former D-209 agent, ex-Prime Minister at the Kempinski Hotel on 1 December, so on the anniversary of today, which is also the day of Gyulafehérvár, which is about the formation of Romania, toasted the Romanian Prime Minister on a Romanian national holiday on the anniversary of the loss of Transylvania. This may be an individual mistake in itself, but if we think that in the 2004 referendum, when we were able to vote on the Hungarian citizenship of Hungarians abroad, the left really acted unitedly against this possibility, Ferenc Gyurcsány took a hard stand in this campaign, and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was the representative who represented this counter campaign as a poster face when she had already served her place to this day. It's a shameful memory, it's a shameful occasion that they haven't been able to separate from since DK took every opportunity since we voted for it. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Szilárd Demeter! The president's ringing the bell.]] the dual citizenship, so that Hungarians from abroad can vote on the representation of Hungarians, and they always rise up against it, speak out against it and incite hatred against Hungarians from abroad. I believe that this is the most important fault line that is here today in the Hungarian Parliament and is the source of all our troubles and debates; and that the national consensus is made difficult by refusing to consider foreign citizens, like nationals of other states, as part of the nation, as they do in Hungary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Another example is the new wave, the Momentum case, that we cannot expect good from the new ones, who represent the fresh power, who are taking action against the old left, according to their own slogan. In fact, András Fekete-Győr even lied that he was a right-winger anyway, which he has not proved since then, who, specifically in connection with the Romanian elections, had previously acted in favour of a liberal party against DAHRSZ, the Hungarian candidates; he did the same in connection with the election of state, and it is not an isolated phenomenon. But at least as shameful is an old saying from the former President of Szolnok, when Zoltán Szotyori-Lázár said about Transylvanian Hungarians, that he considers them to be a massa prone to debauchery, who, like North American Indians, give their votes a glass root. It's also interesting what a right-wing party... Perhaps this approach to the left began when the name of the Democratic Coalition finally came to its senses, and there really would be a coalition. Ferenc Gyurcsány saw the future, and this is the mass, this is the pedestal that connects you, no matter whether it is the weakening of Hungarians from abroad, whether in Brussels it is the weakening of total Hungarians, you are always lining up there, all our debates are about it or in hiding or openly. But the most important thing is that, in Transylvania, Transcarpathia, Vojvodina or Slovakia, when there are elections, Hungarians should stand up for their own interests, choose their own representatives, who can enforce their own interests either within Parliament or in local elections, because it is only a strong representation that can guarantee equal citizenship in these countries. Of course, we have a duty to encourage, help, and support them in their survival, but in these days we must primarily ask them to stand up for themselves. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We continue our work with decisions from 10:15 a.m. to a few more seconds. Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[It's happening. It's constant noise.]] Honourable Parliament! It's 10:15, and we're going to continue our work on the agenda. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance statement. Present: 171; away: 28.]] Thank you. I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. Dear Parliament, It follows that the T/13638 on the publication of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland amending the Agreement on Mutual Visa Representative is to be concluded. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/13638/1. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13638. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 171 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The T/13639 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13639. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 168 votes in favour, 1 vote against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to hold a detailed debate as a designated committee on the publication of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The final vote on the proposal will therefore not take place at this meeting. Following is the T/13641. on the announcement of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13641. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. It follows from the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates for the year 2019, H/11093. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/11093. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 119 votes to 15, with 36 abstentions. [[10.20]] It follows that T/13631 on the amendment of individual laws to ensure more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13631/9. T/13631/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13631/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 49, with four abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13631/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes to 54, without abstention. Next up is the H/13655 on the declaration of the year 2022 and 2023 as the Memorial Year of Sándor Petőfi. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain the legislative amendment. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is the motion of the Member, Ádám Steinmetz. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed to maintain the legislative amendment proposal No 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is the motion of the Member, Ádám Steinmetz. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes to 112, with 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/13655. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 172 votes in favour, unanimously, without vote against and without abstention. It follows that T/10660 on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for the year 2019. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10660. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 113 yes, 58 votes against, without abstention. It follows that T/13331 on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2021 will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13331. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill 114 yes, 57 votes not, without abstention. Next up is T/13471. on the status of National Tax and Customs Office personnel. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13471/8. T/13471/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Anita Kőrösi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Anita Kőrösi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes to 110, with one abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13471/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 114 votes to two, with 54 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13471/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to two, with 53 abstentions. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Act T/13474, amending certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13474/4. T/13474/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13474/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes to 13, with 44 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13474/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes to 14, with 45 abstentions. [[Result appearing on the board: 114 yes, 11 no, 45 stays.]] Following a series of amendments to Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning T/13475. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13475/4. T/13475/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13475/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13475/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 54, with no abstentions. [[Result appearing on the table: 113 yes, 59 no, 0 stay.]] [[10.30]] It follows that the T/13477 on the necessary amendment of individual laws to introduce a home creation action plan will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13477/6. T/13477/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 is proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 is proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 112 against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13477/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 170 votes to none, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13477/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 171 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 1997 LXXXIII on compulsory health insurance benefits. T/13665. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13665. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 171 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. T/13653. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13653. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 119 votes in favour, 30 against and 22 abstentions. It follows that T/13645. on the repeal of Decree-Law No 19 of 1979 on the publication of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13645. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 171 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/13479 on the amendment of certain consumer protection laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13479/5. T/13479/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13479/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 171 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13479/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 171 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. T/13480. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13480/5. T/13480/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13480/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes to 26, with 9 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13480/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 27 against and 26 abstentions. Next up is T/13481 on employment promotion services and support and employment surveillance. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13481/5. T/13481/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13481/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with 34 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13481/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, no votes against, with 54 abstentions. Next up is T/13482 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13482/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/13482/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13482/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes to 24, with 2 abstentions. [[10.40]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13482/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 144 votes to 26, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. I would ask you to remain in the Chamber, as far as possible, only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers, subject to increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation. Dear Parliament, After you take your seats, we will begin our work. There follows a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Sweden on the publication of an agreement between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the termination of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments until closure. The government referral is T/13933. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-12-01-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to fulfil Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union, in particular the execution of a judgment binding on the Member States at the Court of Justice of the European Union. This judgment was delivered on 6 March 2018 and was published by the Court of Justice of the European Union in a case between the Slovak Republic and Achmea BV. According to the court, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is contrary to the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States. According to this clause, if an investor in a Member State of the European Union invests in another Member State and there is a dispute over this investment, arbitration may be initiated. According to the court, arbitration clauses between the investor and the State are contrary to EU law, which undermine the system of redress provided for by EU treaties. In order to implement the judgment and to establish a coordinated action at EU level, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements. In order to eliminate bilateral investment protection agreements between Member States in an orderly manner, a multifaceted international negotiation between EU Member States has started to reach an agreement, and Hungary has also been actively involved in this negotiation process, fulfilling its obligation under EU law. As a result of these negotiations, an agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union, which is also appropriate for Hungarian interests, was reached. This was also signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020. It has been signed by 23 Member States, including our country, and this has been proclaimed in a law. It is important to note that Sweden, Finland, Austria, Ireland and the United Kingdom have not signed this agreement for different policy purposes. Sweden proposed to terminate the agreement signed in Stockholm on 27 April 1987, which was concluded between the People's Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, by means of an oral list for the purpose of bilateral termination. Under the provisions of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Contracts, it is possible to terminate the investment protection agreement in this way on the basis of mutual agreement between the parties. Accordingly, the oral list of Sweden and the reply list of Hungary together constitute an agreement on the termination of the investment protection agreement between the two States. On the basis of the Hungarian legislation, the power of the Parliament is necessary for the adoption by the Hungarian party of the termination of the international legal obligation in question. The termination shall be ordered by law and the replacement of the register containing termination by mutual agreement shall be published in the same law. The agreement which is the subject of this bill results in the termination of the investment protection agreement between Hungary and Sweden, and one of its main purposes is to fix the termination of the expiry provisions of the termination agreement without any further effect. Thus, it is adequately ensured that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of producing additional legal effects after termination. Dear Parliament, By concluding this agreement, Hungary is fulfilling its obligations under EU law, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The oral list of Sweden's Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent on 20 February 2020 proposed the termination of the agreement between our countries on the promotion and mutual protection of investments concluded in 1987. Our North Partner has signed the contract in question with the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic, and it is timely to review this outdated agreement, therefore and for the 33 years since then. However, the main reason for the international legal action is that, according to the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the arbitration clauses of the Investing State laid down in bilateral investment agreements within the EU undermine the system of redress provided for by the EU Treaties, thereby endangering the autonomy, effectiveness, priority and direct scope of EU law and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. [[10.50]] In order to comply with Union law, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements in a bilateral or bilateral manner, if more effective. The termination of the investment protection agreement before us therefore ensures consistency with the legislation of the European Union. It is also an important part of the international agreement in question that paragraph 2 provides that the Parties agree that Article 14.3 of the Agreement referred to in paragraph 1 which extends the protection to investments made before the date of termination shall expire and shall cease without legal effect after the entry into force of the Agreement. In this way, it is adequately ensured that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of producing additional legal effects after its expiry on the basis of the current bill. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group, who I think will take his place in no time. Congressman! [[Daniel Z. Carpathian enters the room and takes his place.]] It is unusual for us to wait for a congressman, but I wanted to give him the opportunity to speak in order and in time. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-12-01-33	Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I have to say that we have had a lot of agendas on investment protection, protection of financial interests, and I would like to say on this point that there is basically no debate between us in terms of principles and approaches. And there are a lot of proposals ahead of us that sign agreements with different countries in terms of investment protection, which have been ratified, these agreements are written down in quotes, and once again we have no problem with that. What is typically the case is the Hungarian financial market, and the national interests of Hungarian investors, which have not been protected in the last decade, but in the three decades period, in the case of the current government of Hungary, so I would not just like to address it. The document before us is triggered by an EU-B decision that the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU is contrary to the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements between Member States. The resulting debate must, of course, be carried out, perhaps. I myself, when I hear the term arbitration or terminology, I'm beginning to get a little cold, because I'm thinking of exactly the kind of process I'm distant from. This is a flow diagram of the various free trade agreements, which is trying to bring arbitration in, where appropriate, even among multi-company procedures, but I say that the debate before us may be carried out in this direction beyond the framework of the general debate, so I do not want to do a deep drilling in this area. And we must say that, overall, the agreement serves to create an EU-wide framework for investment protection. It is a bit spicy to discuss such a proposal in the light of the fact that we are now seeing, in the context of the EU veto, that there seems to be some ruffles on the surface of the water. But it's just another agenda again. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Therefore, I would like to reduce the substance and message of my speech to the point that, of course, I could argue a great deal about the content of the package before us, but if there is real and good intentions behind it, then what we have is debateable. Once again, the general debate gives us the opportunity to discuss the framework of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-12-01-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Members have already made known to me that the Court of Justice of the European Union made its decision in 2018 in the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea BV. The Court of Justice of the European Union referred to Articles 344 and 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which must be interpreted as being contrary to the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States, whereby an investor in one of the Member States may, in the event of a dispute over investments in another Member State, bring proceedings before an arbitration tribunal against that latter Member State. In order to comply with Union law, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements. One of the main purposes of the Agreement is to provide for the termination of the provision of the termination agreement without any further legal effects. Thus, it is adequately ensured that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of producing additional legal effects after termination. The Agreement shall enter into force 30 calendar days following the receipt of the reply list of the Government of Hungary. KDNP supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-37	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the presentation. Thank you.
u2020-12-01-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I'll be a little shorter than Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I would refer Z. Karpa back to Daniel's speech. I do not think it is a deep drill in this matter, as you said, Mr President, with your use of the word, to refer you back to the position of the chosen courts here, but I think that is the basis for this decision. This is a long court procedure, the essence of which is to say that this particular arbitration court cannot be regarded as a national court; this is another case, so that this proposal can be brought before us. We welcome this background decision, by the way. Technically, in any forum we could, we protested against such arbitration decisions. For example, when, in the case of the Paks loan agreement, the parties also named an arbitration court, we also thought that this was against national interests. Similarly, as Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned, this is one of the most painful points in free trade agreements when, in practice, some lawyers are entrusted with, say, nation states against multinational companies and are obliged to pay serious sums when, say, they are trying to protect the interests of people living there at local level. So this is definitely a process and a network of free trade agreements is also a process that fundamentally violates national sovereignty. That is all I wanted to say; we are in favour of this proposal. At the same time, allow a teeny-tiny deviation from the object. It's Sweden. Today is a symbolic day. Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond spoke about this, he spoke about the statement in Gyulafehérvár, and about the shameful measures that we have experienced in this year and in the past. At the same time, we know that the European citizens' initiative for supporting national regions is running, and it is very great to see that Sweden has already reached 80% of those who supported it. It was supported by almost 12,000 people. I would also like to thank you here for being included in the Parliament's minutes, for all those in Sweden who supported the European Citizens' Initiative for National Regions launched by the Szekler National Council, and we trust that there is a good chance that the signatures will be collected in a few weeks between Sweden and the green countries, and this is certainly a great pleasure for the Hungarian nation; we will always draw attention to this. And then there is a good chance that Slovenia will be what is needed to meet this legally important criterion in seven countries, and in this way this European Citizens' Initiative will also be a success in a legal sense. But in itself, it can already be regarded as a very, very good success on a political basis from the point of view of Hungarian national interests. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-01-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible for me to speak to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13933. Parliament is discussing a legislative proposal aimed at repealing the Investment Protection Convention with Sweden since the 1970s; in view of the fact that in 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union concluded in a specific decision that, as long as a treaty between two countries governs the institution of the arbitration court under the investment protection rules, it is unfortunately not necessary to use the general EU legislation on the basis of European Union law, given that bilateral agreements override the general conventions. [[11.00]] I regret, by the way, that it was a decision taken by an EU court in a specific case that this type of investment protection, or not even investment protection, was at all the main issue, but that the provisions of arbitration clauses were reviewed, given the fact that the existence of the European Union and the enlargement of it resulted in an inexorable amount of harmonisation work in each country, and that it might be thought that the incredibly large staff that surrounds these serious changes would exclude the extent to which such agreements undermine the fundamental measures and the use of legal institutions laid down in the EU Treaties. So, in this respect, I would like to emphasise that, not in our Parliament and not in our government, but in every government in the EU countries, I would expect that not a single decision would draw attention to such problems. We will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, even because I would like to say a few words about the issue of the arbitration court. We would think that when we say the word "chosen court" that it is a rather powerful free choice in terms of whether the dispute between two parties will be dealt with in which forum. But what we can see is, also within the European Union, and therefore also in relation to organisations in European Union countries, is that companies and organisations in a monopoly position are very powerfully, unilaterally, as dictators, or have introduced into their contracts and contractual offers the institution of the chosen court. The problem is that, for example, enforcement in a country other than the jurisdiction of Hungary is extremely difficult for the individual, but even for an average company. In this way, when we talk about an arbitration issue, a responsible professional is always extremely cautious and tries very hard to suggest to the parties to the current future contract that they do not allow this to happen and that there should be no dictatorship clauses. In this respect, I am linked to my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpa, who also mentioned that free trade agreements are also the most neural point, and we are fighting the most against the entry into force of these provisions at any time, for example in the case of our country, of unilateral and Hungarian citizens, organisations or even EU citizens and organisations, which no one can undertake. However, given the fact that it is about repealing a long-standing investment protection agreement between two countries, let us sometimes have a history lesson to remember a little about the diplomatic relationship between Hungary and Sweden. Especially because it's an extremely interesting history, although it's very weak in common, but there is. The founding of the Hungarian and Swedish states is actually the same period, during the period of our King St. Stephen I., and the interesting thing is that while after the Hungarian state was founded the beating of own money began very quickly, in Sweden the Hungarian silver and gold coins appeared less, very quickly in Swedish economy as a commercial change, which means that we Hungarians can say that our country's money was convertible even in the 1000s. So this is a very wonderful thing, and I am proud to say that as Hungarians, we have a long and wonderful history. The fact is, by the way, that XVI. The diplomatic relationship between the two countries was very rare for centuries, so it wasn't as close for hundreds of years as it was after that, because Gábor Bethlen married Gábor II. The brother of King Gustav Adolf of Sweden's wife, Katalin Brandenburg, has begun a fairly strong merger of the ruling houses of the two countries. The common interests of the two countries were, by the way, in the anti-Habsburg and in their policies in Poland. In order to think about Hungarian history, this has also strongly defined the fate of our country, so how fortunate it is that Sweden and I have been on the same page on these two issues, and therefore a very strong and friendly relationship has been established between the two countries. Krisztina Swedish Queen II. György Rákóczi sent a Swedish colonel of Transylvanian origin, András Orbay, to the court of Transylvanian prince György Rákóczi, which once again confirmed that the two countries are in a very close diplomatic and friendly relationship. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi and XII. Between King Charles of Sweden after the Battle of Poltava, after he was defeated there, King XII. Charles, he had to flee to Turkey, and half a thousand Swedish soldiers from the army who fled to Turkey fought in the Rákóczi War of Liberty. So how fantastic! They were refugees, they were emigrating, and they had the power to take part in another country's freedom fight. CHAPTER XII Charles lived in Turkey for five years, and when he returned to his country through Transylvania and Buda in 1714 on a certain legendary horse train, he kept the link with his country through Hungary. So what an important role this is, because there were a few countries between Sweden and Turkey, yet it was our country that he could do without risk. On December 28, 1945, the first representative of the Hungarian President handed his first letter of office to the Hungarian President, i.e. the official diplomatic relations with Sweden have been established since 1945. I would like to say a few words to the presentation by my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, on how fantastically devoted and at first distant Sweden is to take the initiative of the European Union, and then they started to vote in favour and to confirm with their signature that they would like the European Union to decide on an initiative aimed at the autonomous recognition of minorities. I must say that I am not disappointed in this regard either, because if we look at the reactions of Swedish society in history, especially when it comes to human rights, when it comes to the interests of peoples, for some reason they are extremely interesting to open up and support the people, the country, the group of people in question. So I thank the citizens of Sweden for this activity, and I hope that Sweden and Hungary will continue to help each other along their common interests, as in history. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-01-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, there is someone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the support of my fellow Members. I would like to thank Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat specifically for his now abstaining from deep drilling. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And I would like to assure you that there is real good intentions behind this bill. Thank you very much, Mr Group Leader, for talking about the initiative of the Szekler National Council. It is very important for us that this collection of signatures be completed with results for all of us, the Szeklers and the Hungarians. We are also pleased that almost the entire Parliament has supported this initiative, with the exception of a single party. The Democratic Coalition was this party, but there is reason for confidence that in my city, in Székesfehérvár, the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Judit Ráczné Földi, supported this initiative there, in the general assembly vote. We hope that you will be able to convince your fellow parties that this is a good initiative and that you can support it. Thank you once again for your support, and I would like to ask you to support the bill in voting as well. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. In line with the bill published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965 on the publication of an amendment to the Single Convention on Drugs in New York, dated 30 March 1961; XCV of 2005 on amending the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979 on Psychotropic Substances, and amending the laws governing the pharmaceutical market on medicinal products for human use. a bill amending the law; and Joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the Convention on the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in Vienna on 20 December 1988, published by the United Nations Act L of 1998, pending its conclusion. Government referrals T/13932, T/133929. and T/13931. On the parliamentary IT network, they are available for all of us. [[11.10]] First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-45	Mr President, Dear House, According to the decision of the United Nations Committee on Drugs, 15 new substances are added to the lists of the psychotropic convention. This list is part of the Convention signed in Vienna. 71. Five of these 15 substances have already been classified as dangerous psychotropic substances by the Hungarian risk assessment, so they are already included in the list of Hungarian legislation. In response to international drug trafficking, the United Nations Convention of 20 December 1988 against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, also referred to by the President, lists in two lists substances that can be used for the manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, known as precursors. At the last seven meetings of the United Nations Committee on Drugs, it decided to include eight substances in Schedule 1 of the Precursor Convention and to transfer three substances from List 2 to List 1. The United Nations Committee on Drugs has decided to include six substances on list 1 of the Convention on Drugs. The designation shall be taken over by all States signatory to the Convention, but no substance shall be designated as a drug under national competence. According to the Hungarian legislation in force, all substances now declared drug use by the UN Drug Commission are currently a new psychoactive substance in Hungary, thus controlled, based on the structural descriptions of the Ministerial Decree. It is the duty of States Parties to take the legislative measures necessary to bring into force and implement the provisions of the Conventions in their respective territories. These UN resolutions are international agreements, so it is essential that Parliament recognises its binding scope and publish the text of the resolutions. That is why I ask this House to support T/13929, T/13931. and T/13932. Bills No. 1. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-46	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Within the framework of the United Nations, the Single Drug Convention was concluded in 1961. Parties to the Convention, seeking to ensure the health and well-being of mankind, recognising that drug pleasure can be a serious blow for the individual and a social and economic threat for mankind, have established a framework for permanent international cooperation in order to ensure control and the implementation of these principles. The Single Drug Convention sets out, inter alia, the controlled substances, the rules for their transport from one State to another, the general obligations of the Parties, international control bodies and their obligations. The purpose of this regulation is to amend the Annex to the Single Drug Convention of 30 March 1961, adopted by the United Nations on 19 March 2019 and to adopt Decision 63/2 of 4 March 2020. 1 and 63/3. recognition of the mandatory scope of the amendment contained in Decision No. Those decisions shall include the official translation into Hungarian and the recognition of the binding scope of the amendment contained in the decision. For the first time in 1979, the United Nations Drug Commission established a Convention on Psychotropic Substances and on the modification of other laws governing the pharmaceutical market. According to the Convention, States Parties have an obligation to take the legislative measures necessary to bring their provisions into force and to implement them in their respective territories. The Psychotropic Convention was published by Decree-Law No 25 of the year on the publication of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971. With this law, the drug commission 62/5-9, as well as 63/4-13. 1) is being transposed into the Hungarian legal order. These decisions of the drug committee include the inclusion of five substances on the list of the psychotropic convention. As the substances concerned are also included in the 2005 XCV on the use of medicinal products and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market. In the list of laws, the purpose of this legislation is to ensure consistency with the Convention, to remove those five substances from the Convention Register. The United Nations Drug Commission for the first time concluded a Convention against the illicit marketing of drugs and psychotropic substances in 1998. That committee shall be the functional committee of the United Nations for the development of international drug policy. The Committee shall meet annually at its seat in Vienna. In addition to the development of international drug policy, the Committee on Drugs also has a regulatory function under the mandate of the United Nations Conventions on International Drug Control and can decide which substances should be subject to international control. I ask for the support of the legislation. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Congressman, I think that this is the bill in which neither politics nor the profession will debate, because it is binding for everyone, and I think that there is no Member in this Parliament who can generate any kind of debate. I have said many times that, unfortunately, we are lagging behind with drug distributors and producers. If we look at this proposal, it's more than a six-month delay to put it on our list. It's very difficult to get out of a vicious circle. I have tried several times to put forward or make the proposal that I know that this should always be included in legislation, but the ministerial regulation may be quicker, and that is something the secretary of state should think about. After all, here in the Hungarian Parliament, I do not think that there is a Member who can join this, whether professionally or politically, and vote 'no'. Today we are living in a world that affects our children, young people, to a very great extent, and we can see the presence of psychotropic substances here, that they are changing from day to day, that producers have several months of advantage, which they are now creating in their labs, that we will vote on next March or April. My request in this process, in which these proposals are presented to Parliament, is to try not to be decided by Parliament, but to take a faster measure in a ministerial regulation, which accelerates bureaucracy. So, of course, we will support it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-12-01-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I agree with the speakers before me that this is a very serious and important topic, and we need to take it very seriously, for example, I am very much in favour of any tightening up, of dealing with designer drugs, psychoactive psychotropic substances. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that, from 1 January 2015, the list of new psychoactive substances will no longer be laid down in a government regulation, but in a ministerial regulation, which will allow for a faster response. On one side, you've already done what you asked for, and I think it's important. I also consider it important that the Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, was the regulation of the European Union as soon as possible to respond to the current problems in 2013, thanks to the fact that Hungary's first entry into force among the Member States of the European Union is the tightening up that is contained in the Criminal Code. This includes, among other things, strict criminal law rules on designer drugs, including European standards. Since 1 January 2014, the law on the sanctioning of all acts involving new psychoactive substances, similar to drugs, has been in force. [[11.20]] Hungary is one of the few EU countries where the possession of new psychoactive substances is prohibited, and it also follows that the strictest regulation in Hungary is in place for possession in the European Union, but once again I can support any tightening up and any move towards stricter provisions and sanctions in this matter. Given the continuous emergence of new substances, which may even be extremely dangerous, so the rapid response is as important as possible, which is why the statistics show that drug crimes that have continued to grow until 2014 have shown a stagnant image only in very parentheses, because this is still a lot, we still have a huge problem to deal with. The objective of the government and Fidesz-KDNP and I think that we all have a clear goal: we must protect young people from one of the greatest threats to them today, and we must cooperate on all sides of the parliamentary horseshoe. And I would add to my fellow Member that, when we are talking about the Vienna Convention, the 15 new psychotropic substances that are on the list of the convention, a large part of which is already a drug in Hungary under the current rules, so there are basically places where we have already been faster than the international conventions, lists and research groups of international organisations. I think it is very, very important that we act together against the use, possession and dissemination of drugs, drugs, psychotropic, psychoactive substances, and obviously we also do our international duties every year. From this point of view, what the Secretary of State has just said here, of course, every tightening up is welcome and every step is desirable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We were also discussing these issues with my colleague Gyula Molnár, which my colleague Lajos Rig also spoke about, how important speed is, so we will certainly support this proposal, and I believe that there will certainly not be a debate on the content of this proposal here in this House. What I would suggest to the Secretary of State is that there is relatively little mention of drug policy here in this House. I agree with my fellow Member, Nacsa, that this is an extremely important problem not only in Hungary, everywhere in the world, but in relation to the scale of the problem, I believe that the House has little to do with this issue. We could probably be more active in this, as immediate questions and questions on such issues could perhaps be asked more often, but I still think that, regardless of this, the government initiative would mean a lot in this area. The other thing is that I would argue with my fellow Member Nacsa that only and only tightening up depends, of course, on what we mean by tightening up, because if we mean the classification of drugs, we do not have a debate here, but we must see that prevention, harm reduction, diversion, there are a number of very important instruments that are designed to save or protect the youth that the Member has spoken about, and despite having an incredibly strict criminal code provision, I think that the effectiveness and effectiveness of this is not proven by international results; rather than in any other crime, the effectiveness of detection, and I see that there is an incredible lack of resources in the police force in Hungary in terms of drug detection, so if we look at international comparisons, then Hungary is somewhere at the end of these comparisons. So I know that this is not a matter for the secretary of state, but I would like to draw attention to the need to strengthen the police in this area, because basically it is for the distributors to be persecuted, for consumers it may not be the best way to get them off this road at all costs with the means of criminal law. This is far less effective than using other so-called soft tools, and I see that the Fidesz government is more focused on this robust criminal policy instrument and much less on other consensual diversion and harm reduction or prevention techniques in the world. And that is why, if I remember the numbers correctly, there may be a lot less resources available for these questions. All in all, I wanted to give you a very short look, but on behalf of both of us, on behalf of my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, I can also say that we, for our part, will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, I agree with my fellow Members, including Mr Rig and even with Mr Nacsa, that this is indeed an issue which is a serious and very serious social threat, essentially one of the most serious problems facing young people now, and we really need to agree on this, and we need to act together. I can also say and it is obvious that there will be no debate in this either that this is a bill, these are legislative proposals that we will support, but I very, very much agree, and I would like to underline what Mr Attila Mesterházy said that this alone is not enough. So we really need a strategic approach from the point of view of being a drug strategy with which Hungary can straighten things out and use all the tools, prevention programs and everything else to deal with this problem in substance. Indeed, it has been said by Congressman Rig, and this kind of criminal market is changing so rapidly and dynamicly that a rapid, indeed rapid response is needed. In this case, we also welcome the Government's efforts to make decision making more flexible, so to speak. But you did mention, Mr Nacsa, that the Hungarian legal order is sufficiently strict in this regard and that it could support any further tightening up. I agree with this, indeed, that there is one of the strictest drug laws in Hungary, and we would indeed support any tightening up in this regard, but let us look at it from the other side that it has not been possible to reduce this threat despite such strict measures, precisely because other measures, such as school prevention programmes, have been contained and reduced. So there is no other side to this, so that, in itself, with the instrument of legal discipline on the other side, it is possible to take a substantial action at the same time. We can say that, in the long term, the solution would be to involve civil and ecclesiastical organisations in national drug policy, to strengthen the signalling system, to put in place appropriate school prevention and harm reduction programmes, so that the greatest players can play a significant role in prevention and rehabilitation. I would like to refer to one more thing, although I think we agree on this, because you just have to look at the statements, the numbers, that over the last ten years, the so-called national drug map has been radically rearranged, creating such a dual drug market, and, from 2010, that designer drug explosion has mostly appeared in the decomposing areas, and we can say that it has started to spread in a shocking and unstoppable way. So we can also say that until there is a comprehensive social policy strategy for the eradication of extreme poverty, we will not be able to deal with this issue, let us say, with a symptomatic treatment. We therefore consider these legislative proposals to be important and complementary measures, but at the same time there is a fundamental need for change, a change to be made both within government work and within the whole institution network, in order to address this extremely important and serious challenge in substance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-12-01-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Lajos Rig, from Jobbik, has applied for a repeated speech. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be quick. We are indeed facing a very important question, so I thank László Keresztes and Attila Mesterházy for his contribution. It is not enough for us here in Parliament to adopt this law, to say yes, to press the button, and I think that it is also necessary to give the authorities the authority to help effectively prevent drugs, prevent and stop the drug use of students and children. There would be a lot of tools in the hands of the municipalities at the moment that could be effective, these so-called KEFs, the drug coordination forums, but unfortunately, this cannot be completed, because they cannot fill it with content and powers that would really be a great help to the municipalities. This doesn't seem to be the case here in Parliament. If we look at some local governments that deal with this, they will try to involve young people either through the EFI offices in the circle where they can be informed about the harmful effects of the drug, we still have very little information. These programmes, these forums, these KEFs, should be strengthened at regional, district and national level. [[11.30]] That's how it could be, I think, to take drug prevention, whether it's for students or for young people. Now that we're putting these psychotropic substances and drugs on the ban list, we've taken a step. But what I must know in the previous speech is that drug labs are very simply producing new substances, because their chemical composition is already changed, one of the ingredients is put forward, its chemical structure is already changed, its chemical structure is not on the ban list, the police are trying to bring them in, they identify the drug, they are not on a ban list, although it has a psychotropic effect similar to that on the ban list, so they will not be punished. What the authorities can do is create a diversion. Sadly, most of the diversions go to the point of becoming a drug user again. True, it is not up to us, it is up to the individual, the system, how effectively he can operate. I think we need to work together on this issue. This is not only the problem of Hungary, not just the problem of Hungarian people, but the problem of Europe and the whole world. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mrs Ildikó Horváth, State Secretary, if she would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for the contributions of Members and for supporting statements. I also thank you very much for the urgency that gives us a very serious background support in the fact that the route that the government has chosen at a time when it wants to speed up and tighten procedures is good, which is supported by both the parties of government and the opposition. This is important because the Member has already reflected in the 55/2014. The EMMI regulation, which has provided a faster response, not in a government regulation since 2015, but in a ministerial regulation, but has taken several steps since then. That 66/2012 was born in the spring of this year. The amendment to the government regulation, which simplified the inclusion of substances, shortened the deadlines and, in this evaluation process, all actors who are not necessarily relevant will be excluded from the list, their involvement is formally required, if required. This proves to be a very suitable tool for speeding up the rapid response after the emergence of designer drugs, so what Congressman Rig has mentioned and confirmed, we would very much like to go further and use these instruments. There is a so-called early warning system throughout the European Union. On the first day of each month, the EMMI National Drug Focus Point reviews the new materials, new announcements that came from other European countries or from somewhere in the world, but we also do this research and research work in Hungary. I have to say that, this summer, in a Member State of the European Union, a total of 217 new psychoactive substances have been listed and 7 new substances have been added to the new psychoactive substance list. What I think is important to point out is that more than 260 new drugs have been identified by the authorities in Hungary, so we are actively continuing the identification work needed for Hungary to contribute to successful reconnaissance throughout the European Union. In total, 730 substances have been identified in Europe for 2019 over the 15-year period compared to 260 of us identified since 2010. We have to say that we have taken our share from the side of Hungary in the exploration of these new materials. We want to continue this, we want to speed it up, so whoever has information that something new comes up, it's important that we get them in. I would also like to say here that most of our material appearing is a generic regulation, which, based on the use of the standard formula, is already included in the category of controlled substances, so when Bull appeared in Hungary, this was already included in the category of controlled materials. We can't catch him, I'm sure, the drug developers, but we want to be very close to them. I agree with what the Members have said on a number of sides that, in part, there is a need for more stringent regulation, speed and, in addition, different methods of prevention. Our experts in several forums have formulated that this prevention is the strengthening and development of human behaviour in children that can say no. This helps to say no to knowledge about alcohol, smoking, and drugs. This has the content, the public health significance of the decision to take a preventive approach, to protect the health of children and young adults, and we hope that they will be able to live a life of good health, a life of value, and thus plan to write this public health strategy. So our public health professionals are not proposing an isolated alcohol strategy, a drug strategy, or a smoking strategy, but are saying that this should be secured in a bouquet. Let me tell you that we are part of a very important process. It should be said that, for example, cannabis testing has shown a downward trend among students since 2011 and has decreased by about half compared to 2011. We know that this is a cautious indicator of what processes are taking place among schoolchildren, but I think it is important that we have managed to change the trend that has been an upward trend in Hungary since 2003. In terms of how much money we need, what money and where we need to move it, I agree with Members who have named the role of local authorities, perhaps Congressman Rig has also highlighted the role of the CEFs. Indeed, with the funds available for drug control this year, I have secured HUF 50 million in order to strengthen their coordinating role and the substantial partners that are involved in this work in the area, in the settlement, to be able to coordinate and join together even more successfully. These are not the only amounts used to support targeted prevention programmes. Let me mention two more important sources. One is a HUF 3 billion sum, which is the EFOP 1.8.7/16. It also provides resources to prevent and reduce the development of drug use in EU design. There is another one, which is the development of the infrastructure of the children's, youth-psychiatry, addiction and mental health care system from HUF 6 billion. These are significant sources of protection against this addiction. I see that the profession, the professional gremlin that deals with it, has been committed to renewal and the implementation of modern prevention principles. Your work is fully supported. Thank you very much for your contribution, and I would like once again to ask Members of Parliament that, as they have mentioned, they should vote in favour of these legislative proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-60	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the presentation of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia until its closure. Government referral T/13927. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. For the first time, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-61	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I don't know if I can hear you... I'm very happy to welcome you, and thank you for the floor...
u2020-12-01-62	Please place a hand microphone in front of the Secretary of State. [[It's happening.]]
u2020-12-01-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to align the Air Transport Agreement signed between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on 3 November 2020. Under the rules on procedures for international treaties, it is necessary to publish the agreement at a legal level. Dear Parliament, The dynamically developing South East Asian region is increasingly turning to the west, towards Europe. This process, in line with our country's eastern opening policy, offers the opportunity to strengthen cooperation between Hungary and Cambodia. [[11.40]] It is in our country's interest to strengthen our economic, trade and investment relations with Cambodia. There is regular dialogue between the two countries, and there are mutual public leaders and visits at government level, in which several bilateral agreements have been reached in recent years. This includes economic cooperation and development agreements, investment protection agreements, the credit line provided by Eximbank and a joint scholarship programme. In early November this year, on the 65th anniversary of the admission of diplomatic relations between the two countries, the new Hungarian foreign representation and consulate under the Hungarian embassy of Hano was reopened in Cambodia. Dear Parliament, The Air Transport Agreement between the two governments provides a sound legal basis and modern frameworks for the launch and operation of scheduled passenger and freight flights between any international airport in the two countries. The creation of a direct air link between Hungary and Cambodia can give further impetus to bilateral cooperation and help strengthen Hungary's eastern trade and economic relations. The relevant bilateral negotiations were authorised by a Prime Minister's decision and the agreement was signed by the parties on 3 November 2020. The agreement includes both a clause on bilateral air transport agreements between Member States and the European Commission, drawn up and agreed jointly between Member States and third countries, including the designation of airlines and the withdrawal of designation. The Agreement is also in line with Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the negotiation and implementation of agreements on air services between Member States and third countries. Dear Parliament, The signed agreement is a state-of-the-art bilateral convention text meeting both professional and EU conditions, which provides for, among other things, the conditions for the designation of airlines wishing to operate flights between the two countries, the issue of operating licences, and a fair and level playing field. The Contracting Parties shall ensure fair and equitable charges for the use of airports and other equipment, the pursuit of commercial activities in their respective territories and the transfer of revenues from marketing activities. The agreement also covers the obligation to submit timetables, the freedom to set prices, the possibility of exchange of information and consultation between authorities, and the settlement of disputes. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled and to support the announcement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-01-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The agreement before us creates the legal conditions for scheduled passenger and freight air transport between Hungary and Cambodia, thereby contributing to the strengthening of trade and economic relations between the two countries. The agreement sets out detailed rules for air transport. I think it is important that the government pays particular attention to Cambodia. The main evidence of this is that 25 years after Hungary closed its embassy, the foreign representation opened again last month only a consular office in the Cambodian capital. There is also interest in Hungary on the part of Cambodia. Prime Minister Hun Sen was a guest of honor at the Budapest Water Summit last autumn, an event on sustainable, predictable and affordable water management. Water is also an important element of Hungarian-Cambodian economic cooperation. The Cambodian Government is making considerable efforts to modernise the countryside. The flagship of this is the.100 model village programme, during which large-scale improvements are carried out in 100 selected rural settlements and the infrastructure that provides them. This allows Hungarian companies with great experience in this field and in the Southeast Asian region to participate in this process. Eximbank has set up a 50 million USD credit line to finance Hungarian-Cambodian inter-company cooperation, which opens the way to Hungarian water-cleaning companies in particular. The aim is to use as much Hungarian technology as possible to modernise Cambodian agriculture and food processing, but Hungarian companies also have competitive knowledge of digital governance. Hungary also insists that the European Union should also strive to make its cooperation with Cambodia intensive and not confuse economic issues with ideological ones in the construction of relations. By cutting customs duties and quotas, the EU should not apply double standards. As far as cultural relations are concerned, it should be mentioned that Cambodian students make use of the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum Higher Education Scholarship Programme year after year, so the government has recently decided to increase this. Finally, it is perhaps less well known that Hungarian archaeologists have gained a great reputation during the archaeological exploration of the late Angkor-based Khmer Empire. This is also an area to which our cooperation may extend. I respectfully request your support for the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-01-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said by the previous speakers, Hungarian-Cambodian relations have been and are increasing in the last few years. Obviously, this is also included in the Eastern Opening Programme, which Jobbik put on the flag of the Parliament back in 2010, that Hungary, in our opinion, needs the Eastern Opening, and Jobbik did very much stress this at the time. Thank God, at least this program has been heard at some level, as the government has also stressed the importance of Eastern opening in the future. This is how we get to the point where air traffic regulations with Cambodia are important. Cambodia can be an important country for Hungary, as Southeast Asia has been an incredibly developing region in recent decades, and it is trying to catch up with small tigers in Asia, Cambodia, and it wants to make an economic change like Asian tigers. Cambodia has a very old history. I would like to say a few words about this. The Khmer Empire was founded in 802, II. It was King Jayavarman who founded the predecessor of Cambodia, and for a long half a millennium Cambodia, this empire ruled the entire Indochina Peninsula. His capital was Angkor. Those who are interested in history and tourism, in tourism in Southeast Asia, obviously have a lot to say about this city name, because I think it may be interesting for everyone to see the historical attraction that can be viewed there. Cambodia was a French colony for almost a hundred years, from 1863 to 1953. There was a slight interruption in this, as Japan occupied Cambodia during World War II in 1941, and remained under the Japanese occupation of Cambodia until 1945. As I said, he won his independence in 53, but it didn't lead to much good, because in 20 years the country was constantly destabilizing. This situation has come to the point that the Vietcong soldiers have also pushed into Cambodia, and this has helped the Red Khmers to gain power. Obviously, everyone has a lot to say about the Pol Pot regime. As early as 1975, with the victory of the Red Khmers, the cruelest, darkest, bloodiest era in the history of the country began. The Red Khmers wanted to turn Cambodia into an agricultural communist country. The primary, most important, was the establishment of death camps. They thought they could rearrange Cambodian people by intimidating the population. Here, primarily, the intellectuals were confined to these death camps and religious leaders. But in itself, having glasses meant mistrust to power, and it could be a reason why someone was put in an internment camp, because the glasses themselves were a symbol of intellectuals. I just wanted to say this as an interesting thing. Pol Pot stated, moreover, that there was no need for intellectuals in Cambodia; although I note that Pol Pot himself, the head of this system, graduated from the University of Sorbonne in Paris. [[11.50]] Another shock from this period was that children were raised to be regularly betrayed by their parents, and even if the parent was not reliable to the system, the children were encouraged to kill their own parents. It's amazing, 'cause I don't think it's happened in any country. It is estimated that during this period, we are talking about four years, at least one million, maximum two and a half million people died in this inhumane system. In 79, the Vietnamese army ended the reign of the Red Khmers, their reign of terror, who joined because national minorities were not spared by the Red Khmers, and the Vietnamese minority in Cambodia was regularly insulted or began to be exterminated. So the Vietnamese army marched in and put an end to the terror of the Red Khmers, who fell back to the mountains in the small parts of the country, where they continued for twenty years. In 89 the Vietnamese army withdrew, and in fact we can talk about the first free election in Cambodia. This happened in 1993 and how interesting it was to see how much the Cambodian people needed democracy: 90 percent of the population went to vote and decided to vote about who would lead the country. By the way, we are talking about a country of 16 million, which is developing very dynamically, especially the population growth is remarkable, since over a few decades the population has doubled. This shows how dynamic the country is developing. Although its GDP is not very high, GDP per capita is USD 2400, but compared to Hungary it has a double area of this country, and tourism is becoming more and more important. And if we are already in tourism, we should definitely mention how important Hungary is, obviously, because of the distance, we are talking about a country that is difficult to reach by car, bicycle and train, air transport is very important and is given special attention. It is therefore necessary to conclude this agreement with Cambodia. The need for increasing tourist traffic and the increase in trade flows require the conclusion of this agreement, which is the conclusion of the Convention signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944, on the basis of which they promote air traffic between their states, both in the area of trade and in the area of human relations. International flights between international airports can be operated on a specific route, as scheduled. Cambodia also has two international airports. On the basis of this agreement, it will be possible to fly over without landing, to land for non-commercial purposes, or to carry goods, transport of passengers, take-up and unloading of mail, i.e. practically everything important, where fair and level playing field between the two countries on the basis of this agreement will be possible. Also, on the basis of reciprocity, duties, duties and taxes are treated in the same way, as I said, on the basis of reciprocity. Aviation safety is very important, which is also a priority in this Convention. Here, the agreement sets out and refers to the minimum requirements laid down in the Chicago Convention, which must be respected for safety purposes by both parties, and if either Party sees that the other Party does not comply with this, it is necessary to draw attention to this within 15 days and the necessary measures can then be taken. In addition, the parties must make every effort to ensure that the charges for using airports are fair and equitable. Here, the same must be done against the domestic, the third and the other Member States, and similar charges must be applied. The same applies to the price level of airlines that a fair price level should be established, but the fare does not have to be reported to the aviation authority of the other party. However, it is interesting to indicate when the fares are discriminatory or when they are unduly high, but where they are artificially low, for example through state subsidies, it is also indicative and in this case it will obviously be necessary to draw the other country's attention to the breach of contract and, in the worst case, it is possible to terminate this agreement if disputes are not properly settled. Within 12 months of the date of notification, this contract shall cease to exist in this case. On this basis, I believe that this agreement is in any way forward-looking and will benefit both countries, and therefore the Jobbik Hungary Movement supports it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-01-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The conclusion of an air transport agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia allows the launch of regular passenger and freight flights between any international commercial airports in both countries and contributes to the strengthening of Hungary's eastern economic relations and to the strengthening of bilateral trade and economic relations. The Agreement is a bilateral agreement that meets both modern professional and EU conditions, including a clause on the designation and withdrawal of airlines, drawn up and agreed jointly by the Member States and the European Commission on bilateral air transport agreements between Member States and third countries. As Minister of State stressed, the agreement is in line with the provisions of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the negotiation and implementation of agreements on air services between Member States and third countries. The agreement opens up the possibility of launching and operating flights between international airports in both countries in a state-of-the-art manner, and KDNP therefore supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I also discussed this law with my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, and we have come to the conclusion that this is a very useful and good proposal. [[Defiance.]] Therefore, the MSZP fraction will support this initiative in any way. And since my fellow Member spoke so well and classically about Cambodia and the historical facts, my fellow Member Hajnalka Juhász added a useful and good summary of the law, so I think that I could not add more to that. So thank you very much for this opportunity and we continue to support this proposal.
u2020-12-01-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I myself appreciate the professional knowledge of my dear colleague Gyula Molnár. I've been leaning on him myself, and I need him to help me with my work sometimes. [[Defiance.]] But I now address László László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I was pleased to hear from Mr Attila Mesterházy and Mr Gyula Molnár that their professional position is in line with the professional position of the LMP. We will also support this bill. I also enjoyed listening to the detailed comments of Congressman Csaba Gyüre. By the way, I always find it very valuable and important in relation to such international conventions that Csaba Gyüre gives a historical overview of these matters. I think it is extremely important that such a comprehensive picture should not only be for those who follow the Parliament's meeting, but it is also important that these ideas should be included in the Parliamentary Journal. I would like to add very briefly, and I have enjoyed this very accurate and important historical overview, despite the fact that Csaba Gyure spoke in detail about a terrible age and a series of terrible misdemeanors, the reign of the red Khmers. I think it is important that you have spoken about this, and thank you very much for preparing with such honor for these speeches, and indeed you are putting these international conventions, which seem to be of a technical nature, into the framework, supported by a historical overview, which makes this truly understandable and acceptable to the Hungarian people. [[12.00]] I do not wish to have a longer debate on the Eastern opening policy, and we have already basically done so in recent cycles. Obviously, there are positive elements to this, but we believe that overall this direction is basically a failure, so the government has absolutely failed to bring out what it had hoped for. In fact, there are some positive elements, and there are some, so let's not keep this quiet even now, extremely negative and harmful elements. Here I could tell you a long time what cases were there, when, in spite of their fundamental principles, or in a manner of speaking, they met despots, decisive politicians who, to put it mildly, could not be said that they were friends of Christian Europe, or that they would support the system of values that we believe in, and on which we are active in public life in Hungary. But I think this is a proposal of a kind that does not necessarily need to be addressed. However, it is true that the Eastern opening policy and the promotion of this kind of investment cannot be underpinned by any policy... [[Dr. László Pósán sneezes.]] Cheers, Congressman. , which is trying to encourage investment in the vulnerability of Hungarian workers working for cheap wages. Similarly, I can say, and this is in connection with the deep economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, that we should basically start economic policy at national level, in Hungary and in Europe, in a direction that makes it possible to operate a real patriot economic policy, a real patriot economy. So, as opposed to importing mass products from a distant continent, we are trying to create the possibility and conditionality of developing the most important needs by domestic production or regional cooperation. Obviously, economic relations with countries located on such remote continents can be complementary activities within a defined framework. In this respect, air transport cannot be bypassed in terms of geographical distances. Despite the fact that LMP, as a green party, as a political party on the principle of sustainability, is always very critical to air transport, we still believe that what the bill refers to is eligible in itself. Allow me one more thought, Mr. Secretary. When I am arguing with you, it is always important to mention that there is a Budapest-Belgrád railway project that we have discussed for many long hours, and this is a symbolic element of the policy that conflicts with the national approach to patriot economic policy. The development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is precisely about how to get Hungarian taxpayers to pay for an infrastructure element that is about serving Chinese, virtually colonial policy, a Chinese expansion policy. This is one of the problems with this Budapest-Belgrád railway project, and the other is that, in addition to encrypting all documents on this, it doesn't make any sense, because Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, said that if I can't follow where he will be on the Adriatic now, so there will be a Hungarian port in the region of Trieste or Koper, then it will satisfy the transport requirements of all Hungarian and Hungarian companies. That is why we do not really understand it, although the problem is not that we do not understand it, but that the Hungarian people and the profession do not understand the need for the Budapest-Belgrád railway project to reach the port of Pyreus, I repeat that from nearly a thousand billion forints in a time of extreme economic crisis when this money should be used to support the Hungarian people. But despite this small detour, I can say that the LMP faction agrees with the bill itself, similarly to the representatives of Attila Mesterházy and Gyula Molnár and the Jobbik faction, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Here are the speeches from the Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[Intercoms: He's not here! He's not in there!]] If not, I will ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Tamás János Schanda: Yes.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank you for your support and for the contributions that we have received that can only be agreed on in substance. We see that this is a bill in which there is no substantive debate between the various political forces. Allow me to reflect on one thing, just so there are no question marks in the air, this is the policy of Eastern opening. Here, I would like to clarify or give him an answer. We consider the Eastern opening policy to be a truly successful direction. This is a successful policy for Hungarian companies and the Hungarian economy. Our economic relations with Eastern countries have increased significantly, and this is beneficial for Hungarian businesses and the Hungarian economy. We absolutely agree that there is no debate between us that patriot economic policy must be fundamental. If the Member supports or supports the economic policy of the Hungarian Government, I can reassure him that the economic policy of the Hungarian Government is a patriot economic policy. We also believe that what can be done in Hungary should be done to ensure the success of Hungarian businesses and that it should be encouraged that production, research and development, production take place in Hungary as many cases as possible. But allow me to draw attention to the fact that this must be complemented by the successful external economic relations that have been developed in recent years, among other things thanks to the opening up of the East, and we need to support Hungarian businesses, Hungarian companies, in order to make capital investments abroad, and thus also strengthen the opportunities of the Hungarian economy. Moreover, this bill can contribute to this in part, so that Hungarian businesses can make more successful investments and development abroad. Our request is for this government policy to be supported, too, Mr Group Leader. In fact, we have had many hours of debate on BUBE, and I would not reopen it, because it is difficult to link the Budapest-Belgrád railway line to the debate on this bill. But let me just say that attacking a railway development from a representative who calls himself a Green Party is always surprising. You know very well that this is also a European Union obligation and, thirdly, a Hungarian national interest, as the Budapest-Belgrád railway line can contribute to achieving not only Hungary but also the Chinese products that Hungary can benefit from in Europe. This will also provide jobs and tasks for Hungarian businesses, which will provide a livelihood for Hungarian people. So I continue to respectfully request that if I can no longer convince you that this project is a project worth supporting, at least it will not attack. That's all we need to make sure he doesn't attack it, because it's a really important development. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Nevertheless, I also thank the rapporteur for his position as a group leader on the law and for all the opinions that have been expressed. I ask you to promote and support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a single electronic sale of individual public services until closure. Government referral T/13957. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The national mobile payment system has been in operation in Hungary for more than six years, ensuring the possibility of paying public parking, tolls, tolls and passenger tickets via mobile payments, through a national single platform, the national mobile payment system. The national mobile payment system provides operators with a uniform set of conditions for access to and provision of services, which also allows new market companies, domestic SMEs and startups to participate in the sale of the public services concerned; this is also an important part of patriot economic policy in connection with our previous discussion. [[12.10]] The success of the system is shown by the fact that it currently operates with nearly four million users, in 90 cities and in the metropolitan district with more than 30 resellers. Dear Parliament, In parallel with the entry into force of the law, the European Commission initiated an investigation into the national mobile payment system and launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. In addition to the adequacy of the domestic system, the Court of Justice of the European Union passed a compromise ruling as a result of the infringement procedure: it approved the existence of a single selling system, while at the same time pointing out that a concession system based on an open procedure could be the right solution instead of an exclusive legal designation of the platform operator. The primary objective of the bill before you is therefore to ensure that Hungary complies with the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Dear Parliament, During the period since the judgment, we discussed in detail with the European Commission all the elements of the new regulatory model, including all the provisions of the current bill and the related draft government regulation, which adopted this solution in order to implement the judgment. In this way, it can be ensured that the national single electronic distribution platform, based on resale distribution, is maintained and that this will continue to function as one of the most important achievements so far. The wholesale side of the new system remains centralised, i.e. the public services concerned are still obliged to join a single sales system. The system may continue to be connected by resellers, but it is new that end-users, including toll-paying citizens, can only be sold by resellers, but not directly by the platform operator. In other words, the concession winner cannot carry out retail activities, thereby strengthening competition in the resale market. Dear Parliament, With the regulation under this bill, the service will also become cheaper for citizens as a whole, let me highlight this, since the payment of the convenience fee will cease. Dear Parliament, In addition to complying with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the proposed bill will therefore transform and re-establish the current mobile payment system in such a way as to significantly reduce the burden on Hungarian families and increase the quality of service. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor F Kovács. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, You have also heard in the expoze: the T/13957 on the single electronic sales of certain public services before us. The aim of the bill is to implement the court ruling in Hungary, and to this end we will keep the timetable sent to the Commission and we will adopt the relevant legislation on a deadline. As a background to the proposal, it is important to note that the national mobile payment system in Hungary has been operational since 2014. The national mobile payment system provides for the possibility of settling public parking charges, tolls, tolls, trash delivery charges, tickets via mobile payments on a nationally uniform platform, via the national mobile payment system. Dear House, According to the bill, the wholesale side of mobile payments remains centralised, i.e. the public services concerned remain obliged to join a central mobile payment platform. What is new to the current solution is that it is not the government that appoints the platform operator, but that it is possible to obtain the right to operate the mobile payment platform in a concession procedure for eight years. According to the bill, the concession model also corresponds to the judgment of the court and to the interests of the Hungarian people represented so far in the case. One of the main failures of the current system is the exclusive legal designation of the operator of the mobile payment platform. According to the bill, the solution would be to vote in favour and hopefully to accept that the legislative designation would cease and that the opening of the market would take place in the concession procedure. This would formally meet the requirement that any undertaking established in the EU may receive a concession for the provision of the service if the conditions are met. From a domestic point of view, the advantage of the solution is that it does not represent a taxatological change, and the current single system based on a resale system would remain within the scope of the regulation, so that the introduction of the concession system and any change of operator would not necessarily be felt by citizens. Dear Parliament, One of the important elements of the bill is that it pays both convenience fees for the mobile payment system in force, according to which both resellers can't collect convenience fees from end-users, nor can the concession operator receive convenience fees or resale fees from resellers. The provisions before us are also more favourable to the service provider's side than the rules in force, because they also expect a gradual reduction of the service provider's fees to be paid by them. By issuing the convenience fee, the source of income of the resellers is that the service provider shares both the concession operator and the resellers. By way of derogation from the existing mobile payment system, in the new model, the concession operator pays a concession fee to the State and the model includes a reasonable profit to the concession operator. Dear House, According to the draft, the successful tenderer should not carry out retail activities, but only ensure the operation of the platform, i.e. the wholesale tasks will continue to be performed by a market participant through its reseller network. The concession procedure may start in 2021 and, after its completion, it is expected that the new model will be operational in 2022. Mobile payments are planned to be available until the concession procedure is closed: public parking, motorway charges, tolls and electronic purchasing of public transport services. This also works in the current system. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill contains forward-looking provisions on the uniform electronic sales of individual public services, and I therefore ask you to support this proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-81	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps it is not a coincidence that my pro-government colleagues wanted to get over the justification of this proposal so quickly, that the usual eulogies, production reports, epics and epic signs about the intergalactic soaring of the Hungarian economy have failed, because there is something else going on here. Here we find out who are the real allies of the government, who are the strategic partners, and who are in favour of the multi-enterprises and banks, because, to put it mildly, they are obligated by this government, but it is also apparent that individual lobbying, corporate interests and various money-laundering technologies can be achieved by their lobbyists to ensure that the Government of Hungary offers permissions, positions and opportunities that go beyond cycles. We now have a concession option in front of us, under which the government would, in an outrageous and outrageous way, grant a concession for eight years to operate the national mobile payment system, probably after its fall in 2022. [[12.20]] So it is certain that it will be much more difficult to eject those who are trying to channel public funds or other kinds of money from these sectors. So until 2030, the government would concrete a company, its leader in this system, on what basis, when it was found out beyond government cycles that it had not been fortunate, whether it was the State Audit Office, the Fiscal Board, the Supervisory Board, anything else. It is not an elegant, non-European solution, and it is also far from the principles of democracy, although I no longer hold it against you. But it seems that by 2030, they would be able to cement a system that is simply a red lamp, glowing from a thousand meters away. They go beyond the fact that the Hungarian car society was robbed in an institutionalized, organised manner, under the title "Accommodity Award" for decades. They are now putting this package before us to be glad that there will be no convenience fee from here, which will be delivered on two levels. I'm glad, because it's really annoying, by the way, that private companies are getting extra profit without any consideration. I'm just asking you gently whether the three-hour rebooting obligation is now part of the package, or whether it will be entrusted to the municipalities to negotiate with the various subsidiary companies or with the subcontractors of the concession winner. I think it would be in the interest of the national economy to establish a single system, but I can certainly see that when the European Court of Justice found it contrary to EU law in 2018, it was the National Mobile Payment Corporation of the State. He's in a monopolistic position, so he didn't plan or expect such a solution from you, not one of those kind that will cement a person and his corporate net by 2030. Obviously, I do not want to reassure you that, after 2022, this network will not be able to remain in place as you imagine, and will not be able to carry out the channel of money that is now in the business plan until 2030. You're not going to make it, fellow Members. If Hungary returns to fair market economy conditions again, this will not succeed. I understand the veto, and I understand the ideas behind it, because if someone were to expose the Hungarian reality now, how your corporate affairs and public money channeling methods work, they would say that there is no such thing in Europe, this is unprecedented in Europe. I also see that the eulogy on economic freedom fights is being performed, and then 900 billion loans are being borrowed, foreign exchange bond issuance is not the first time in the year, and then, although they are at war with Europe, they are still calling down a small advance, right, because it may be necessary in the days. I reject, I strongly reject voices who say that some kind of aid packages or benefits are coming from the direction of the European Union. There were no one-sided gestures in the world politics and the world economy, either in '56 or in '56. In exchange for accessing its markets, Hungary does deserve the resources from which Viktor Orbán and his team are trying to shut the country down with their amazing and unthinkable actions, and we will get exactly where our markets have been served, together with the former governments, but they are now trying to deprive the country of the availability of the cohesion and other resources involved in this exchange, and they are standing before us with a package that, although for eight years would be cemented by the unwarranted burden of the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Antal Rogán Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, decides essentially here, but in the meantime they do not speak a word about the fact that, after a very short introduction, the Hungarian car society, the Hungarian taxpayers, is under pressure to put this whole system in order. The construction of P+R parking lots, the structure of these, let's say, in relation to the agglomeration, was not created by a single word, so a part of the problem, the result is not mentioned, the symptoms and aspirin are given to the dying, but it is. So they're trying to deal with a situation that needs to be considered fundamentally. It has not been mentioned that we can operate with similar payment solutions in the case of motorway stickers, but the supposedly family-friendly government is also in the middle of a coronal virus threat, if someone, say, can hardly take the patient's family member to a medical facility and deliver them to treatment, say, get an appointment, can arrange on the phone, they still have to buy a 10-day motorway sticker. Why, fellow Members? Is the government supposed to be family-friendly, so you can't choose a weekend family sticker solution, a 24-hour freeway sticker solution? Why do they have unclaimed services paid by Hungarian taxpayers? Is this family friendship? Then don't go on. The fact is that there are a number of areas that could be addressed, and there are a thousand questions, but the professional press has largely explained the reasons behind this proposal, and I think that I do not have to rip it any further, because it is quite clear that they want to force another raped monopoly on the market. There may be subcontractors of that concession winner, but the criteria system will be invented by a ministry, and the concession winner will roughly tell you who he is signing with and how he can channel the money. So it is quite amazing that they thought that this was an eight-year concrete structure. So I strongly ask you not to plan so deeply beyond the cycle, especially for 8-9-10 years. So at home in the box, when the family budget is planned by these concession winners, do not plan until 2030, because what lies ahead reflects non-market economy conditions. And it's not a threat, believe me, it's the word of common sense on my part, under common market conditions, that can't last. You can laugh here on the government side, of course, but from national tobacco shops, to various changes affecting the land, they are constantly trying to outsource and absorb entire market and economic sectors. I can't do this. Under normal market economy conditions, you can't do this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let us be clear now for the very first time with Mr Z. Carpathian that the production report is not synonymous with the fact that you are using it. We list facts about the state of the Hungarian economy, by the way. Although I can see that my answer doesn't really tie it down so that I can answer your sentences. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I'm listening!]] Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that the decision of the European Union Court of Justice that you are criticizing now, because we are talking here, is that one of the organisations yesterday, Peter James, because he was confronted with the consequences of his actions, without a mask in public territory, announced in video that he would turn to international courts, this is one of the possible, and the Court of Justice of the European Union is one of these possible forums to which he wants to turn because of the consequences of his actions. We are talking about the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and if you go to the website of the Court of Justice of the European Union, you can read the following sentence. In this regard, the Court states that, for example, a concession system based on a competitive procedure could be such a less restrictive measure. The bill before us is the most patriotic version of the transformation of the current system that could only be brought to Parliament following a decision by the European Union to comply with foreign capital. There is a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union, where the concession procedure is proposed by the Court of Justice of the European Union after having condemned Hungary. Of course, we respect the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but I did not agree with it, but it can be my private opinion or even my political opinion, but it must be respected. But the Court of Justice of the European Union proposes such a concession procedure, we are trying to find that mezzanine, and the ministries and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology are also working to make sure that it is not a system that comes out of this, like in the period 2002-2010, of giving foreign capital motorway constructions and motorway operations. Perhaps Congressman remembers the PPP contracts that HUF 2750 billion was lost by the Hungarian national economy because of what Congressman Varju did with the M5 and M6 motorways. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It's just that you've made an alliance with them, and you're trying to get them back into power. Independent economists calculated that if the M5 and M6 motorways had been built on credit, they would have saved HUF 2750 billion for the Hungarian national economy. Even this year, the Hungarian budget will pay more than HUF 150 billion for the harmful PPP contracts, which your principle friends concluded between 2002 and 2010. It was the harm to the Hungarian budget, it was the harm to the Hungarian national economy, and it was the yelling sin that was committed at that time. And once again, when you tell me what kind of money to spend, think of it as a HUF 2750 billion more in the register now if it hadn't been delivered to foreign friends in that period by Congressman Varju. [[12.30]] For us, it is an important objective that we have set out to implement measures to facilitate the daily lives of Hungarian people, to reduce bureaucracy and administrative burdens, and to introduce the wider scope of online administration. This process includes the national mobile payment system, which has been in operation since 2014, with which there is a possibility to settle public parking, toll, toll and passenger tickets via mobile payments on a national single platform. The national mobile payment system currently operates in 90 cities with nearly four million users, and its range of services is constantly expanding. In 2018, the transport mobile ticket was successfully launched in Budapest, and from this year onwards it provides national coverage of the 69 local urban transport systems operated by Volánbusz, as well as large cities with local community transport, such as Szeged, Miskolc, Tatabánya, Pécs, Kecskemét, Veszprém or even Debrecen. In addition, the national mobile payment system can be used nationwide for the purchase of motorway stickers, as well as for the payment of parking fees in many places. Since the launch of the national mobile payment system in 2014, more than 175 million mobile payments have been made, worth HUF 135 billion. The essence of the national mobile payment system is that the National Mobile Payment Ltd. operates it. As a kind of wholesaler, it is in contract with all public service providers and provides the possibility of resale under equal treatment to the retail resellers with which it is contracted. The aim of the national mobile payment system was to create a national single platform and to prevent foreign economic operators from generating huge profits from mobile payment transactions by Hungarian users, as was otherwise done before 2010. The European Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. In his view, the National Mobile Payment Corporation. the exclusive right granted to it unduly restricts access to the market for the services concerned to economic operators established in another Member State. The Commission has spoken in favour of foreign capital. The Commission then brought an action before the European Court of Justice and, after a year and a half of legal proceedings, the Court held that the regulation on the mobile payment system infringes the provisions of the Services Directive on the right of establishment and the freedom to provide services, but did not give rise to the Commission's action in all cases. However, the Court of Justice, in its judgment, suggested that a concession system based on an open competitive procedure would be an appropriate measure. The bill before us creates a concession model which complies with the judgment of the Court of Justice and also meets the interests of Hungary so far. That's the narrow memento I was talking about at the beginning. On the basis of the bill, the wholesale side of mobile payments continues to provide a national single platform, but, contrary to the current solution, the government does not designate the operator of the platform in a regulation, but in a concession procedure, the right to operate the mobile payment platform for a limited period of time. Furthermore, the bill provides for convenience fees, nor can resellers receive convenience fees from end-users, nor can the concession operator receive convenience fees from resellers. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the mobile payment system in the concession model operates in a self-sustaining manner and to minimise costs for users. The concession procedure may start in 2021 and, after its completion, it is expected that the new model will be operational in 2022. Until and after the introduction of the new model, new resellers can continue to join the mobile payment system. The goal remains that Hungarian users can use as many public services as possible via mobile payment systems on a single platform, thus reducing cash usage and saving time and energy. I agreed with one sentence in Dániel Z. Karpat's speech when he examined the attacks of the car society. If the congressman is as sensitive to attacking the car society as I am, then address a similar statement and letter to the mayor of your support. We haven't seen this from you, because where drivers are being chased, it's Budapest, not the country as a whole. The KDNP fraction supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, And now it's time for Congressman Gyula Molnár to be the lead speaker of the MSZP. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2020-12-01-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I am now under a great deal of pressure from the chairman, and my fellow Member, Mesterházy, has put a great deal of pressure on me, and I am here alone, alone, with no one to consult. I'm trying to fulfill this very important task. I wanted to start by saying: is there such a problem, my fellow Members? If you want to talk about it, you can really sit over here, talk to us when... So you can tell me, because we're going to be talking about this again in the next few hours, that they're changing at some crazy pace here. And there's a new element. So far, we've always talked in this House about how you have an intuitive attraction that what you bring to you will be doing better than what you may be trying to do down there, by people who are obviously significantly less talented than you. So they think in everything that centralization automatically means cost reduction, efficiency gains, and obviously the spread of a happy hormone in all Hungarian society. We must tell you that this is a grave mistake, because the world is not going this way. What you represent, by the way, was once heard by the world. But there's a new element, and we'll tell you that here, I guess, and two more later. There is a new element in addition to centralization: privatisation. For some reason, you didn't like it so much, you didn't like it that much, because you thought you had the efficiency after all. Now there's a whole new element, they're starting to outsource them, and I don't want to hit this dramatic thing again, but they are actually making a decision for eight years, which we don't know exactly how it's going to work in this form and how it's going to work. You have favorites, we can see that. All industries have been slowly executed, they are slowly beyond the universities, although this will be discussed in the next agenda, and the systematic pressure on the local authorities is on the agenda, because the reason why we should go one step further is that you are stopping here at the beginning. All right, let's just say that this is the result of the 2018 EU Court Decision. Mr Secretary of State said that they had agreed with the Commission on this proposal and that everyone was very happy. I don't know how such a negotiation takes place. I think it's obviously said that it's gonna be law, great, we're gonna put it in a concession, great, but it's probably not exactly the details here in the legislation. We will see that later, when one re-examines this, what will be the opinion. But we can't get the simple thing out of our heads that you read newspapers, watch news, and see that more and more players think they're trying to build their own service legs; see metropolitan authorities, see districts, see larger settlements, so cities with county rights. Not to mention the state MÁV, which has built its own system, and compared to this procession, the government is running very fast. Because let's add that this bill states what I once again say is a mistake and a market limitation step, that players like BKK, Volánbusz, MÁV cannot operate this kind of service through their own channel; while this would be a very normal thing, since they are not private players in this respect, but a local government company or some company who could safely do so by leaving these additional cost-enhancing factors to operate such systems on its own. Let's also go a little further into this thing. When there was the National Mobile Payment Zrt., which is now, it was clear that the person who used it had to pay a 10% commission, and there is indeed a convenience fee that one of us or no one liked, which was HUF 50. In some ways, thought was going to those who wanted to provide such services, how, how, this 10% commission could be reduced. Because you're forgetting that the private company you terminated, the one before that, the EME, didn't have this commission system, only the convenience fee. Interestingly, the amenities fee remained, and the commission was added. Now this thing's turned around. And here comes the key question, I think, that we haven't heard anything about, and the bill doesn't talk about it. Because we're modeling here what's really going to happen. What's gonna happen is someone's gonna win. I don't want to predict what kind of character this is gonna be. But this will have a specific concession fee, probably visible to the naked eye, which can only be recovered from one thing if the appropriate commission is extended either to subcontractors or to those who may use the service. Today, we cannot tell you how much the service commission will be on this. Maybe we'll cry back and I won't say this, but I'll give you an example of the convenience fee, the 50 forints, because you might have to work with a commission for this concession company to pay the state what the state will prescribe, pay for the kind of operation, operation that will be, and do something about it: it is appropriate to develop these systems. [[12.40]] Think about what a mystic it was a couple of years ago, the thought of me punching a number into my cell phone and then hitting the freeway. It was an unthinkable thing. And today, it's self-evident and natural. I just want to say one more thing I don't want to waste time on my fellow Member Varju because he has very important things to say, and it is his job to say that I grew up in it, and I used to do it, and I learned that when we charge tolls, when we pick tickets, we do things, we do them because we have to turn a significant part of the money back into the industry that we make this money out of, because, for example, P+R systems have come up here, which means Budapest would really need to expand its parking capacity. So when we talk about parking, we see it as a parking space management. In parentheses, therefore, I think free parking is a huge mistake during this period, but let us not open this debate now. So when we talk about this, I would also like to know and see where that concession fee might go, what will happen to this. Does this mean we're increasing parking capacity in places where it's necessary? Is it expected that, in any respect, the service, whether MÁV, Volánbusz or, where appropriate, motorway, will be substantially improved with these funds? I don't see all these things in any way. Once again, you have to remember the eight years. I myself say that it would be more appropriate to introduce trial years now, to say that we will try it for two or three years, and that they can still do that if it goes as you plan in 22 they will extend it to eight years, if it does not, they will give us the chance to adapt the following to Hungarian reality. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for the support and assistance of Congressman Gyula Molnár in fulfilling my duties as a citizen, and I may not be able to show up at the high offices for that very long. Yet indeed, the situation that arises in connection with this law deserves a few words. I'm used to taking account of what you've done. You have said that in relation to all laws, if it has a significant economic and social impact, you will prepare a study that is available to all of us, and on the basis of common information, you can make the best decision. In the event that there are 4 million citizens involved here, perhaps we can see this as having an impact if we look at the story and this proposal from this consumer side alone, and yet there is no such thing. So you have made a law about yourself that is not being followed properly, and otherwise you do not deal with making your thinking transparent, which would at least apply to this case. In this case, we would not only be able to talk about what will happen in the future and what opportunities there are in this which you are currently keeping hidden, and several of my fellow Members have already pointed out that, yes, there can be abuse within these frameworks that cannot be excluded. But before we deal with the future, let us look at it from the past, ladies and gentlemen, once the European Commission and the court have already made this decision, here you have said with great enthusiasm that, in the light of the court's decision, they are progressing accordingly. I'm going to ask you so quietly how much compensation was paid for the mischief and nationalization that they had done before, which, by the way, gave them this reprimand. How much did this cost to Hungarian citizens, Mr. Congressman Nacsa? Because you're here in riddles throwing big numbers, you're happy to refer to me, say things that have nothing to do with reality. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Disprove it! The president's ringing the bell.]] But here's a specific question, if you've done enough to pay anything for it anyway. If the court's verdict is carried out, I suspect, rather partially, but if not partially, but fully, then what did this story cost the voters? Because they make citizens pay the price of a real effort of power when they have mastered something, nationalised something, subscribed it to their own purposes, and now they make the situation that we are pleased that, as one of the otherwise transparent concession procedures in the European Union, the service provider should be pleased by the method chosen by you. That's how we remember how they did that. There was the settlement policy when, with a great decision, it was the Economic Commission led by Antal Rogán that chose the right holders and then to add this, not only the settlement policy, but also the right to the gambling concession, where the Minister of Finance declares someone reliable, and from that moment on, everything is fine, at least for you. We don't have any, and I'm joining those who, let's just say, express much more than their concerns about what's going to happen. It is true that I am almost certain that, as the traficconcession has been carried out, there should be such an immeasurable penalty for termination of contracts, or compensation for the State, which you prefer to support and put in a position for those who are beneficiaries and who enter into contracts at the expense of the State. After all this, it is very difficult to think of this in a different way than that I actually have to complement panic management with mid-life crisis management in this case, because if we remember what happened between the two electoral rounds in 2002, you know, Mr. Secretary of State, then there was still such a thing, then there was still a possibility and a possibility of two rounds of choice within the framework of the rule of law, then there was a great sweep from the public finances, the Treasury, everywhere. They took what they could, they signed in two weeks. These two weeks have been an educational period for everyone, for Hungarian citizens, but also for you. On the one hand, they will not allow it, because there are no two rounds, and on the other hand, the two years before it will be used to provide the benefits of all the foreign parking companies and parking companies that have arrived; others will also gain the benefits in these months that they will not leave for the last moment, but will now give them the positive opportunities that you have already given them. I see this, I perceive that since the municipal elections, since the possibility of the opposition, the voter's decision that there was enough of Fidesz governance has been made, you have priced it, you want to reduce the risk of that, and by the way, any opportunity that can be provided to a university or concession in a parking company is carried away. That's what they're doing now. If you hadn't noticed, Mr. Secretary, as you shake your head, then face this problem, that's the case. Consider and consider the fact that the majority of citizens have this opinion, even that. I'm not sure, but even that could happen, a situation like this could happen. We therefore fundamentally disagree on this specific law. Here you do not create the possibility of trusting in a transparent way that you do not abuse the situation. I am no longer talking about the relationship that this has with or how much it has been taken into account that Mr. Mayor of Tarlós at that time struggled for a long time during his leadership to introduce a well-functioning electronic ticket system within a municipal framework. [[12.50]] And then, by the way, the consequences of how many billion forints it cost the country, the miscarriage you did there, well, let's not talk about it again. Let us add them to the damage that I propose, to Congressman Nacsa, that he should always start writing on the top of the table, adding that as Fidesz government, how much damage has been done to this country. Terribly much. But sooner or later, we will add ourselves together, and we will get to the point that not only from the past, from the present, but also from this law, as this law seeks to do, it will be possible to expand everything you have done for the future. So, to sum up, this bill is unacceptable in this form. Obviously, here is the personal invention that my fellow Member has already referred to as the Deputy State Secretary for Economic Affairs of Antal Rogán, who, by the way, has been burned here and there, who is now being brought back here. He was brought back to the office who was going to do all this, so everything is very close to where the original idea was, so to speak, in this way you had time, and you did it. The parking system, as I said, was spent more than 10 billion forints during the previous Budapest city administration. So that's the amount you can write down, which is starting from minus. It will be difficult for you to fix this from this point of view, but I trust that my fellow wise Members and Gyula Molnár [[Defiance.]] among them, my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, will do so. I'm glad Mr. Secretary of State liked this idea so much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Freud!]] No! That was deliberate. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] from the point of view that the wisdom and the experience we have acquired over the past few years, we tell you that, but clearly you are unable to accept it. This, in turn, is causing this country an awful lot of damage, dear Congressman Nacsa. So would you please take out the sign, put it there, and start counting, so that you can deal with it later. Until then, we will not support this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Gyula Molnár and Antal Csárdi applaud.]]
u2020-12-01-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I think it wasn't worthy of you taking Gyula Molnár out of the wise representatives. But let's put this behind us. [[Defiance. László Varju: Thank you, Mr President.]] The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, there is a law before us, the essential elements of which will, at some point in the future, appear in the form of a government decree. Why I start with this is very simple, because, by definition, what effect this law will have in an economic sense, it is very difficult to say precisely today without knowing the numbers. But what we can see is that the new system you want to create is an escape to the future, if I may put it this way, it is clear that there is a full expansion of another sector in progress. Let's take a look. We know very well that this law is about parking, ticketing and possibly even selling tickets to MÁV. It is worth seeing how these companies are built. So far, there was a commission and a convenience fee, and the company that performed the service received the proceeds from two directions. Now, technically, you will have to pay a concession fee for the state, which is not yet known today, and, by the way, you will have to be able to produce this fee under the law in eight years, and beyond that, although you will be able to award a convenience fee, it is not clear from the bill that, for example, your commission can be, say, the maximum amount of this service. At the moment, we are going in the direction that we are now used to in the walls of this House, that you are trying to raise more money from another sector, and today you cannot say that, for example, the municipal revenues that are coming in from parking in Budapest will have to be given more of that to start phone-based parking. So far, I'm telling you, there was a 10% and a convenience fee, and now it's almost certain that this 10 percent is going to jump significantly, because, as I said, this company is going to have to make the concession fee, which goes right into the state's pocket, and it's going to make up for it, but certainly also the convenience fee in the commission. I wouldn't be surprised if this commission went up to 25 percent, which would mean that this system could take up up to a quarter of the parking revenues and not only those in Budapest, but also the parking revenues in Budapest. Another way to get their hands on the municipal revenues in the capital, another way to cut off another slice of the parking money you're already very fond of. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But it is worth going on, because the question can be asked from the point of view of the fact that I beg you why it has not been written in the law that it will win, because the year-on-day edition of the 16th edition on concessions. The amendment to the Act is very much in the direction that there is already the expected winner of this concession. In this amendment, you take out the obligation of the concession winner to create a domestic economic company, and I think that this initiative is once again very far-reaching. It is worth looking at: now you imagine that there will be an electronic service provider who will not even have a seat at home, who, by the way, knows where he is doing his taxes? Somewhere in the Union, in an offshore state, right? I think that this amendment does not come from the court judgment you so much like to refer to, as I think it is not right, and I think that, after the expected change of government of 22 we will have a lot to do with it, that they will try again to keep these revenues in your interests for eight years and long years. It is very difficult to give a calm and balanced speech here in relation to this law, because this law virtually completely renders impossible the single payment platform for parking planned by the capital, which is already in progress to the best of my knowledge, which will now completely lose its interpretation framework. On the other hand, despite spending tens of billions of forints on the e-ticket system in the last ten years, this is practically the same thing, going to the trash bin with one move. I think, to sum up, that there are three problems with this bill: it is, in effect, a very clever attempt to reach a sector; the other is a new, very clever cut in revenues, in municipal revenues; and the third problem is that it makes it possible, in practice, for the company carrying out the task to do so without paying taxes in Hungary. The May Other, according to Politics, this bill is outrageous and, mutatis mutandis, not eligible. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[13.00]]
u2020-12-01-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I salute my fellow Members. I would like to point out that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. The first independent congressman to apply is not in the courtroom. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted a two-minute comment.
u2020-12-01-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know you have a civic duty for László Varju to announce this, he left, but he did say that I was talking in riddles about the M5, M6 contracts, and he said it was a mess. You couldn't disprove any of the numbers I told you. Only in 2018, the year before last, 36 percent of total toll revenues had to be spent on 15 percent of the network charged. Therefore, 114 billion out of 315 billion e-vignettes and eu-tolls had to be used only to pay the PPP contracts of these two motorways, for the annual fee. The G7 economic paper calculated it, which cannot be accused of pro-governmentism, so that HUF 2853 billion was taken from Hungarian people because of these two contracts, because of the PPP contracts of the two motorways. Congressman Varju could not speak of this; he could not deny these figures that almost HUF 3 000 billion was missing from the Hungarian people, the Hungarian state register, for the past 15 years. This is where you start with the beginning of the list when you talk about damage. He couldn't talk about these figures, Congressman Varju, he just talked about how we were talking. It cannot deny these facts that even this year, HUF 150 billion should be spent only on the annual fees and replacements of PPP contracts, even in 2020. Even in 2021, this amount is over HUF 100 billion, my fellow Members, 15 years after the conclusion of these treaties! There are contracts that were concluded for 35 years, and then sold at a price when the stake could have been bought back. These are what we are talking about when we talk about the legacy and the concession we received, what terrible bad PPP construction contracts we had to face, that we still have to spend 150 billion forints on it, and a very large part of the toll income goes to the maintenance of those two small road sections because of these harmful contracts. That's what Laszlo Varju has to talk about. Thank you.
u2020-12-01-92	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I will give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes for two minutes, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-12-01-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, What Congressman Nacsa was talking about in his two-minute speech, we agree that this was a serious wrong decision. I think it's such a weight that, even in such a long time, criticism is justified, and we need to talk about it. This was the same inexplicably wrong decision, and it caused damage to the Hungarian nation as your Budapest-Belgrád project: you will renew or develop a railway line for nearly a thousand billion forints over 160 kilometres, to encrypt the documents that would be about possible exploitation guarantees. So you did exactly the same thing as your predecessors. If criticism is justified on one side, criticism is important on the other. My fellow Member, the criticism of what you have said is very important, but it is not credible from you, because it has caused the Hungarian national economy as much damage as the Balliberal governments that you criticized. But that's not really why I wanted to speak. Here, my fellow Member basically referred to the damage that this causes to the municipalities, including the Municipality of Budapest, but it is important that all the municipalities do. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that you have agreed with the local government associations, and you can now tell us, during the debate, what the local government associations think about this proposal. I have one more question. Yesterday was Minister Palkovic's hearing. When I mentioned the question of financing public transport, which is linked to this, there was some polarity. In September last year, the government gave your boss, Minister Palkovics, a task in a resolution to develop and propose a model of public funding for local public transport. This had to be done by the end of March. On the other hand, it is an extremely important public service, which is also a very serious burden for the municipalities in peacetime. On the other hand, such a proposal had been drawn up, such a bill was introduced here, and practically the state withdrew from the financing of local public transport, and during such a very difficult period, during a crisis, during a pandemic, they abandoned the cities in order to ensure this very important public service. That's what I want you to answer after yesterday's committee hearing, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-94	Thank you, Mr. Crusade. For two minutes I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-12-01-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, it's not my place to protect László Varju, but let's be a little more fair in that regard. There are moments in history when there is no unlimited free money available, such as for you in the last ten years, when most of the countries of our trading partners were in a good economic situation, when oil prices were deep, when EU loans were available, and you could use free resources to do certain things. Sometimes that's not the case. If you have to spend other money, I don't protect the PPP, I'm not in love with him either, but let's be realistic: motorways are built, motorways are here, and they really have to be paid for a long time. You gave me a 150 billion-dollar number, and you made it sound like it was some sort of horrific thing. The fact that you have to pay 150 billion a year for 10-15 years is also possible in the case of a more serious loan, or what you have just done, that free EU money has been invested in stone, we are not even talking about stadiums and other matters. So they didn't build a country out of this that makes a competitive economy, they let the multinationals turn Hungary into a assembly plant, and otherwise they built concrete elements that will have to be maintained. So, be fair. When they look back on you in ten years, it'll be as embarrassing as you do. The other one in my last 20 seconds, the thing is, you know, if you put a screen in front of the stinker, the stinky one's gonna pass. So the problem here is they're trying to put something in front of a case that happened at some point, and it was really wrong, but those of us on the other side of the screen, you know, it's not our eyes, it's our feelings. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Sándor F Kovács for two minutes.
u2020-12-01-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It was said in a very important sentence by Gyula Molnár that you did not have unlimited availability of money so you now have unlimited availability of money. But if that is the case, and we accept the item that you said, then the only thing that proves very eloquently is that the government in which you played an active role Medgyessy, Gyurcsány, Bajnai, carried on an economic policy that the country was poor had to conclude such bad contracts. That the current government, as you say, currently has money at its disposal, this proves that this government is a good steward, has a good farm and can solve these constructions from its own strength, from the resources available. You said so, and this is proof that one government has done a shamefully poor job, and the other government, the current Orbán government, is well-managed and well-handled with the goods that are available. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2020-12-01-99	Mr President, Dear House, My dear pro-government colleague. Let's not treat each other like clowns, that's my respectful request. If you're so good with taxpayers' assets, because they're not government donations, they're taxpayers, you know, what you're redistributing would be the basics and the entry category, then why do we need 900 billion loans now? Tell me, my fellow Member, how about you push a normal one, explain it to us, ignorant ones, we will listen to you. This year, they did not issue their first foreign exchange bond. Why? If the economy is so good, why do you have to borrow a thousand billion? If we're doing so well, why does Budapest-Belgrád need a million-billion-dollar Chinese loan? You had to be so much that in these two financial years almost HUF 200 billion of taxpayers' money was invested in this construction that could have been used to make up for lost wages, or just to test the entire country out of this 200 billion, almost all of it. If we continue here, then, I ask you, if we're doing so well, how did the 20 thousand billion-dollar government debt in the area of 2010 become 34,000 billion? They can cover up by the percentage of GDP, but the volume of our indebtedness has increased amazingly by more than one and a half times. [[13.10]] And if you are so proud of yourselves, please explain how it could have happened that more than 13,000 families have been evicted in Hungary since 2010 without accommodation. Is this your successful economic policy? I'm looking forward to your explanation.
u2020-12-01-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr László Keresztes, you have applied for a normal speech.
u2020-12-01-101	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I didn't really want to comment, but I was also moved by Mr President's comment to try to ask back then, as Mr Dániel Z. Karpát rightly did. Honourable Congressman, A brutal pandemic has also reached Hungary. The crisis that has developed is shocking, a social and economic crisis. We are presenting the proposals aimed at helping families in the most difficult situation, and President Erik Bánki is basically arguing when they are swept off the table that there is no money in the register at the meeting of the Economic Committee. Why is there no money? Is there any money to start the Budapest-Belgrád railway line that brings 300 billion to Lőrinc Mészáros's company this year or to start its project this year? Only this year and next year, you spend enough on this project to create 175 thousand new jobs. And on the other hand, when we presented it, my fellow Member Csárdi worked a great deal to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%. You could make a lot of that money. But my fellow Member, Péter Ungár, has told me many times at various press conferences and Parliament that social workers, workers who work in the labour sector, deserve a one-time allowance of HUF 500 000, and your fellow Members have said that there is no money in the register. What are you talking about, fellow Member? I am very confident that you will defend your position, now press a button and explain the statement you just made. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-102	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi for two minutes, LMP.
u2020-12-01-103	Thank you very much. I can see that the debate is coming to an end, and I have only one request to the Secretary of State to express it in his closing words, so please let us all be clear, because unfortunately, the law does not allow this to be made possible by the 10 percent commission so far, so the service provider has paid 10 percent of its revenues in connection with parking, or has received from the parking service provider, and has received from any other service provider what it estimates, how much it will increase in this new system. As I said, on the one hand, you will have to produce the concession fee that has not yet existed and, on the other hand, you will also want to produce the convenience fee that has now been abolished. So what are you guessing, what percentage out of ten you think is going to rise to the level that is expected to increase the commission rate? Just because I'd like to make a bet with you for two sports slices. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Schanda Tamás, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have a 30-minute window, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-01-105	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the opportunity. I'm also trying to meet the demands of the president, both expressed and unspoken. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to try to respond in detail to what has been said in this debate, and I hope that I will be able to successfully resolve the doubts that may still remain in some opposition representatives, and I will end up encouraging you to support the bill, because it is an important bill. On the one hand, Congressman Z. Karpat indicated that my expo was short. I take that as a compliment, not a criticism, Mr. Congressman, but if you want, I would be happy to talk about this bill for a longer time. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's so good that it's not worth...]] I really can talk about it longer, but I was hoping I'd told you all the essentials. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, he resented the fact that the concession was to be issued for eight years, which has also been said in several speeches. I have to admit, I don't think that's much, I don't think that's enough. [[Antal Csárdi keeps interrupting.]] I think that eight years is not a long time, because on the one hand, it is the judgment of the European Court of Justice that precisely expects the winner of the concession to be able to generate some kind of profit, and on the other hand, if the concession was to be issued for a shorter period, then the balance sheet of the concession contract should be turned positive in a very short time. This would mean a significant increase in costs. On the other hand, this would result in unjustified costs for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and startup companies that will be resellers of this system, since if the central system changes, everyone else will have to make the necessary IT developments. In Hungarian, it really is that this is not a long time, it is a short-term contract in the case of such a service, because the costs of adaptation, the costs of technology change would arise, which I think, if you think about it, is not really intended to burden Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people. So I hope you understand that this is more complex than just replacing an IT system. This may also have serious costs. Mr Z. Kárpat also suggested that it was not a European solution. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I'm sorry, Congressman. Let's go back here because I may have had a short expo. What we are talking about here, Congressman, is that the National-Citizen Government has set up a system that is now in operation. This has also resulted in a significant increase in services for Hungarian citizens. We think this system is otherwise good; its benefits must be retained. And not us, but the European Union, the European Court of Justice, said at the initiative of the European Commission that this system is no longer sustainable. Congressman! If you do not consider the judgment of the European Court of Justice a European solution, there is a serious problem. Besides, we would have liked to have maintained this current system, but we accept the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I understand that this is not always the case for you, although it is difficult for me to place your fellow Member's extremely pro-European speech before the morning agenda. [[Z. Kárpat Dániel: We'll talk about it...]] It's a matter of convenience. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that there has been an infringement procedure and a European court process. In this process, it is not appropriate to touch the text of the law. We wanted to wait for the end of this, to conclude these processes, and after that, indeed, this annoying cost, this annoying fee can be imposed, so we consider the abolition of the convenience fee important, and we now propose this. My request is not to vote against the abolition of the convenience fee. When you do not support this bill, not only do you want to execute the judgment of the European Court of Justice, but you want to continue to make the convenience fee pay to Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. [[Antal Csárdi:]] Let me also draw attention to the fact that Mr Z. Kárpat also spoke about the possibility of restarting every three hours. This can indeed be an annoying thing, but, Congressman, it is not a question of a centralised system, it is not a question of this law. The regulation of parking is a municipal authority. So be kind, honourable Member, if you are disturbed by the parking system in the capital, then go to the mayor of Gergely Christmas, who is supported by you, to find his Balliberal allies, and you are in good company, and then you can talk about whether this system is worth transforming or not. I'm not sure you'll achieve undivided success by suggesting this, but despite this, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] we cannot regulate this issue. And I think that we would get serious criticism from you if we tried to override the government's sovereign decision-making rights in this direction, by the way, by law or even by government decree. We have hats, no hats, I understand this situation, but, honourable Member, allow me to argue that it is worth keeping in municipal power, there you know the key to solving this problem, and I suggest that you try to deal with it there as well. [[13.20]] It was considered whether the European Commission had accepted this. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that the European Commission knows the text of the law and the text of the relevant government regulations and considers it appropriate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The European... Congressman behind me says there was no freedom fight. Wrong, Congressman. I understand that if we're wearing hats, that's a problem, and if we're not wearing hats, that's a problem. But what we are talking about, Mr President, is that we have carried out an infringement procedure, we have carried out a European court procedure, and we have carried out the judgment of the European Court of Justice, as in every case when we do not agree, and we are bound and enforced by the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Congressman, that's what I'm talking about. My request is to accept that we have done everything we can, we have gone through the process, we have argued for the Hungarian interest, and otherwise we have developed a solution that is also in line with the judgment of the European Court of Justice. The question of P+R parking has also been raised. This is also not a matter relating to the law, and it is a municipal task. So I can continue to tell Mr President that we may not be the ones who have to redisputate this. I would also like to confirm what Congressman Nacsa has said about motorway stickers. If he had not been indebted to impossible constructions, it would be much more free to think about these issues. So what we are talking about here is the burden of contracts in the order of 100 billion which are covered by the sale of motorway stickers. I would like to point out to Congressman Molnár that the question of centralisation has been raised, that the system has worked centrally so far. What is happening now is that this is not done in a manner defined by state law, but in a concession procedure. Once again, we're not changing this system on our own, we're changing it as a result of a court ruling. However, the maintenance of the central system is justified, because otherwise more operators would create non-cooperative systems. It wouldn't be in anyone's best interest. And it wouldn't be in your best interest that in small settlements, and in the case of small service providers, no one would sign with them. In Hungarian, there would be settlements where you can't pay a fee in this more convenient way. That can't be in your best interest. Congressman, you know that this cannot be in our interest to impose a disproportionate burden on small settlements and punish those living there. So that's why it's important to have a central control of this. Once again, we have had a good system, so we are not bringing this change to the Honourable Parliament on our own. The question of local governments has also been raised by Mr Molnár. I do not want to talk about this too long, but let me point out that it is much better for a municipality today than in the period of government before 2010. This is just a comparison between the loan portfolio and the cash stock: HUF 1400 billion of debt, and now the entire system is marked by a reserve of HUF 1500 billion. The question was also raised by a former Member in the context of the European Commission's consultation. They used to be on the government, but let me confirm that the negotiations have been properly negotiated, and the European Commission is familiar with the legislation. Privatization has come up. Congressman, the Socialist Party has a serious routine in privatisation, I understand that, but allow me to draw attention to the fact that the concession model is not privatisation. We are talking about two very different things, so I do not think the two questions should be confused. The level of commission has also been raised. The level of commission will be decided in the concession procedure, as the participants will compete with each other, they will be able to compete under each other and downhill, and then the exact amount of the commission will be fixed by the concession contract. All calculations show that this will happen at a lower level than the current commission, otherwise. Or allow me to reassure Congressman Molnár that the MÁV will be able to sell, of course. What this system means is that it's not just MÁV that can sell. The MÁV has also developed its own system through which its sale can take place, but it must also be connected to the central system, and other providers will also be able to sell the necessary tickets and passes. Congressman Varju talked long about how much the previous decisions of the Hungarian State on private service providers in the pre-one system cost, how much it cost, and how we do not remember this, in order to have a national mobile payment system at all. This was a well-sounding three to four-minute part of his speech, but let me reassure him, at least for the record, that it was a perfectly functioning DK cover-up again, another element of the Fake news factory, because it did not cost the Hungarian State a penny, no compensation was paid, and no compensation would be made. That's the thing. You can talk about it for a long time, but it's not true. Congressman Nacsa then answered about the PPP motorways about the old crimes in the construction of motorways, who is the practice of the treaty at the expense of the state and who is not. I wouldn't talk about it much longer, so I wouldn't even talk about it. There was also a sentence by Congressman Varju about what will happen now with the contracts with the state company, and there will be certain compensations. Here, too, I would like to reassure you that the concession will inherit these contracts, so it cannot be discussed here. I hope you're not talking about my personal midlife crisis, I hope you're still out there, about the fact that more foreign companies are coming in, and they're gonna give me something. Honestly, I don't understand. Most of all, this may indicate that I did not manage to explain the purpose of the bill in sufficient depth in the expozee, because it will be the winner of a piece, by the way, of the concession tender. There can't be any more, because then it all doesn't make sense. So I didn't fully understand this, but maybe it was my fault or I explained it wrong in the beginning. I was also surprised to note that the implementation of a European judicial decision is not supported by the Democratic Coalition for the United States of Europe, which, by the way, is fighting for a completely nonsensical idea. It is an interesting question what the rule of law means to you if the judgment of the European Court of Justice does not have to be enforced. The development of e-ticket systems in the capital does not really have anything to do with this, as mobile payments will continue to be possible in cooperation with developments there. Mr Csárdi also suggested that this should not be adopted and should not be supported. I would like to draw attention to this fact that there is a lump sum fine in this case, EUR 1 million and a daily penalty payment, which may be between EUR 1200 and EUR 76 000 per day. I respectfully ask that Hungary does not want to have to pay this fine and do not fight against the execution of a European court ruling. I would also like to say to the Member that the Government Regulation is ready, the European Commission has seen it. It is expected that there will be a reduction in commissions and that there will indeed be competition at European level for concesorial tasks, but that is the characteristic of this competition. And with regard to parking in the capital, if there is a single parking, be it, I am very rooting, not per district, then this IT system and settlement system that we are creating will also be able to serve this, so there is no disadvantage to the thinking of the capital. Mr. Crusade, I don't know if I can stand up in Parliament without having to answer about BuBe if we're in the same room. Allow me to make one argument in the last debate on the previous bill, so that it does not attack a railway investment that reduces the length of access to our brothers in Vojvodina by half and a third, because it is unworthy of you, who is otherwise committed to the cause of Hungarians across the border. [[13.30]] I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that it is indistinguishable for the municipalities that the current system is going on, or that this is what we are talking about here, the concession system, because for them it does not really have any significance. And with regard to local public transport, allow me to draw your attention to one thing. Just yesterday we launched a green bus program worth billions of forints, which can be used to support local public transport. I hope that many applications will arrive, and we will be able to support many good projects so that electric buses can also appear in local community transport. There are good practices for this, and you know it very well, for example, there are excellent buses in Pécs with government support. The congressman knows the situation in Pécs. I've had the pleasure of handing the buses over to the city's management, with government support, the fleet was renewed there. I think there's still a need for improvements like this. We are promoting these developments, but I am asking you not to attack these greening programmes, the green bus programme and support for local transport. Congressman Molnár raised questions about competitiveness. I would like to say that, in the case of the European Union funds you mentioned, we are spending much more on increasing competitiveness, supporting the economy than we did during the period of the socialists. There they spent 16 percent on this, we have 60 percent on this, and we will continue to increase it in the next cycle. There was a lot of other stuff here that wasn't even related to the bill. I think that the debate on the current bill may not be the best way to discuss the issue of public bonds in connection with the renewal of the BuBe loan and the exit of foreign exchange bonds. This morning, before the agenda, there was a political debate in Parliament, and I had the pleasure to answer that question. If there are any further questions, I will try to repeat what I said this morning. Moreover, Mr Z. Kárpát knows precisely that debt counts primarily in terms of GDP, not nominally. I think they taught him that in college. If not, there would be a demand. Congressman Csárdi has offered a reception. My suggestion is not to put it on the record, but I'm ready for it. Thank you very much for your attention. With all due respect, I ask the Parliament to support the adoption of the bill in a uniform manner after all the objections which I hope have been answered in detail. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-106	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, I declare that in today's decisions the number of votes cast has been wrongly announced in two cases. The 2015 CXLIII on public procurement Act T/13474, amending certain related laws The number of votes cast in the final vote on the number of applications was correctly 114 yes, 11 no and 45 abstentions. Chapter XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning T/13475. The number of votes cast in the final vote on the number of proposals was correctly 113 yes, 59 no and there was no abstention. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that this does not change the outcome of the vote. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to regulate higher education and to amend certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/13956. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-01-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The main objective of the bill before you is to amend the law on national higher education, which will make the regulation more modern. This will allow our higher education institutions to participate more flexibly and with fewer constraints in international research, student exchanges and other international projects. The new regulation also makes funding for higher education more transparent. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the National Higher Education Act aims to meet market needs and improve the functioning of higher education institutions. In order to make the launch of higher education courses more flexible, the legislation containing certain higher education courses will be at ministerial level according to the draft. Training and output requirements are published as official communications, helping to adapt training to flexible labour market demand. Under the proposal, students who are less qualified in initial education may not necessarily have to leave education in order to avoid early school leaving, and they may further transfer to one of the higher education vocational training courses. In order to internationalise our higher education, the draft puts training and output requirements into institutional competence in the case of joint training of programmes from European Union sources, similar to professional training. This more favourable rule also covers training financed by the Visegrad Fund and the Central European Higher Education Exchange Programme. The Diploma Supplement must be published not only in Hungarian or English, but also in the foreign language of the training. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill, our higher education will also take a step towards digitalisation. The learning system of higher education institutions should also be able to support the basic tasks of the institutions as well as closed electronic distance learning. The bill contains amendments to the laws that ensure the long-term operation of public-service trust foundations. Each amendment concerns the basic rules on the allocation of assets and the provision of public tasks and financing to trust foundations. The aim of the bill is to fill in the national higher education law the regulatory hiatus by which public and civil legal relations become distinct from each other. It becomes clear that, as a general rule, the maintenance and owner are identical, one and the same persons. If, on the basis of the civil law agreement, the owner decides to transfer the exercise of the maintenance rights to another person, the owner or the maintainer may legally divorce each other. At the same time, Article X of the Fundamental Law guarantees that ownership rights should not extend to areas covered by higher education autonomy. Dear Parliament, The new regulation makes funding for higher education institutions predictable in the long term, provides stable funding frameworks, takes into account the different dimensions of higher education activities and their specific funding requirements. The amendment of the Law on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas allows the holder of the so-called European Professional Card to request information on his data, in accordance with the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. [[13.40]] This allows automatic recognition of foreign scientific degrees obtained in accredited higher education institutions. It has been almost two years since the entry into force of the Education Register Act. The legislation and its subject matter, the single education register, are fundamentally successful. However, during this time, the experience in the application of the law has highlighted in some places the need for clarification that the bill before you will do. The amendment of the Law on the status of civil servants also clarifies the requirements for law-employed persons to determine the salary progression of civil servants to determine the qualification of qualifications, qualifications and qualifications. This option would be available after 1 January 2020 in order to comply with the terms of the National Training Note. The amendment makes clear the rules for the qualification of higher or secondary vocational education and training in terms of professional qualifications that can still be obtained in the National Training Note system until 2024 and the qualifications that can be obtained in the new vocational training system under the Hungarian Qualifications Framework. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts and related laws responds to practical experience and needs in the operation, organizational life of the Hungarian Academy of Arts and aims to implement the strategic plans of the public body. The proposal takes into account organisational stability, the effectiveness of the activities and processes of the public body. The amendments concern the internal functioning of the public body, in this context the government has taken into account certain directions and concepts of the legislative amendment adopted by the General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which constitutes the operational background of the public body. Thanks to certain elements of the proposal, the public body decision-making mechanism will be accelerated, while remaining verifiable. It was also a unique solution at international level to introduce an artist's allowance, which ensured a life-long, fair and regular remuneration for persons aged 65 and over who received individual artistic awards. As a public administration authority, the Secretariat of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which organises and manages the public tasks of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, will carry out official tasks related to the establishment of an artistic allowance from 1 January 2018. The proposal contains clarification amendments in the context of the administrative procedure for establishing an artistic benefit. In this context, it is necessary to amend the laws on the registration of citizens' personal data and address and on social security pensions in order to allow the MMA Secretariat to request data from statutory registers for the performance of its statutory duties in relation to an artistic pension. Dear Parliament, As the bill serves to improve the functioning of higher education institutions, it also proposes to amend the law on media services and mass communication to this end. In this context, it also proposes some of the provisions of the Media Services and Public Communications Act. In the light of the changes, the rules for assessing and establishing the results of the media service tender procedures issued by the Media Council will be simplified. The rules for paying the media service fee for media services will also be amended according to market needs, and monthly payments will be optional once a year instead of quarterly payments. These aim to enable regulation to follow and adapt to the transformation of the media market, changing consumer needs. On the basis of legislative experience, the rules for paying the media service fee in instalments are laid down by law on the basis of the draft. Easing the broadcasting requirement for audiovisual media services contributes to the broadening of editorial freedom and is also intended to amend advertising time regulations for all non-commercial media services. By amending the provisions on ad hoc temporary media services, it is now possible to carry out media services on a wider spectrum of resources, which will be complemented by an increase in eligibility periods. The subject area of connection to the network is clarified by the amendment of the law. There are also changes to regulations that clearly define the rules for the provision of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund's reserve for the payment of its additional revenue to the central budget, in line with the commitments made to the European Commission in addition to the Hungarian legislation. Dear Parliament, The Artist of Nemzet Prize can be awarded to the highest performance representatives of the Hungarian cultural life, which is entitled to a maximum of 70 persons at once under the MMA Act. The legislator provides for the possibility of becoming a member of the Academy in the event of the intention of the person to join the prized person and in accordance with the Statutes, in a simplified procedure. The special procedure is also in line with the general membership rules, since the general assembly also decides to become a member in this case. In order to enforce this, it is necessary for the legislator to increase the upper limit of the number of ordinary members of the MMA, so that the persons holding the title of Artist of the Nation can become ordinary members. It is proposed that the upper limit of the normal number of members of 250 may be increased to 315 persons. The members of the presidency of the Hungarian Academy of Arts and the heads of department are officers of the MMA under the law. The public body experience of the official elections shows that there is no need for the statutory requirement that the academic status of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which has existed for at least two years at the time of the election, should become an official of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. In addition to the officials, the same can be found for the members of the Supervisory Board from the academics of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The legislator no longer intends to impose a requirement that at least two years of academic history in the case of any official and member of the supervisory board are required, but it is necessary that all officials and members of the board of directors elected by the general assembly of the supervisory board are from among academics. The legislator also lays down the requirements for the election of the President, the two Vice-Presidents, the Secretary-General, the Honorary President, four members of the Presidency from among academics and the heads of the board, as well as academic members of the Supervisory Board, on the basis of the same principle. Dear Parliament, The General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Arts shall elect the Secretary-General of the Hungarian Academy of Arts from among the academics elected at least two years ago, according to the provisions of the Act amending certain cultural and sporting laws and certain related laws which will enter into force from 1 January 2021. The current rules do not link the role of secretary-general to academic membership. The introduction of the provision in force from 1 January 2021 significantly and unduly reduces the number of persons who can be elected to the Secretary-General, and we therefore propose that the amending provision not enter into force. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is strictly justified in the case of the Hungarian Institute for Research, acting as a cultural strategic institution. The implementation of the tasks set out in the Government Decree on the establishment of the Hungarian Institute of Research and the amendment of the related legislation requires that the Institute also be entitled to carry out archaeological exploration. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I ask you to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-108	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. István Hiller and Vice-President Brenner Koloman would like to speak during today's debate. The Members of the Vice-Presidents shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament, which agrees that István Hiller and Vice-President Brenner Koloman will be able to hold the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of the Honourable Parliament has accepted the motion. [[13.50]] Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-12-01-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The one in front of us, T/13956. Law No. 1 covers a lot of laws, and many used to call it the salad law. Classically, it is, because it involves a lot of laws, but let's add immediately that this covers basically two major topics, and looks must necessarily be taken into account for other laws related to, or closely linked to, them. The proposal submitted is the 2011 CCIV on national higher education on the one hand. The aim is to amend Law No 1 and therefore a large number of other laws are linked to this and, on the other hand, it contains proposals for certain cultural laws, as it turned out from the presentation of the Secretary of State. The bill therefore essentially serves the effectiveness of the functioning of higher education institutions and, as I have already said, envisages changes in a number of areas, thus proposing amendments to a number of other laws linked to this objective. For example, the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. on the identification methods replacing the identification mark and identification codes of 1996, Article XX. It concerns Act C of 2001 on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, Act X of 2006 on cooperatives, by virtue of the School Cooperatives Act of 2007 on State Property. Act CLXXXI of 2007 on State aid for public funds. Act LXXVII of 2013 on Adult Education Act No. 18 on the Education Register, LXXXIX of 2018. Act or Act XIII of 2019 on Trust Foundations Law. In what areas are changes foreseen and changes to the proposals submitted? On the one hand, as was the case in the expozee, it is about the functioning of higher education institutions, the scope of changes affecting training, which also allow for more flexible operation and are aimed at greater compliance with market needs. In order to make the launch of training more flexible, the legislation containing certain higher education courses would be subject to ministerial regulation. The government is authorised to regulate, by regulation, the specializations and specializations of teacher training, the optional equals, specializations, the general rules of the specialisation system and the rules on doctoral training. This obviously allows for a much faster and more effective response to specific situations. It has been said that, in order to avoid drop-out, low-performing students in initial education would be eligible for higher education training. This obviously means a serious bureaucratic and procedural facilitation. It is welcome that the National Scientific Student Council is becoming a legal personality; this, I think, is a major opportunity to make progress in terms of talent management. As a result of the 2020 legislative amendments, not only a state higher education institution, but also a higher education institution registered in Hungary, operating in the maintenance of a trust fund, can maintain a public education or vocational training institution, such as the University of Miskolc. There is also a serious clarification that the calculation of the deadline for the administration of the Education Office starts the day following the receipt of the MAB expert opinions. This will be an opportunity to prevent a number of previous unworthy debates. Article 47 § 2 states when the condition of the permanent teaching-research staff of higher education institutions is met and specifies that at least 60 percent of the teachers and researchers required to carry out the basic activity of the higher education institution are employed in the framework of an employment relationship or a public employment relationship. This is still important in that regard, because previously there were also anomalies of interpretation in this regard. The bill also seeks to strengthen the international outlook and relationship system of higher education. In this context, as has been said, it will make the performance of joint training more flexible for students, and this favourable rule also covers the Visegrad Fund and the training funded by the Central European Higher Education Exchange Programme. As has been said, the regulation on Diploma Supplements, I do not wish to repeat this, but this is also an important step. The Act on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas is supplemented by the fact that the determining authority will carry out the naturalisation procedure without examination if the foreign educational institution issuing the scientific degree has been accredited as a full member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education by an organisation registered in the European Quality Assurance Register. In fact, in the case of foreign academic degrees obtained in accredited higher education institutions, recognition is automatic, at least that is what the bill proposes. It has been said that the bill is taking major steps forward with regard to digitalisation of higher education, and that it makes proposals for closed electronic distance learning and contains ideas to strengthen it. There are also proposals on economic issues and provisions relating to the financial conditionality and functioning of higher education institutions can be found in the bill. The question of asset allocation to various trust foundations has been addressed by the Secretary of State, so I will not discuss it again. However, I would like to highlight the element which was not mentioned in the expozee, but I consider it an important element, namely that the company established by the institutional company, the higher education institution, is not legally a state-owned company, but that the rules on state-owned companies should apply to them. This essentially represents a different status for asset management and gives a more flexible opportunity to create tangible, daily practical elements of cooperation between higher education institutions and the corporate sphere. By the way of the Cooperatives Act, I mentioned at the outset that this concerns the issue of student or school cooperatives, namely that it seeks to simplify a bureaucratic procedure: in the case of a student in school cooperatives, it should not be burdened with any reporting and administrative obligations. The various elements of the educational register legislative proposals contain clarifications. It contains clarifications, changes to the register of personal data, and the same in the context of adult education. Here, too, a significant reduction in the reporting burden or administrative relief is the goal. In the case of cultural laws, I expressly welcome the inclusion of the Hungarian Institute for Research as an institution entitled to carry out archaeological explorations. I think this is important because in recent years we have seen that there are quite serious archaeological discoveries attached to the Hungarians Research Centre. So far, this has been able to do so by concluding a cooperation agreement with the actors who have been entitled to archaeological exploration. According to the current law, the following bodies have been entitled to archaeological exploration: the Hungarian National Museum, the Budapest Historical Museum, regional museums with county scope, regional museums with archeological collections, higher education institutions with the right to conduct a master's degree in archaeology, the Archaeology Institute of the Research Centre for Humanities of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network and the statutory heritage protection body. This is what the Hungarian Institute of Research would catch up to. So far, what I know is that in Tokaj, serious discoveries were made at the Church of the Lady of Great Happiness, the cemetery and partly at the Castle of Tokaj, at Kiskunfélegyháza, and in cooperation with the István Dobó Museum of Eger, Abasar, an X. and a XIV. The excavation of the century church was carried out. [[14.00]] With this legislative amendment, their work and activities are obviously exempt from more administrative burdens and, in this sense, will be easier and hopefully even more effective. Regarding the Hungarian Academy of Arts, Minister of State also said a lot. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that several regulations are in fact the analogy of the MTA. Here, most of all, this mailing member should be interpreted in the context of a regular member, so the regulation of scientific and artistic communities in Hungary would be synchronized in this sense and in many respects. The Secretary of State mentioned or spoke about the amendment of the Media Services Act in detail, so I do not wish to repeat this. Finally, I would just like to note that there are a lot of points in the bill, even in a broad sense, which includes a classic so-called legal proposal, language-place changes, textual clarifications, spelling or stylistic corrections, word exchanges and so on. Thus, they are very extensive, but they no longer represent substantive changes. I think, honourable House, ladies and gentlemen, that the legislative proposals that have been adopted over the past year have now been included in this, while life, by its very nature, brings out where nuance, clarification and amendment are needed. I trust you will find broad support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-110	Thank you very much, Congressman László Pósán. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman is not in the Chamber.]]
u2020-12-01-111	Thank you, Mr. President. And yet I have so enthusiastically contributed to my vote that Brenner Koloman will be able to express his opinion. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the national Christian Democratic Government aims to build an efficient, competitive national higher education system, which is marketable, modern, XXI. It gives a century-old, usable, real knowledge and practice for a degree. In the last decade, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, more resources and attention were also focused on the Hungarian higher education system. Several new university campuses, colleges have been built or built in the last ten years, and employers are lining up for students from Hungarian universities. The rapid shift in the global economy in recent years, the new digital industrial revolution ahead of us, has demonstrated the need for a model change in order to ensure the future competitiveness of higher education. For the sake of more efficient and up-to-date higher education, the managers of eight higher education institutions have come to trust foundations in the last two years, where a market-based, performance-based approach is promoted rather than a secure but limited framework for public care. In a new model that has been successfully operating in Hungary but in Western Europe and North America, and even in Southeast Asia, the institutions can respond more quickly to economic needs and the institutions have a greater opportunity to exploit the market opportunities and international cooperation. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz is replaced by Dr. László Varga in the notary seat.]] In addition, in the new model, universities can operate significantly more freely than public supervision, thus achieving university autonomy even more. This will enable young Hungarians to receive more competitive training and more valuable education in the labour market. The aim of the bill before us is to further improve the quality of higher education, to further support higher education students and to further increase the competitiveness of higher education courses. In addition to general medical and veterinary training, the bill states that it will be possible to participate in doctoral training for students of pharmacists and dentists before obtaining the diploma and, in view of the specific nature of the training, to clarify the concepts of doctoral training, academic year and semester. According to the bill, in order to avoid early school leaving, students who are less qualified in initial education will also be eligible for higher education, as well as the aim of the higher education institution will be the early career guidance activity, which I consider to be extremely important, since career guidance mentorship, career guidance advice is an institution, an important tool that needs to be used in early years of students, so that they can clearly see the course and adapt their studies and traineeships to it. The goal remains unchanged: not only do we need as many students as possible, but we need more valuable, useful graduates. As a result of the amendment of the law, higher education institutions operating in the maintenance of not only a state higher education institution, but also a trust fund registered in Hungary can maintain a public education institution or a vocational training institution. The coronal virus epidemic has demonstrated the need for much more digital solutions in higher education than previously. To this end, the bill states that the study system of higher education institutions should also be able to support closed electronic distance learning. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] The bill also includes amendments to promote internationalisation of higher education. The definition of training and output requirements for joint training in the framework of EU funding programmes, as well as for vocational training, will make the performance of joint training more flexible for students. This more favourable rule also covers training financed by the Visegrad Fund and the Central European Higher Education Exchange Programme. The current and recent amendments to the Hungarian higher education system serve the interests of students on the one hand. The goal is no less than to make young Hungarians participating in Hungarian higher education the winners of the future. On the other hand, the aim of higher education transformations is for Hungarian universities to play a central role in Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation, and for Hungary to become a regional knowledge centre. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-112	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Indeed, my fellow Member Hiller and I have had a long dilemma, since he traditionally deals with higher education and education matters, but then, when we were more involved in the bill, we had no illusion that it was really just that higher education was put in front of a rather serious package as a disguise. If we say it's a salad law, we'll say a nice word like that, but let's just say, with salads and salads and salads, I don't know what to say, I could tell you a lot longer. They amend 12 laws: the status of civil servants, the register of citizens' personal data, the museum law, many things, national higher education, the education register, but there are two things that I would like to talk about in any case, and it is worth talking about and making clear why we will not be able to support them, no matter how much Minister of State will at the end say convincing sentences to us as to why we are wrong and why it would be right to vote for them. I clearly believe that this fits in with the package that you are making because you are becoming less and less convinced that this power can be held in this form in 2022 and that you are increasingly working on how, how, until that period, public funds can be drawn up so that, as far as possible, you can convey your own policies in the most effective way. The second is that, after 2022, the standing government will be in the most difficult position to accomplish either its own intentions or, if appropriate, to carry out matters without the influence of the people appointed by you or the constructions you have created, you can do this. It is interesting, however, that in the law on the regulation of higher education, you are the ones who are taking the trouble to increase the advertising time of public television by about 50 percent. They increase the advertising time of public television by 50 percent in the main programme bands and in the programme bands that follow, amend the rules on European content, modify the possible rules for winning the tender; the public service television that already has an extremely significant public budget, and in the last few days, weeks, we have seen how peacefully, leniently, and democratically, they speak about the possible movement of opposition politicians. And it is also quite obvious that here, not only are BBC principles, not only on the basis of some principles, but also on the basis of normality, some editors work here and things work here. [[14.10]] I think that doesn't cause any problems anymore, but the problem is that there are a few million people in Hungary who, for technical reasons, have virtually ceased or ceased access to normal media and are forced to watch what you suggest in this case. I am not talking about the fact that the unfortunate Hungarian man who wants to see the Hungarian national team will have to suffer one minute there. What I'm trying to say to you, Mr. Secretary, and through you, everyone, that these powers don't usually last, they work for a long time, they actually seem very beautiful from the Chief's office, when you look at the reports, how many times and what we've managed to convey to the people, the only problem is that, permanently, when the reality and the picture you're suggesting separates from each other, and for a long time, that's the way people end, it's very, very bad. And I would also be happy to see in some way how the law on higher education fits into the fact that it is possible to leave the money on public television, and that their money can be managed freely from here on out. Therefore, in addition to State aid, the additional revenues remain. That's what they say, it's almost an election budget, it's almost an election funding for public television. And then let's look at the other thing we think is that these dozens of camouflage nets have been thrown in: this is obviously the case of the government's public trust fund. I continue to think that, and here we have decided with my fellow Member, Mr Hiller, Vice-President, that it is better for me to say this, because it is clearly a cover story that will definitely cover up real intentions. This is about how and how it can be permanently embedded in these public trusts, both in assets and in later operations. Obviously, you will say, and you also say, please, in a normal world, these are completely traditional things. Yes, that's certainly true. If this process had already started, it might have been worth it, which would have been the result of these, going towards trust management, because you have somehow mixed the German and Anglo-Saxon models, because they have created the German model in terms of the operation and model of trust foundations, but in fact, they have gone to trust management with appointments, the appointment of their own clientele, the appointment of economic interest groups, and, in practice, these people are irreplaceable and unrecallable. It is quite clear to us that when we talk about how you say that the foundation is transparent, we think that there is a huge difference here between an ordinary foundation and the foundations created. After all, an average foundation for the purpose, according to its founder's intention, collects certain funds and transmits them to the place of use, but these foundations do significantly more, these foundations also operate these institutions, or they run through something, they will obviously take such a scale that sooner or later they will create some trustees separately, and they will be clearly directly involved and able to say how, how it works. The key in this regard is, in our view, to understand that, therefore, we do not take this kindly to the fact that, with the establishment of these trust foundations, this can break up 100% with the intention of its founder. This means that at any time there is any change in the founder's person, in this case the representatives of the State, then these public trust funds can function entirely independently and in a completely sovereign way, unlike the government's intention. In fact, it is clear here that we also see how, where appropriate, these public assets are transferred to private property. So, Mr Secretary of State and my dear fellow Member Pósán, despite all the nice words you have formulated here in this law, we can see precisely that certain things are covered up by these apparent, fake cases, as you have said, through several pages, by stylistic and linguistic corrections. In fact, we believe that we have found the betli in this case, that we believe that the small taffyunging of public television and the further cementation of public trust funds and further inability to switch to a normal operation in any way later, that is its real purpose. If there's anything we haven't noticed, let me know. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-114	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-12-01-115	Undoubtedly, we always have some suspicions about the legislative proposals submitted by the government concerning many laws. The fact is that this is certainly outstanding, because it is relatively rare that a bill lies shamelessly with its title. The law here promises that there will be laws related to higher education and higher education, of course, everything is related to everything, but a significant part of the laws concerned in the world has nothing to do with higher education. What is actually the least of the problems is the parts affecting higher education. There are also positive elements, such as rules supporting internationalisation, enabling the inclusion of scientific degrees, rules and rules referring to the interoperability of training and university competence, or even rules relating to the OTDK. Obviously, we all like OTDK here in this House, and although it has not been possible to explain in the reasoning why legal personality is better than non-legal personality, but if that is what the stakeholders want, let us hope that the Ministry has asked them and has prepared this proposal on the basis of their proposals. But, again, the OTDK is a very long, very good quality element of Hungarian higher education, if the operation of this can be better guaranteed or guaranteed in this framework, we would be happy to support it. That's about as long as we agree. You know, Mr State Secretary, and you know this House, that with the part of the transformation of higher education that allows the institutions to privatise in private foundations, we do not agree; and, like Congressman Gyula Molnár, I would like to confirm, we have noticed that the government is taking the first step here in the direction that the public wealth entered into it is definitively excluded from the control of the public and the electorate in order to lose even more public money in order to apply the term you like. At the same time, I have to say that whatever they're doing here or in the Fundamental Law, the next democratic government, if it's up to us, will get these assets back to the community. This is not your private wealth, it is not the private wealth of the curators appointed by you, it is the public property that you can give to someone, but we will find the legal means for the Hungarian taxpayers to regain this wealth, and this property is for the convenience of the Hungarian people, the voters, the country, and after it is about higher education, then for the benefit of students, teachers, higher education, and not for the convenience of the curators of political cadres collected from here and there. Our other favorite, which has absolutely nothing to do with higher education, is an amendment to the media law. It is no coincidence that Mr Bódis, State Secretary, does not represent the government now, as is usually the case with higher education agendas, obviously he does not accept everything. In amending the Media Act... [[János Schanda's intervention.]] Secretary Schanda will do whatever she wants, that's what we already know. [[Defiance.]] So, the fact of the amendment of the media law is that this amendment to the media law introduces further detailed rules that make broadcasters vulnerable to the Media Council, which is composed exclusively of Fidesz members. We know what you're going to do with the Media Council, to regulate the lack of line radios most often, and on television there's less debate in this. We could now give an example of a radio against which the Media Council is trying to remove the frequency on the ground. Specifically in the case of Klubradio. But the same thing happens with commercial radios, only there are not political considerations, but the various economic aspects, the struggle between the business circles behind you, to take the frequency away from one radio, to give it to the other. By extending quota compliance to additional time bands at linear media service providers, or by creating the extremely ingenious filth that it is possible to apply for a high level of broadcasting fee, and then to ask for a reduction in the broadcasting fee afterwards, this is clearly intended to provide media frequencies once again to businesses close to you and political actors sympathetic to you, so that the Fidesz Media Council can decide at will and be more difficult to sue. This applies, of course, to the rules on monthly fees. [[14.20]] What is a strange charm of this bill is that, while not shoveling wheelbarrows, they are pushing public money into the public media, which serves as the media of government propaganda. They've been to Parliament, and I've forgotten how many billion forints for extra support. Now they're opening up the advertising market even more in this area. I could say that I'm sorry for the viewers, but of course there are not very many viewers, except for the sports channel, but the sports channel will now be able to sell even more advertising time, there will be even more sports TVs... Because there's obviously not a lot of ads on M1 that want to be returned for public procurement, they go there to advertise because there's no viewer. Well, there's a spectator on the sports channel. What were you doing on sports television? A state sports TV has been created, which competes on one side with a great deal of public money for broadcasting rights, and now they even allow it to accept a lot of advertising in the meantime. It doesn't matter whether the viewers like it or not, because you don't care about the viewers. The only thing you're interested in is making a lot of money on a sports TV where you can sell lying, hate-inspiring one-minute news, and where you can meet these people, who would otherwise avoid this type of government propaganda. Compared to this, the MMA, where the number of MMAs is increased, can still be allocated a number of well-paying places in this government's friends cultural institution, and it is quite beautiful that, at the request of the MMA, the National Assembly, on your proposal, with your support, has required that it can only be a member of the Academy, but now that there is obviously someone else in the personal election, it is now postponed its entry into force. All I can say is he's petty. All in all, I can therefore say about this bill, that although it is a small part of the bill, which is the subject of its title, the provisions relating to higher education, it would actually be eligible; then it will be told or not because we know, because it would have been logical if it had been included in the other amendment to the Higher Education Act, which deals with professional issues, and is here, by the way, before the House. Now, besides everything else you've put in it, it's outrageous, unacceptable, it's about ripping off public money and building your clientship. So, not surprisingly, we cannot support the bill.
u2020-12-01-116	Thank you, honourable Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of Group, lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-12-01-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It is indeed surprising that Mr Bódis, State Secretary, is not here, although I must tell you frankly that I am pleased to see him, because I know Mr Bódis as a rector of Pécs, and frankly, I do not appreciate discussing with him the change in higher education that we cannot say much good about. And indeed, as my fellow Member, who spoke before me, here only contains in detail the provisions on higher education, although we are a little bit more stringent on these, as Mr Arató put it as DK's position. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, at times we can be a little bit more stringent than DK, even on the issue of education policy, but I will discuss this. However, it is quite clear what is the essential element of the legislative amendments introduced in this bill, which have already been mentioned by my fellow Member. Indeed, and we talked about this yesterday, indeed, in this way, the electoral preparation was started by the government side, and in this increasingly unfavourable and bad political situation they are trying to streamline the system in this way, and they think that they may have more chances to remain in power before 2022, or even so, by strengthening propaganda. I think that, given all the developments, this is going to be more difficult, but I would not comment on that right now. We are now in a very difficult situation, a deep economic crisis, and the country is experiencing a social and economic crisis and crisis because of the coronal virus epidemic. I think that these measures are tragic not primarily because of the elections, but because the huge sums you spend on government propaganda should be used to support the Hungarian people, to help Hungarian families in a difficult situation. It has already been said in the debate today that concrete proposals are already being swept off the table without any money in the budget; and we can also see that next year's budget, we can say that it exists on a virtual basis, will have to be fundamentally transformed into its structure, but it can be seen that propaganda is being incorporated into it and these legislative proposals are being introduced. By the way, we're wondering when the government will bring in the amending budget. Here were important measures, in which we agreed in part, for example, the increase in the wages of doctors was very important; it was supported by the entire opposition, and other other measures for family policy have also been taken without an amendment to the budget for next year. We can also see, knowing the deadlines and how long the autumn session lasts, they do not know this in normal procedures. I think that also says a lot about your governance. However, I would basically limit myself to what is the title of the bill, because it is a terrible process in itself, which you call a change of degrees in higher education, even if it is not the rudest, worst stage that we have in front of us right now. This has also been referred to by my colleague before me. What we see in your higher education transition is that there are tragic consequences. This is basically the decline in higher education candidates, the number of students, university autonomy, the continuous reduction of university autonomy, and the also shocking process of emigration and career change of teachers in which it appears. We see that it is shocking and absolutely saddening what wages should be worked for university teachers with a scientific degree, and this is a ten-year deficit for the government. Obviously, in a difficult economic situation during a crisis, it is difficult to find budgetary resources, especially, the password: gigantic investments. But on the other hand, Mr Secretary of State cannot deny that this is a ten-year failure of the government to work for extremely low and humiliating wages for those working in the higher education and research sector. This issue should be fundamentally addressed, and should be dealt with in principle by involving stakeholders in decision-making. It is not worth saying in Parliament that, when preparing such proposals, you ignore the stakeholders, ignore the advocacy organisations and do not involve them in the decision-making process. The most serious element of this process, and also in this bill, is that, in practice, the way in which public and private and religious higher education institutions are financed from the central budget is separated at legislative level. And indeed, my fellow Members have already spoken about the foundations. Here you are actually developing a parallel system of power, which is extremely dangerous, otherwise, given everything. It is virtually apparent that, where this has already been done, these foundations have indeed been filled with people close to you who belong to your clientship, and they really have a meaningful say in the processes where it should not be and where university autonomy should prevail. This is totally unacceptable. The amendments could be classified for a very long time, since the proposal is very wide-ranging, but I really would not want to waste any more time, and I would just like to ask one more question. According to one of the many elements, the government is authorised to regulate the rules of doctoral training, the procedure, the conditions for the establishment of a doctoral school, the membership, organization of the doctoral school, the powers granted to the doctoral board, doctoral thesis, doctoral thesis, the general rules governing the procedure for obtaining doctoral degrees, the conditions for obtaining a doctoral degree. I consider this to be of great concern, and I would like to draw your attention to this in particular, and I would also like to ask why it is necessary here, in connection with the operation of doctoral schools, the procedure for gearing up and, in general, other professional issues, to have such amazing opportunities and powers as to regulate this by regulation. I'm certainly concerned about that. And if you look at how strongly the organization of scientific life, the organization of university life, is related to how and how you can get a doctoral degree, then you can see that from this direction the government will have a greater influence, directly affecting this sphere. We certainly consider this to be unjustified. I think that this bill should be debated and argued in particular for a longer time. I can tell you that the LMP faction will definitely reject this. Thank you very much. [[14.30]]
u2020-12-01-118	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congresswoman to come forward is not in the room. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. Just a moment, please. [[Erika Kissné Köles enters the Chamber.]] If you have breathed out, I will give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who will start his speech in the language of nationality, and you will translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-119	Hvala za besedo, gospod Predsednik! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, Zbor Cenjeni! Mr President, Dear House, The Fundamental Law of Hungary is Article XI. (Articles 1) to (2), in the list of fundamental rights, it grants all Hungarian citizens the right to culture and to acquire knowledge. Hungary also provides this right by extending and generalising public education, with financial support as defined by law. This right also granted to ethnic communities living in Hungary the right to culture in the language of nationality. The regulation of the good and effective functioning of vocational training, adult education and higher education is crucial for nationalities as a whole in today's Hungarian public education. On these grounds, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities called for the T/13956 before us. The possibility to link to the draft law on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws, and to discuss it as a national agenda. Certain paragraphs of this Act specifically concern all nationalities, others the groups of nationalities with higher education. I need to take a breather. I came out of my seat in a rush. The bill is 1. §2 of Act XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants It proposes to amend law and naturally also applies to teachers in public education institutions, vocational training institutions and higher education who provide their ethnic areas. It is to be welcomed that the provision of the legislation that school education is to be interpreted in all laws affecting the field with the same meaning. It is also important for nationalities to clearly define the qualifications, part qualifications and other qualifications that can be taken into account when determining the salary progression of national experts working in nationality public education institutions and vocational training institutions. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is pleased to note the support measures of the government and the specialty, which aim to ensure that national minority communities are adequately equipped and well-trained in the field of public education as a whole and, above all, in the field of higher education. Similarly, it is reassuring to ensure the organizational and budgetary needs that have been extended to the whole of public education, and it has proved to be the increasingly effective functioning of the institutions maintained by the national authorities, and an improved trend in their effectiveness. At the same time, we are puzzled by the range of measures that have been launched in particular within the framework of higher education, which provides educational support. These are to make changes in the area of uniform teacher training, in addition to coordinating with NAT. The concept of shortening education with two semesters of specialty credits in higher education would be extremely detrimental to the teaching of ethnicity. It is very important for ethnic public education and vocational training, for ethnic communities, that highly qualified teachers, with good skills, manage education and training, thus enabling students and students to learn ethnic languages of a high quality. The narrowing of language training to two semesters in ethnic teaching is of great concern to many of us. At the time when the Higher Education Act came before Parliament, it was important to draw attention to this anomaly. In all training practices, the aim is to ensure that the output requirement also ensures the effective and effective application of acquired knowledge in practical life. This is why we would consider it important that, when the education of national minority teachers is given special attention in the field of ethnicity policy, before the various education courses and the planned transformations in the institutions that supply them, the ethnic communities, such as the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and/or the experts of the Association of National Governments dealing with public education issues, the expert group of national educational institutions should be able to discuss the planned changes in advance. Because although we have the opportunity to express our opinion before Parliament, where appropriate, to amend certain legislative proposals, sometimes in the practice of implementation we encounter only certain negative decisions. Training and output requirements for vocational education and training, basic and master courses shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Education, with the exception of teachers. An important new rule is that the Diploma Supplement certifying the degree must be issued in addition to the language of the ethnicity concerned, in the case of ethnic education, at the request of the student. For us, this new rule is particularly important, according to which the requirement to issue documents in the language of nationality is properly applied in this case. In the field of internationalisation of education, Section 47 of the bill states: . In the permanent teaching and research faculty, teachers and researchers who are employed by a foreign employer in the territory of Hungary under an agreement with a third party are also eligible for the basic activity of the higher education institution, which is not covered by the Code of Labour. In this case, teachers of universities and colleges may have statutory employment among professionals, teachers, lecturers from the mother country, which may in particular resolve the lack of teaching capacity of small nationalities. The bill is 11. The amendment contained in Section 2 of this Article allows automatic recognition of foreign scientific degrees obtained in accredited higher education institutions. The bill is 59. According to paragraph 1 of the article: The central budget of the higher education institution 2. It shall contribute to the functioning of the higher education institution by providing support to ensure its core activity within the meaning of Article 1 (1). This paragraph may be of particular importance in the case of small minority educators, since we can usually talk about training with one or two ethnic students. In the case of training institutions, it would be fortunate to have this laid down in an exact way, so that there is no bad practice that, in the case of the application of three candidates for national education, the training institution only informs applicants of the resignation of the training. [[14.40]] Point 5 of the bill, Article CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Although the amendment of law does not mention nationality in any of its paragraphs, Article 59/A. Paragraph 3 of Article 3 states that webarchitects must archive the web content that is considered a hungaricum. The values of Hungarian ethnicities, which naturally serve and deserve the wealth of Hungarian cultural life as a whole, should also be included in the web content to be archived. As there is a nationality-related value among the categories of national values, we would like to see a similar category among archived web content. Point 9 of the bill is the 2007 CVI on state assets. By amending law, it makes it clear that, now that the nationality law allows it to take over the public education institutions maintained by the national authorities in ownership, it is important to have a clear legal background in all respects. At this point and place of law, we see a guarantee of this. The bill is 18. §2 defines the obligation to pay the media service fee. The provision applies, of course, to our national media providers. As regards payment of the media service fee, the possibility of authorising the payment of instalments can provide support to many media service providers. Even today, the media appearance of nationalities is still considered to be very low. Our presence in the public media is extremely rare, practically limited to the programmes of national media service providers. In order to make our lives and work more known, we would expect more media coverage. Point 12 of the bill, CIX of 2011 on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The amendment to the Act refers to the members of the National Artists Act in determining the number of ordinary members of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. We would be honoured to know some of the members of the ethnic communities of Hungary, recognised as a factor of state, among those awarded the title of National Artist, as Hungarian ethnicities are also integral parts of Hungarian art life. It is also to be welcomed that, in the context of the amendments to the National Property Act, the bill also designates national self-governments as transparent bodies free of charge in the case of the grant of state assets, and transfers the ownership of state property free of charge in order to carry out public tasks and to facilitate the performance of public tasks. Our Commission did not want to give an opinion on the other points of the bill before us, and it proposes that Parliament adopt it as a whole. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-12-01-120	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz.
u2020-12-01-121	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to deal with the type of conspiracy theories that have been said here, both in terms of asset relief and in terms of media, but some professional questions are worth talking about. One is that, in relation to the NMA, Mr Arató raised all kinds of staff issues here. I would just like to note that in the case of NMA, the number will be as high as in MTA. Another important thing is that MEP László Keresztes raised questions about PhD and Erika Kissné Köles raised the training of ethnic teachers. I would like to point out that, in both cases, it has been regulated and will continue to be governed by a government regulation, so there is no substantial change in this regard, and I think it is important to note this. I would also like to say to László Keresztes on the grounds of university autonomy that there has been no intervention on university autonomy in Hungary in either case, since university autonomy means the freedom of training, education and research, maintenance change is not an issue in this field. University autonomy intervention occurred when, under the leadership of Bálint Magyar, the Bologna-type training was introduced from one moment to the next, it affected the structure of the training, its content and very, very much. Well, they've really intervened in university autonomy, and that's not what this is about. As regards the question of student applications, the figures alone are misleading because there was a unified opinion in this House years ago that quality should be increased in higher education and quality should be achieved by raising entry point thresholds. Undoubtedly, those who had fewer scores and had applied to a higher education institution have indeed given up on this in recent years, but they have gone to vocational training and there has been a welcome increase in numbers. So, by the way, it's worth looking at together. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-122	Thank you very much, Congressman László Pósán. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Tamás Schanda in a 30-minute time frame, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-12-01-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will try to be brief in the answers, even because a significant part of the Members I have to answer are no longer in the Chamber. But for the record, I'd like to make a few points. On the one hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is far from what Congressman Molnár has indicated that there is a disguise here that is merely an amendment to the Higher Education Act. After all, if you look at the package of legislative amendments, you can see clearly that we are amending a number of laws related to higher education from educational records that are really necessary to achieve the measures that we would like to go through with higher education. In addition, it can be said that this package of amendments to higher education really addresses issues in which I think that there should be a big debate, at least in relation to the objectives, that should not happen between us. That is why, although it was a surprising turn of events, let me put it on the speaker's table that Mr Arató praised the part of the bill before us. I thank you, even if, by the way, I would like to ask the Member that when the Democratic Coalition talks about higher education, they should not in any way spread false news, as they did the last time about students in medical education and medical training, because this is not good for Hungarian higher education, and it is not good for the system that our universities and colleges make up. On the other hand, let me also draw attention to the fact that the regulatory direction and precisely the regulatory objective of regulating trust funds is to strengthen the autonomy, freedom of these universities to make these institutions as dependent on policy and external influence as little as possible, regardless of these external impacts, whether it is research, development, international cooperation or education. It is also important that all these changes, which appear in this bill and which accompany the whole change of model, will also significantly increase the international competitiveness of these institutions, since it is, however, that these higher education institutions can operate more freely, reducing the burdens imposed by law, and thus be able to respond more quickly not only to market but also to international needs. [[14.50]] Nor is it a coincidence, Honourable Parliament, that seven of the TOP 10 universities operate in this model in the world. This is worth reminding ourselves again and again, because if our ambition to have the best possible higher education in Hungary is to further strengthen Hungarian higher education, then it is worth seeing what steps we need to take and how we can reach the international topliga. I would like to draw attention to, or agree with, Mr Crossman, that raising wages is always an important issue. Thank God, we have managed to raise wages in Hungarian higher education in recent years, but our intentions have not changed, and we agree that these must be increased. This will also be possible in some of the institutions, with a wage agreement that is more free than model-shifting institutions. The collateral is also available, and otherwise we are creating a structure in which this can be achieved more easily, and this rigid pay table will be cut off. This makes it possible to pay better and more qualitatively, which is why I think it is worth supporting these amendments, but in the end we absolutely agree with Mr Keresztes Group leader. On the contrary, the funding of universities is true; as the Member, Mr Group Leader, has indicated, he is becoming more unpredictable, well, the opposite is true. Long-term contracts, the predictable frameworks that otherwise appear for model-shifting institutions, will promote stability and predictability. So I think there's a baseless faction leader's fear of colleges. On the other hand, in the case of ecclesiastical higher education institutions, this amendment of the law allows for more favourable rules for the institutions in the case of acceptance, since the resources due under the international contract, which are due to higher education institutions, will not be subject to specific accounting, but to information and reporting, which will also ensure further increase in the autonomy of higher education in the church. Allow me also to respond to the points which, in part, Mr Pósán has already responded to. On the one hand, there were pictitious comments about the MMA population. I think that enlargement is fair, because it will allow academic membership of artists who have otherwise received a high award. I think it's appropriate and fair, and I think it's tasteless to take it away from these excellent artists, that they deserve academic membership, and what Congressman Pósán has already underlined is that otherwise, the MMA will become as large as the MTA. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government's regulatory proposal for the Academy of Arts is not published here, but the Academy of Arts has proposed to the government, and we have accepted these proposals. I think it is possible to criticise this proposal, of course, everyone has the right and opportunity to do so, but we call attention to the fact that they are criticising not the position of the government, but the position of the Academy of Arts, where this has been discussed, discussed, analysed, and, by the way, based on the experience of their internal logic and internal operation, they are asking the government and the government to support these amendments. I think that every faction should consider that it considers Hungarian artists, members of the Academy of Arts, to be so serious that, by listening to their request, it accepts these changes. I can only suggest that it is worth considering and considering carefully, because it is serious people and a serious organization. If they ask for such an amendment, I think we should support it. There were also concerns about broadcasting. Allow me to try to answer these questions with a few sentences. On the one hand, the monthly media service fee is, in fact, flexibility instead of a quarterly; I think that introducing flexibility is in any event beneficial to the actors. On the other hand, the programme quota obligation serves EU requirements; and let me also draw attention to the fact that the amending proposal sets out simpler rules for the application, since it has been unjustified to date to limit the simplified procedure for local entitlements. It was also a review of the media service fee. Allow me to make the clarification that this can happen on request and not only on its own initiative. This is also an important element of the amendment. I hope I've been able to respond to all the questions. I hope that I have been able to resolve the doubts that have emerged from each of the speeches. In this hope, allow me to ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-124	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws on energy and waste management will follow until closure. Government referral T/13958. The information submitted by the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Anita Boros, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2020-12-01-125	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much. The government is T/13958. The Parliament submitted a bill amending certain laws relating to energy and waste management. According to the National Creed of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, we undertake to cultivate and protect our heritage, the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin; we take responsibility for our offspring, and therefore, by using our material, spiritual and natural resources, we protect the living conditions of the generations that follow us. In order to protect the future generation, the government has taken a clear position this year in its climate and nature conservation action plan on a number of environmental and nature conservation issues, and has also revealed the need to take economic decisions for ecological development. The bill you are about to see is one of the most important green economy proposals in the last thirty years in relation to environmental protection. A package of proposals in which a very significant paradigm shift will take place, as we are clearly voting alongside the emerging green economy development engine, i.e. the transition to the circular economy. Dear Parliament, The general objective of the draft is to ensure a kind of future generation in line with the objectives set out in the Fundamental Law. With this insurance, we make sure that the values, assets that are now available to us remain available to our children, but this will not be possible on its own. Between 1970 and 2017, the annual global production of raw materials increased more than tripled, from 27 billion tonnes to 92 billion tonnes. [[15.00]] Since 2000, production sizes have accelerated and on average increased by 3.2 percent per year. Now we produce these raw materials, we use the products from them, and then, when they are no longer necessary, we throw them away. At the same time, we'll throw away the valuable material with them. We currently use around 16 tonnes of material per person per year in the EU, of which 10 tonnes are added to the stock of materials, i.e. infrastructure, housing or durable goods, and 6 tonnes leave the economy as waste. Worldwide, the average daily waste is 0.74 kg. For the future, global waste is expected to grow to 3.4 billion tonnes by 2050. If current trends persist, the reduction and exhaustion of natural resources will continue, as will waste production. The EU Circular Economy Package sets out the rules to be followed in four Waste Management Directives: on the one hand, the Waste Framework Directive; on the other hand, the Landfill Directive; on the third, the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive; and, on the other hand, the Directive on end-of-life vehicles, batteries and accumulators and waste batteries. These four Directives also set new waste management tasks and targets for Member States, a common EU recycling target of 65 per cent for municipal waste by 2035 and 55 per cent for 2025 and 60 per cent for 30. On the other hand, a common EU recycling target of 70% was set for packaging waste by 2030 and another target for reducing landfill use is set, with a maximum of 10 per cent of municipal waste being discharged by 2035. The ban on landfilling separate collected waste is a rule for which a number of other provisions are contained in the Directive package: bio-waste by 2023 and separate collection of household textile and hazardous waste by 2025 are also required. The transition to a circular economy has many national advantages. The main objective of the circular approach is to separate economic growth from resource use, thereby improving resource productivity. Our aim is to move as quickly as possible to the circular economy, reducing landfill, increasing recycling and re-use, and to implement the closed-chain product cycle, to take measures to support the principle of a circular economy at each stage of the value chain, from production to consumption, from repair to production, including waste management and re-invested secondary raw materials and to reduce excessive or wasteful consumption. The total amount of waste generated in Hungary was almost 25.5 million tonnes in 2004, 15,3 tonnes in 2010 and 15,5 million tonnes in 2015 and 19 million tonnes in 2019. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This means that the amount of waste has decreased substantially over the past 15 years. This is reflected in the amount of waste per capita, since in 2004 there were 2518 kilograms of waste per capita, and in 2019 it was only 1950 kilograms per capita. If we consider not the total but only municipal waste, i.e. municipal waste, this value is even more favourable, since in 2004 454 kilograms of municipal waste per capita, in 2010 it is only 403 kilograms and in 2019 it is only 388 kilograms. In view of the composition of waste in Hungary, it has been observed in the last 15 years that in 2004 nearly 10 million tonnes of industrial and other waste, this type of waste preserved its leading role in terms of quantity for nearly ten years, and then fell back to second place, and in 2018 it was 5,9 million tonnes, and in 19 it produced 5.6 million tonnes. At the same time, the investment in infrastructure in recent years has led to an increase in the volume of construction and demolition waste, with the highest value of the last 15 years, 8,1 million tonnes, adjusted to the outstanding results of the construction industry in 2019. The amount of municipal waste also decreased significantly as it was only 4.5 million tonnes in 2004, slightly over 4 million tonnes in 2010, but only 3.7 million tonnes since 2015 and similar trends can be observed in terms of the proportion of agricultural and hazardous waste with a much smaller share. A very important and interesting economic aspect, which is worth considering for a sector, is the amount of waste generated in proportion to the total annual GDP, i.e. the amount of waste generated in the production of a thousand euros of GDP. This indicator was the second best in the V4 in 2018, and we have to add that in the last 15 years we Hungarians have improved 55 percent, the Czechs have only 35 percent, the Slovaks 25 percent, the Polish have been able to improve 20 percent compared to their 2004 performance, although in 2004 we were the most polluting Hungarians. One of the most important features of the circular economy is the return of secondary raw materials to the economy, so that they re-exploit their productive capacity. The basis for this cycle is, in fact, the production of waste secondary raw material, which is capable of being traced back to the economy. There is no doubt that significant progress has been made in the recycling of waste, but we are still far from a real economic breakthrough. Although the proportion of waste recovered in the material continues to increase in its trend from 2007 onwards, it has increased from 35.3 per cent in 2004 to 65.3 per cent in 19 and in its trend, the proportion of waste disposed of only by landfills in the entire observed time frame is constantly decreasing among all waste treatment modes. In 2004, almost 60% of waste was deposited in landfills, with only 48.7 per cent in 2010, 40 per cent in 15 and 27,8 per cent in 19 in 2010. If you look only at municipal waste, you can see that still 84 percent of the waste was deposited in 2004; 51 percent in 10 and 15; 48 percent in 18; a little more than 48 percent in 19; and 50 percent in 19. The recycling rate for municipal waste improved from 11 per cent in 2004 to 35.8 per cent in 2019, which is the best result among the V4 countries, but we are still significantly below the EU average of 47.4. The trend in Hungary is, in fact, that we have increased the recycling rate, but there is still a lot of waste in the landfill, and this is the only thing that is actually followed by energy-type recovery as a third. At the same time, it is worth noting that we are exporting a significant amount of recyclable raw materials. The proportion has increased more than three times over the past 15 years. This also means that these raw materials do not start their cycle in the Hungarian economy. In the whole circular economy, the concept of waste is minimized as far as possible by careful reflection of products and industrial processes, planning to keep resources constantly in use and the recycling or recovery of inevitable waste or residues. The Ellen MacArthur model describes the economy in a system diagram, which consists of two material cycles, a biological cycle in which residues return to nature after use, and has another leg, a technical cycle in which products, parts or materials are designed and marketed to minimise waste. Such a circular system aims at maximising the use of clean, clean and non-toxic substances and products that are easily maintained, re-usable, repairable or refurbishable, thus prolonging the lifetime of products and can subsequently be easily dismantled and recycled into new products, minimizing the possibility of waste. Waste management plays a central role in the circular economy, defining the practical implementation of the EU waste hierarchy. The waste hierarchy sets a priority order from prevention, preparation for reuse, from recycling to energy use, disposal and, of course, landfill. At the same time, in order to increase the level of high-quality recycling, we see the need for intervention in the collection and sorting of waste. Following such precedents, the Hungarian government decided that the waste management sector should be put on a new footing and that a continuous transition to the circular economic model, i.e. a linear, high resource demand, emission of pollutants, waste generation, and a system that is detrimental to the ecosystem and natural capital, will be moved to a circular, less wasteful and efficient resource-use and sustainable system that will provide job opportunities and a high standard of living. [[15.10]] Dear Parliament, In order to achieve these objectives at national level, Hungarian waste management needs to be put on a new footing. For this new model, it is necessary to examine the regulatory areas in which the product's way of life takes place. The reform of these is essential for achieving the full model. First of all, in terms of the circular economy, there are corner points that we have set ourselves a goal. We would like to minimise the amount of waste deposited and optimise recycling and reuse in the counter-pole. To do this, we need to ensure that waste, whether it is produced in households or in businesses, is collected in a regulated, transparent system. In addition, we would like to achieve a clean-up of the waste. We can achieve this by simplifying the possibility of selective waste collection, for which we have developed a model based on each other. First of all, we would like to create the possibility that there are places where you can turn in your useless things, your belongings, clothes, books, even on your way to work. The next phase of this is that we want to create municipal collection points in all settlements, where all types of waste can be delivered. Proposals for the establishment of these collection points will be published next year. [[Continue in 173/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 1 December 2020 173/2. Number Parliamentary Diary The next step is to expand existing waste yards and support the development of new waste yards. The introduction of a so-called redemption system will also serve this purpose. We want to increase the recycling of packaging waste at a more rapid pace. We would like to support this at the first stage by introducing a redemption model for PET, aluminium and glass products. However, it is worth pointing out that in addition to the waste contained in the statistical data I mentioned, there is another waste which is so-called illegally laid down, polluting the quality of life of Hungary, which follows the other rules. Let's clear the country. The first stage of the project, one of the unfortunate experiences of which is that several cleaned sites will again be targeted at illegal landfills in a few days. Therefore, our package of proposals deals specifically with the strict sanctioning of illegal landfills and the regulation of waste management tasks specialised in monitoring them. The latter is also important because it is established within the organisational framework of government agencies and, not least, will cover the entire territory of the country. The various guards and inspectors are also authorised to carry out on-the-spot checks and fines, thus introducing a completely new model of official cooperation in the field of waste management. The sanctioning system was set up in accordance with the principle of proportionality in such a way as to have a deterrent effect in the event of an act. The system of criminal, infringement and administrative rules in relation to illegal waste management is currently difficult to understand, is not coherent and in many cases also suitable for circumventing the rules. Illegal waste-related activities are very diverse, ranging from non-compliance with notification to public littering. This is why our proposal supports the introduction of a rigorous system of sanctions based on each other, in order to strengthen criminal sanctions, to a lesser extent, to amend the system of offences and to propose the introduction of strict administrative sanctions. As mentioned above, one of the important elements of the reform is the preservation and strengthening of the State's control functions. Accordingly, in addition to its previous tasks of an official nature, the waste management authority would be given new types of tasks, on the one hand, to control the product value chain in order to switch to the circular one. The importance of this is that we must move from a linear economy to a circular economy. Over the next few years, the economic policy of recycling and recovery needs to be changed. Given that this is likely to take more time, it is absolutely necessary to check compliance with all waste management Etaps and lay down quality assurance rules. To this end, it is essential that the licensing, monitoring and other control functions related to waste management, based on strict rules, are confirmed by law. In our new model, waste as a raw material is the starting point. This should be collected, selected, pre-treated and recycled in such a way as to reach the thresholds for change in economic productivity. This should be covered by appropriate legislation and not least monitored by the State. We therefore wanted to provide the State with strong regulatory, control, market surveillance and quality assurance functions. At the same time, this is not possible in a fragmented system of responsibility, which is divided among many. Therefore, the government has decided to designate the activities that it would prefer to carry out itself. At the same time, it is also necessary to see that huge investments in infrastructure are needed to achieve lasting results. We need to introduce new technologies, increase the number of different selections, build up the system of the mentioned collection points and the necessary asset park for the introduction of redemption. The government had to make a very important decision in the huge investment need construction. In the current epidemic situation, the government focuses on the tasks needed to protect people's lives, and then obviously we try to turn the engines of the economy back to higher speed. We are moving towards another model to effectively finance an investment to reform and infrastructural renewal of a whole sector. That is why we would like to achieve this great public task with the involvement of those who are still active in the waste management market. This means that part of the waste management tasks would be entrusted by the State to a concession company which undertakes to meet the targets set by the Union for years, does not increase service prices and makes the necessary investments for those targets. In the case of primary raw materials, the concession model has always been known; now secondary raw materials are also moving in this direction. At the same time, the transition to a circular economy can only take place in parallel with the strong support of domestic industrial policy, requiring a rethink of resource constraints and resource use. This requires technological developments, the introduction of technologies that allow the monitoring of products or materials, longer life span and the maintenance of the highest possible value. Meanwhile, the ability to design and manufacture, material science, must also be further developed. In order for our recycling and recycling industry to develop, we would also like to develop a system of industrial policy support for waste management, with the aim of making it easy for domestic waste management companies currently operating on the market to participate in the new model. The operation of the concession's privileges will be monitored and supervised by the Waste Management Authority with enhanced powers and the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office with autonomous status. Dear Parliament, The proposal contains elements other than waste management. 18th of 2005 on district heating Act LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity Act and Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas The amendment of the Act aims at establishing consistency between the provisions on procedural time limits for corporate events and for the acquisition of influence under the Company Law and sectoral legislation. It also aims to simplify the rules on the review procedure of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 22 July 1992 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies (OJ L 343, 22.12.2009, p. 1). The amendment of the Act requires only amendments of a legal harmonisation and technical nature. Further amendments to the energy legislation were justified by procedural corrections made on the basis of official experience to assist the Agency in performing its tasks effectively and rapidly. The amendment to the Mining Act also contains significant procedural facilitations. Reducing emissions from the transport sector is a global interest, which is also a priority for EU and national energy policy. Our commitment to transport decarbonisation is an integral part of our long-term climate protection efforts. The bill before you ensures that the progress achieved today cannot be withdrawn, that the greenhouse gas reduction results achieved in 2020 in the field of the distribution of transport fuels are maintained, giving a sound basis for achieving the goals set for the future. Another important provision of the bill is that it would set a binding target to be achieved by 2030 to ensure that the energy use of the transport sector is 14 percent from renewable energy sources. This percentage is only 10 percent in 2020. It is therefore important and timely to adopt this bill. [[15.20]] The 14 per cent target can be achieved by using biofuels or biogases or even by generating electric transport. A significant and sustainable innovation is the underlying EU legislation that, for the target to be achieved by 2030, at least 3.5 per cent of the 14 per cent to be achieved should be advanced biofuels or biogas for which waste or some secondary product is used, as opposed to conventional biofuels, which are based mainly on food for human or animal consumption. It should be stressed that compliance with European Union law also serves domestic industrial policy and agricultural interests, the production of advanced biofuels, the exploitation of electromobility or the use of biogas in the field of domestic industrial development potential, both in the field of fuel production, service infrastructure and vehicle development. Reducing emissions from the transport sector is a priority, linked to long-term climate protection efforts. To support this, the bill ensures that the greenhouse gas reduction results achieved in 2020 in the field of the marketing of transport fuels are maintained. Dear Parliament, Overall, the bill before Parliament serves the country's environmental interests and contributes to the fulfilment of the EU's obligations. After presenting the objectives, waste generation and processing conditions I have just presented, I would like to ask you, on the basis of the reasons given, to discuss and then adopt the legislative amendment. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-126	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-12-01-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13958 on the amendment of certain laws on energy and waste management before us We also heard a very detailed, comprehensive picture and a summary of the most important amendments contained in the legislative proposal, courtesy of the former Secretary of State. Therefore, in my speech as the lead speaker, I would just like to highlight some of the parts of the bill that I believe are important elements of the proposals for amendments to both waste management and energy. Ladies and gentlemen, The main purpose of the amendment of waste management laws is to clean up the country. I think we all agree that it is necessary to clean the country of waste deposited decades ago, and that the entire waste management sector should be subject to a much more effective and stronger regulatory control by ensuring an adequate system of penalties for waste infringements. It is important to prevent the recycling of illegal waste and to provide the basis for appropriate waste management, and to support the quality assurance of the sector in order to ensure that the waste management target system is implemented more fully, and to do so, an appropriate organisational forum system should be set up. It is therefore important to note that, from a waste management point of view, the proposal has a domestic background to the so-called climate and nature conservation action plan, and the proposal before us also intends to comply with implementation obligations. By adopting the objectives set out in the climate and nature conservation action plan, the Government has expressed its determination to take measures that effectively contribute to reducing waste generation and preventing illegal landfill. I believe that these are objectives to be supported in any way. I think it is important to highlight that, in accordance with the action plan, the country should be cleansed! As part of a project, the elimination of illegal waste that has been deposited has also started in July 2020. However, it should also be noted that the project can only be effective and successful if illegal waste is not re-established and that further tightening of the related sanction and control system is necessary. However, the reform of our waste management system also requires that, in addition to the entire waste management process, all aspects of the transition to the so-called circular economy are properly monitored, monitored, quality assurance carried out and, if necessary, sanctioned by an authorised administrative body with strong, strong powers. This new body is the waste management authority. In addition, in order to ensure efficient and economic operation and to meet the EU waste management objectives, the proposal intends to establish a new concession model in the waste management sector. In the analysis of the sector, it can be concluded that I am referring to the cost of the waste management public service system for services, depreciation costs, such as the various maintenance costs, such as, for example, environmental and energy operational programmes, projects, or the public service charge for the provision of primary revenues from real estate users, which in most cases does not cover this system cost. Moreover, the balance can be slightly improved by the revenue from the so-called sales of waste materials, but it is still clear that the operation of the public service system requires budgetary support. In addition, it is important to stress that, in order to comply with the relevant EU Directive, the draft also proposes the introduction of a system of redemption for beverage packaging consisting of vending machines and hand-held relays, in which the purchaser receives the fee for plastic, aluminium and glass packaging products. It is proposed that, in future, the State will establish and operate a compulsory redemption fee scheme for certain products in order to ensure that the recycling of products and the treatment of waste produced from products and their packaging is carried out in a national, uniform and integrated comprehensive system. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to waste management, the bill before us includes amendments to the laws on district heating, electricity and gas supply. Further amendments to the energy legislation have been made based on the experience of the authorities, and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office (Magyar Energikai és Közműközszervezszerzési Bizottság) is also justified by changes in the efficiency and rapid delivery of its tasks in connection with the use of renewable energy, as well as by legal harmonisation obligations. The amendment of the Mining Act, which provides for a significant procedural relief in the case of a common ownership property when establishing a working right, a right to wire and a right of use, instead of a unanimous decision so far, provides for a majority decision of the persons concerned on the basis of the ownership ratio, and also specifies the cases in which the consent of the partner of the owner is deemed to be granted as a result of the impossibility of a request for consent. Reducing emissions from the transport sector is also a priority for all of us and is also linked to our long-term climate protection efforts. To support this, the bill will ensure that the progress made in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in 2020 in the marketing of transport fuels will continue, in the future. The bill also sets out that in 2030 the energy use of the transport sector should come from a 14 per cent renewable energy source. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill contains forward-looking provisions for both waste management and the energy sector, and I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-01-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I tell you honestly, I always try to be constructive with government and any other proposal, but I can't really be constructive with this proposal. This is a salad package that we are now seeing, it has some really eligible ideas, but unfortunately, we cannot support it, because there are very serious inaccuracies and inaccuracies in the essential part. [[15.30]] It is enough to highlight, for example, the 2011 CXCVI. Act No. 6 Paragraph 9: there is no such thing in particular. So what you're referring to is no legal basis, by the way. Besides, there's a part where they refer to the same thing twice and completely different. So it's a little thoughtless, hasty, conflicted with this proposal, it might have had to be worked out a little bit more, it should have taken more time, and it shouldn't have been paid attention during the epidemic period. Professionally, we can't support this part. In fact, they want to nationalise waste management and then issue them in concession rights. We have seen or seen such things before, but there is already a Hungarian example: in Békés county, if my information is correct, the son-in-law of Viktor Orbán already deals with waste management. But in other parts of Europe, of course, we know, in southern Europe, for example, Naples, we also know who is supervising waste management; I hope that they do not want to introduce something similar at home. In this package there is also an amendment to the bankruptcy law, in which the waste management authority is mentioned. I don't know about this authority, that it already exists. So I think we should have done this authority first, and then we can refer it to it at a legislative level or in a proposal, but it may be that I've been distracted by this little mishap, and I'm asking the Secretary of State to correct me in this. But the substance is nationalization. Now let's look at how this should be done economically. So if something doesn't work, you say that waste management doesn't work in Hungary, you can argue with that, because there really are parts of the country where it doesn't work properly, otherwise there are cities, municipalities from which you want to take this away from, where waste management works very well, but you want to take it under the same roof. Okay, let's just say they're right, it doesn't work, so let's put it in a hat. They say they want to create a better functioning system, a more economical system, and then issue it in concession rights. So, in fact, they're going to have the state, the taxpayers, swallow the expenses, and give the proceeds to the buddies, because that's what this proposal is about, so don't be mad at me. The replacement of the deposit fee for redemption fee: this may be the most sensitive part of the whole professionally, because unfortunately, you will not facilitate recycling or refilling, but the exact opposite. So what's going to happen is that more, most of it is going to be plastic waste, because you will not encourage manufacturers to recycle these products or rolls, because you are taking away the tax relief that they have received so far because of the deposit fee. I'll keep going. Instead of placing these obligations, recovery, preparation for recycling on the part of multi-company companies, as has already been the case at some level, it is, in fact, a state task that will be burdened on taxpayers. We have prepared it not so long ago, and you have prevented us from submitting it, so when this debate takes place, we, the People's Party Jobbik, will submit an amendment to the Waste Management Act, in which we will deal with this topic much more extensively, and we will put our proposals on far more levels in terms of waste management. I think I'm gonna talk a few more minutes in this debate, because it's pretty amazing that they're trying to pull money out of taxpayers' pockets with waste management, and they're watching how they can move it to their buddies. I find this quite simply unacceptable. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-01-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What is the starting point is that in 2020 the government adopted the climate and nature conservation action plan, in which we have already set out the objective of eliminating illegal waste disposal, as well as ensuring the redemption of glass and plastic bottles and metal boxes. On an annual basis, if we look at Hungary, nearly four million tonnes of waste is generated, of which 330,000 cubic metres is considered illegal waste. The purpose of the Union itself, to which this amendment is linked, is a single system which seeks to settle waste management in a single legislative framework. The primary aim, however, is to protect the quality of life by amending the law and to use natural resources more intelligently and to introduce the so-called circular economic model in Hungarian waste management. What is also important in the context of the legislative amendment is that it treats waste as raw material and targets the use and use of secondary raw materials in waste. The circular economic model aims to create, through market surveillance and quality assurance instruments, a mutually reinforcing control mechanism for this purpose. However, it intends to establish a coherent system of legislative changes between criminal, criminal and administrative rules. And if we look at what waste management looks like at EU level, we can also see in the EU that there is a so-called paradigm shift aimed at following the principle of the so-called waste hierarchy, the most important message of which, which is also served by this legislative amendment, is to prevent the production of waste. This is one of the most important objectives and, in addition, to prevent the creation of recycling. The EU directive sets out and expands the system of selective waste collection, as the Secretary of State said. There are more time intervals here: for bio-waste 2023, for household, hazardous waste and for textile waste up to 2025, and for municipal waste there is also a time interval: 50% by 2025, 60% by 2030 and 65% by 2035. The amendment itself implements a new system of criminal and administrative penalties, which is precisely to prevent illegal landfilling. The law creates the possibility, or the basis for, the responsibility of manufacturers to be responsible for their waste-making products. What also serves the topicality of this whole legislative amendment: last week was the European waste reduction week, this is a very important initiative, because if we look at what an important change of approach we have achieved between 2005 and 2016, if we look at EU Member States, we have reduced the generation of waste by 7 percent. And if we are also observing the important change of perspective, it is very important that since 2010, while the average Hungarian man used 160 plastic bags a year, this has now been reduced by half. These are the very important, step-by-step positive results that help us to change our minds and think about waste management. [[15.40]] The Secretary of State has also mentioned "Clean the country." The programme, in which 8200 cubic metres of waste was collected, but voluntary programmes are also very important, they are also very successful. I'd like to unplug the, you pick it! A program to free the country from 22,000 cubic meters of waste, and in 2019 for example, ITM gave HUF 240 million to 94 municipalities to eliminate illegal landfills; these are very important steps. And let me also point out, while we are talking about waste management, that the Upper Tisza Water Directorate received HUF 1.3 billion for the development of the waste disposal infrastructure. I think that this amendment is in line with the EU paradigm shift. The aim of all of us is to keep Hungary as clean as we love it, and it is very important that this type of circular waste management in Hungary in the context of this amendment is production, recovery, recycling and new mentality, which treats waste itself as a secondary raw material from raw materials and waste in order to protect our environment, because all areas of economic life are affected by waste management and thus also related to the protection of our environment. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I can't be as good-hearted as the congresswoman before me. You've been led a little bit, Madam Secretary, but I'm going to comment on this, or do you really think that in Parliament it's enough for a very, very spectacular law and for the benefit of Fidesz to quietly put on some kind of screen or some kind of cloaking net, and then we in Parliament will say how cool and beautiful it really is to look from here. Let's start a little further away, and I apologize, I promise I won't be too long. Just look at what they have done to the municipal system over the past ten years, and what they have done to the world that, whatever anyone says, we have considered one of the great successes of the 1990 regime change: the leg of the division of power that has meant the local governments could have been created. Where is the principle and the concept, honourable Members, that everyone said so beautifully, wisely and bravely at the time that decisions should be made where the information and resources are available? Where is this wonderful principle? ! You have begun to take away tasks, let us not talk about money now, but you have begun to take away basic things from local governments that I think cannot be done at the state level: education, chimney sweeping, health care, and now waste management. I was a practicing mayor, a practicing municipal man. If something is important in the life of a settlement, it is for a local leader to be able to take care of the state of public areas and the order of public areas. This is an incredibly important task. I can honestly say that in addition to social affairs, the operation of the institutions is almost one of the most important things, and you are now taking it away with just one stroke of a pen, and just and only, I think you shouldn't give me any professional arguments, because I'm going to tell you about them, it was all a failure, they're doing this for power and fiscal reasons. I'd say they don't have enough time to make these two-thirds laws, right? They seem to be running out of support. It would be worth taking the matter to the end, if you really think about this world this way, then say that the municipal system will have only one task from now on, the designation of the place of the dog runners, perhaps the organisation of its opening, and then really take everything away from the municipalities. Just agree: the world has gone beyond what you now represent in this matter, the world has gone elsewhere. There was a world like this where they thought that everything from the party center was more attributable than people know, but they sent it away, so let's see. There's this classic joke where you tell the radio to watch out, because a fool on the highway goes against traffic, and he tells you what one is, all of them. Well, don't think you're gonna go against all of you, and you're the only one who knows what's good. You shouldn't be moving this way. There are cases that should not be taken from places where, once again, there is information and the source available. So let's just run along a little bit, because you've been trying to talk about what is beautiful and attractive, obviously waste management, obviously all these environmental aspects, which Madam Secretary of State has given us in the last 25 minutes, all this is wonderful, but what really happens here is that we're dealing with a whole new thing, which we've seen surprisingly in the last few weeks of the Orbán government. So far, it has been centralization, and I have just talked about it, but there is also a new aspect: not only centralization, but also privatization with this momentum. For example, we have these state trustees, and we have this law here, so it's like they're preparing something that tells us that maybe the world isn't so bright and clear in 2022. What they're doing now with this law, what they're doing with waste management, garbage transportation, we call it doing, is practically totally excluding competition in the market in Hungary. So in Hungary we reached the point of submitting a bill to the House which makes it entirely impossible for competitors to appear on this market. And they're gonna do with this law that you're gonna put this part of the municipal estate into this company elegantly. Well, think about it: there has been a local government that has developed an unbelievable type of waste management system from EU funds, from its own resources, whether it is a tool, whatever kind of storage it is, it will now simply end up with someone who can produce an extra profit from this. This will then be balanced, but this is at least as unfair, because there is an area in which much more is added to it because of care. This will be balanced, because obviously the company will no longer use it specifically in that area, but everywhere else. This is exactly where they boast that the local government's credit was abolished, but there were huge differences in that, that 1,400 billion. Some settlements have really tried to develop themselves out of their own strength, and some have been irresponsible, let's say, now I don't want to politicalize, the county authorities accidentally compensated for them before 2010, and for all of this, nothing that didn't turn into real development, but I didn't want to go in that direction. And then there's one more thing that I think will strike me very hard, and interestingly, they won't talk about it elegantly: if there is a loss in the operation of this future company and in its daily work, the state will take it. Who wouldn't want a business like this? They'll give you the tools, they'll give you the market, and they'll say if you don't succeed, they'll give you the money, which is the difference, and you'll just have to decide how much you want to make, and what else you have to put next, I wouldn't want to add right now. Let's think about one more thing. Who doesn't remember the powerful IKVs and the various utility companies with which the ordinary citizen fought hopelessly? Do you ever think about what kind of company this is going to look like a gigantic authority that you're going to have to start fighting with right now for the ordinary citizen about whether or not they took his garbage and what kind of tariff he owes? Who's the Borsod County unit man who's got some form of garbage... I'm looking at Varga Laci right now, sorry. So, who will the Borsod County voters negotiate with in this case? How are you going to get to the high center where you can deal with your own complaints? I'll tell you the truth, I find this rather hopeless. So if you look at the past few years with integrity, a lot of us have been dealing with the different issues of waste management, well, that hasn't been a success story so far. Why don't you admit to yourself that you shouldn't go this way now, but you should go back to the direction where, once again, small units can be operated effectively, or otherwise, what I always say in terms of education, who can do it, let you do it, and if you do so, take on the task of someone who admits that you can't and can't do it. [[15.50]] So what I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that whatever you are saying here about environmental protection in the context of this law, no matter how nice and beat-up you are in tens and twenty minutes you are telling us about preserving the Earth for our future, this is not what you have submitted here, what is really behind it, is a story about something completely different. In this case, you have reached a level, because so far we've been talking about state tenders, and it's usually won by someone. For a while, Simicska, after a while, Lawrence Ripper, obviously, there'll be someone else, it was one of those things. Now you're on a level, you're bringing a law to a company that's gonna win this thing, and you're gonna put it in the Fundamental Law right now, if that's the case. Although today we do not joke about the Fundamental Law in this House [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] At least not in front of you, because that would be very inappropriate. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: What the eaves...]] Yeah, yeah. I'd like to say two more things. One is that it is not clear, Madam Secretary, when the tender will be launched. For some reason, we feel that this will be decided before the 2022 election. It's not exactly in the bill, but we feel that this is going to happen. When we say that some small uncertainty has also appeared in your back brain: it is also mentioned here that if the later government wants to sign this concession agreement, then this company will be entitled to compensation. So you've also begun preparations for trouble. Now, illegal waste is one of the things I'd like to compliment, because it's a very exciting and interesting thing. I had a suggestion, I don't remember exactly, maybe a year and a half ago, when I was trying to suggest that if there's an act in the vicinity of illegal landfills, or if there's any evidence of who delivered it, there should be a specific sanction. A specific sanction, for example, is the withdrawal of the license plate, the removal of it for an equestrian month, because, you know, there's got to be some kind of deterrent thing to do. You're making a little more progress, aren't you? You're making quite a lot of money. The very big question is always that the virtual hundred million fine is compatible with taking the license plate number of a person's car for a few weeks in particular. And in parallel, I submitted a resolution proposal at the time, in which I specifically said to regulate this sphere, to withdraw this decision and try to rebuild this waste management. Then, I don't want to hurt anyone, in one of these committee meetings, there's a government material in the room, and it's in my bag, and I've put it together by chance, of course... [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Sándor Font: Na!]] But it's true! Someone next to me... Okay, I don't want to hurt anyone, I really do. But it was true that when I came home... I saw that there was such a position on my bill. By the way, he's very smart, really, I'd have an opinion about him... so he's very good. But I wanted to say, I don't remember exactly, it was a year and a half ago, and here's what you, you or the government said, that you don't have to support my proposal because there's a lack of a systemic approach. Well, then, the system is to take it out on one person's concession. If that's what you've been thinking about, congratulations. The loss-making public service, someone said. But, I beg you, how would you change that proposal? Now you will issue a concession, not even the reduction of the rent will apply in this case. Who's gonna tell me what the price is gonna be? Oversized investments in the European Union. What this has to do with my proposal, I do not know, but does this mean that from now on you do not want to involve EU investment in waste management? Because it was considered to be oversized during the previous period, it is therefore considered that this concession company will not be able to play a role in this market in any way. There's a steady increase in outflow. As far as I know, the current waste management company has never been able to deliver its balance sheet in time, because they couldn't account for it, they couldn't compose their own business, and they have such amazing debts, and they won't pay their subcontractors in a way that they're going to do right now, but I'm just saying that they're obviously not going to deliver trash, but they're going to give it to whoever's doing it in some way. But the way and the way they're paid, there's nothing, but there's no guarantee. Now, I don't want to quote this for a long time, because I've seen from the looks here that they're taking notes. But I'm going to read you another one, but this is the last one: the goal is to preserve the benefits of the reduction of the rent. Obviously, I would have challenged it in my proposal, that's not true, but that's right, they say. In the long term, ensuring sustainability cannot be imagined without creating conditions for economies of scale. The NHKV sought and aims to ensure this by reducing the number of public services and by developing waste management regions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So their position has changed a little bit, because economies of scale are no longer an aspect, and the main aspect here is how, how to centralize it, in this process, to privatize it immediately, and then to see what will be behind it. So, Madam Secretary, I'm sorry that you were sent in here with these excellent thoughts that you said, and compared to that, you didn't let me or didn't want to talk about what was the real problem and the real question behind the law. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-134	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-135	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Yes, I'd like to take advantage of the possibility that the T/13958 would be Let us say a few words about draft law No. But before I begin, I would also like to express my general criticism to the Secretary of State that you, the government you represent, have a decision of your own, 12/2016. on ex-ante and ex-post impact assessments. I think that it will be necessary, sooner or later, to make up for it, and to read you this text of about three and a half pages, which is about what the preliminary impact assessment should include, what alternatives should be processed, presented, and on the basis of which information should be provided to Parliament in matters of great social and economic importance. The legislation also provides for ex post impact assessments, which may also be interesting in this case, because what you have brought to us has been working for a long time, you have experience of it, and in this way you should be informed about the environmental and health consequences, the impact on the administrative burden. However, you are also in that category, but I see that this is the peculiarity of the Ministry of Innovation, that it is so innovative that it does not prepare these impact assessments in order, it does not provide Parliament with any decision-making. From here on out, there's only one thing worse than the government knowing that. And then I have to say that you, like the blind horse, go forward, do what you do, do what happens, and make decisions from your own fountain head, prepare decisions, and now you're trying to make decisions, like this one. And then, of course, it is what we read in the law, in contrast to or even in some parts of it, but surely we can think of alternatives, but there is much more aversion in contrast to what you have described here. I would therefore like to predict that I will not argue that we should accept this, but rather the opposite, that this law in this form is unacceptable. I said it two debates ago, and now I have to repeat it, because apparently the subject of concession as an opportunity or as a legal opportunity and method of organisation, you liked it very much, but it seems to me that this is nothing more than a solution before the mid-life crisis. Here you are no longer able to deliver, but I think that you are spending a great deal of energy on expropriating certain sectors and, in this case, the waste management sector, making decisions that will bring benefits to others or those you are willing to choose for the future, and thinking that this will help you survive, and that you will be able to continue to do so. [[16.00]] However, how difficult this will be or what challenges it will be for you, let us go a little deeper and see what else is worth considering. Next year, the national kukaholding is now receiving budget support of HUF 50 billion. That's already been decided. Regional waterworks cost HUF 23 billion and district heating providers HUF 25 billion to enable them to operate. This is overall: here, the three public service providers require essential support of HUF 100 billion, and this is how the waste management public service works at all. After that, how the government plans to do so and hearing your minister a few days ago, as said at the committee meeting, how much cheaper the services you mentioned are. The only thing they forget is to count 100 billion forints. And then it's quite different, because it's not really important for you to provide this service well, but it's something else in your mind. Therefore, I repeat once again that one of the steps taken by the government as a panic action during this crisis is to carry out a rescue action with this law and try to make such a decision accordingly. However, I think that the Minister of Finance, who is not far from you, will also be in a difficult situation, when there are thousands of billion forints in extra demand and this area will also have to be criticised or decided. However, this debate will certainly be interesting, when it is not only about how much better Hungary will perform in such a period, Madam Secretary of State: in 2008 the country's economy and the budget were set at 0.6 per cent in proportion to its GDP, and it was able to overcome this to 0.4 per cent in 2018. So, while you're here with a bit of a textbook taste for a long time, but list what you want to achieve, I think that the reality that appears in the mornings in the garbage truck means something quite different; and rather it means who will deliver the garbage precisely, and how a significant part of it will be recycled. And if you want to solve this with the same solution as you did when you started reorganizing education and authorized from the Ministry when chalk could be bought, when the window could be glazed, and here: when will the trash can be replaced, well, then, my dear Secretary of State, you will need a lot of phones and patience to meet everything. I therefore think that I have made another argument in addition to why this law cannot be supported. While this proposal, by transforming the waste management system, therefore, aims to achieve essentially the same thing as the proposal for a single electronic sale of public services: to nationalise the system and the market in question and then to transfer it to the selected private undertaking through concession, particularly in relation to the capital and the government; and thus, municipalities are coming in. I've worked as mayor for years. I think that you are taking an important service to the people so far away from us that there will only be a lot of problems and criticism. So instead of letting the settlements operate within the local government, they're taking you away from them; not just the resources, but here they think that you can tell us everything, and you can do everything right. I think you want to make a bad decision with bad preparation. I'm sorry that Madam Secretary is putting her name and person in this story. The national kukaholding by regularly not paying the Metropolitan Public Service Provider for the service performed, referring to the fact that the capital does not issue the bill by deadline, Madam Secretary of State, how interested is the public? Nothing. And you can't even organize this properly. The fact that the management of this concession will be entrusted to Mr.Antal Rogán after practically the settlement policy and after the successful completion of it will be carried out through a national concession office is indeed a question of how well Hungary will perform in this area. We know that in the field of settlement bonds, he performed well, and hundreds of billions of forints were removed from the amounts due to Hungary. And the only thing I would like to add to this is that in this area, the European Union has been very generous and has now been providing opportunities and resources for the development of a system of waste management in Hungary, and we are processing waste as much as possible in accordance with the spirit and opportunities of today. In this context, it has not been well resolved during your governance in the last ten years in the regions to which these funds were intended. Dear Secretary of State, Four of the poorest regions of the European Union are in Hungary. And in these four regions, instead of giving them the opportunity to do so for them, instead, they take away the possibility of local government from these municipalities first and at the same time distract the tasks which they would otherwise be able to organise best. So you are detracting from that source, you are withdrawing an opportunity, and with this law you are also contributing to the reduction of the local government in Hungary. Instead, they're trying to do something else. We therefore consider this law unacceptable, and we do not support it, nor do we want it to work. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-136	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This law is once again a special Fidesz-KDNP mixed salad law. Once again, the government has managed to bring together a salad law that changes 22 laws under one smoke on more than 140 pages by collecting more subjects. There is everything here: this draft does not just list completely different topics. It is also unreasonable in the sense that certain necessary legislative harmonisation issues, some forward-looking and thus eligible regulatory elements, and already conceptually unacceptable points, are mixed. This is an old trick for the Orbán government to put a land mine in one of the changes that seem smooth, even as a rare exception, good and useful, because of which the opposition is forced to protest, vote or abstain. [[16.10]] And you will always make up for the fact that the opposition voted against the nice things, not to mention the real reason for the opposition. But let's look at what we're talking about here, not to mention technical changes. There's a lot going on in this proposal. At last, the government seemed to recognize what the countries of the developed world have been doing in practice for a long time in order to move towards a sustainable economic model in the form of a circular economic model. It is a pity that, over the last two and a half cycles, your economic policy has so far been in sharp conflict with all these principles. But it's nice that now at least they're trying to talk about the circular economy and create a kind of legal framework for it. Among the positive elements are many that have long been promoted by both LMP and civil green organisations. I note that LMP has submitted its proposals for this in Parliamentary resolution proposals years ago. These include, among other things, extending the protection of consumers against the frequent production practices of so-called built-in obsolescence, which can indeed provide consumers with durable, efficient, repairable and refurbished tools. We see practical aspects in the list. The question is how much the planned government regulation will be able to facilitate their implementation and when this regulation will be in place. The same applies to the formulation of the basic requirements for the extended producer responsibility scheme, since they must not only be formulated but must be enforced. In this context, however, we cannot go beyond the fact that enforcement of laws, especially on environmental and sustainability issues, can be said to be a conscious weakness of the government because of the preference of other interests. A small, but important and symbolic element of the transition to a circular economy is that they would finally make the redemption of beverage packaging mandatory in Hungary. We have also been pushing for this for a long time, and not just for us, but also for the population, because the abandoned waste that comes out of it is slowly covering the country. There have also been many controversial processes in this area recently. Waste islands, mainly built from EU sources, have helped to recover, and the population has also learned to use them, even if not all are disciplined. However, due to the problems associated with their operation, they have ceased in many places or are only able to collect certain substances. Instead, a proper obligation was made for stores to provide pots for recovery over certain floor areas. In recent times, however, this also seems to be declining, probably even here in the absence of sufficient control. In any case, we are also curious about the details of the system to be introduced, since the devil is in the details. It is an additional aspect of the question of the proportion of reloads planned. We need targets, economic incentives and a tighter timetable. Another question is, for example, who, where and how will provide recycling. It would be nice to know what the government has in mind to develop and encourage the necessary back-up industry, who will be responsible for facilitating the short-circuited circular economy, the government or the planned concession partner. This will allow us to move on to another important element of the bill, which aims to transform the entire domestic waste management for the longest time. We know precisely that in many respects we are lagging behind in the area of selective collection and exploitation, not only of the more conscious countries in this area, but also of the European Union standards. We therefore welcome the extension of the system of selective collection of waste by the harmonisation of EU directives, so that for hazardous household waste it should be implemented by 2025, for bio-waste by 2023 and for textile waste by 2025. Under the law, municipal waste recycling targets will rise to 55 per cent by 2025, to 60 per cent by 2030 and to 65 per cent by 2035. At the same time, the law provides for the phasing-out of waste disposal, resulting in the disposal of waste which can only be regarded as a final and inevitable solution. Accordingly, the law requires that by 2035 the proportion of municipal waste in landfills should be reduced to 10% or less of the total municipal waste generated. We believe that these are very useful and important goals, but the government strategy is not yet visible to them, even though we are running out of time. Instead of dumping, the solution is to reduce the resulting waste and to recover and recycle. This is also a major challenge. The EU Directive set significantly higher recycling targets for packaging waste recycling than the current targets, which should be met by 2025 and 2030. The only question now is how and by what means the government intends to achieve all these goals. One is likely to be a useful but end-of-pipe solution, the introduction of a system of sanctions for illegally abandoned waste, which is significantly stricter and more nuanced than before, which can be agreed under these circumstances. The other is an institutional and operational solution, a kind of fidesz hussar cutting, which reshapes the entire system of waste management. Let us recall that since the accession of the European Union, the system of domestic waste management has been transformed and modernised. Cooperation between municipalities and service providers has led to significant progress and a system of almost self-financing. For the past ten years, the Orbán government has been working hard on this system. In 2011, it banned non-state public services, and from then on only municipal-owned non-profit companies were allowed to carry out garbage shipments. In response to the shortcomings of the new system, the national kukaholding was created in 2016, but the decision caused even more trouble, a huge payment, due to the inability of the new public organisation, to the extent that, due to a new rule, disaster protection now provides waste disposal in many settlements. As an example, the cost of operating the public service system was HUF 140 billion net per year, while the waste charge collected from the public amounted to HUF 74.7 billion in 2019. The sales of waste materials are an additional source, and so far it has been only HUF 3-4 billion, so we need HUF 54 billion in additional resources to run the current system. The government has been pouring money from the budget into the system for years, but since it was fundamentally flawed, it's no use. Now they're gonna kill two birds with one stone. By creating a complex, yet new institutional system, this includes a new office, a new authority, a new coordinating body, a concession, a concession contract, and a quasi-transfer of responsibility to the concession partner, who is either in line with his or her task or not. This is a clear admission that the deliberate destruction of the domestic waste management system in recent years has only led to chaos and worsening of the situation. Through the concession, it creates a monopoly in the hands of a single partner from a public service, with all its benefits and at the same time its huge risk. As a first step, therefore, in the draft legislation submitted these days, all the essential elements of waste management, including those that have worked at least partially on a market basis, become public tasks. In the second step, after tendering, it will be awarded a concession throughout the country. [[16.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The winning company will probably not suffer as it can expect, inter alia, public service charges imposed by law, participation in environmental product charges and fees related to the redemption system, part of the revenue from the extended producer responsibility system and other public resources, as well as all the necessary means for the activities that the State is einstanting with this law in exchange for a solid compensation from its current owners, such as municipalities. The concession relationship does not exclude the use of aid policy instruments by the concession company, i.e. it will once again be a free place for EU funds, which will be in question as to how and what they will use it for. There is a certain but insufficient requirement and obligation to the consort in the regulation that has just been submitted, but there is more honey on the string: it will be placed, money and privileges from the state on the basis of a ten-year rolling plan under conditions not specified in the regulation, and if there is a problem, it will be able to leave the party with a six-month notice. The current dozens of service providers with great experience, who have so far been well and bad, will be completely vulnerable, because they will depend on the grace of the consort, can continue to function as subcontractors, and the question is how much they will cost. This centralization, state monopoly building, and then a one-channel concession is once again a built-in NER cash pump, which may be ready for post 2022, especially since such a public service can blackmail any government or government if it does not function properly, but it can be put at risk the entire country as a whole. According to the LMP, the government should disassemble this salad, consisting of the amendment of 22 laws, resubmit good elements and throw its monopolistic efforts on waste management into the trash. We hope that you will follow our proposals. We cannot support this bill in this form. Thank you. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-138	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, please.
u2020-12-01-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13958 proposal is discussed by the Hungarian Parliament, and 26 laws are included in this proposal through 102 paragraphs. Now it is not week after week, but it must be said that we are faced with every hour with legislative proposals that intend to capture the Hungarian government from May 2022. Totally public life, the economy, public services, the financial system and the public system are intended to put the public system, with appointments, in a position that at any time a new government is virtually unable to move beyond its own office. He's being held prisoner, they're building cells, this proposal is also one of the cells. We have to acknowledge that. When the young secretary of state read this proposal, it occurred to me that if a politician from any country in Europe had just come in here and listened to this very beautiful talk and these words, which stand out from this 102 paragraph, especially the explanation added to it, he would have said that he would not go anywhere, this is the most modern, advanced, innovative country in the world, which only exists, because this proposal would appear entirely to be so. But we have learned fidesz, and we see that when it is a very noble goal, and the European Union is doing a very sensitive and extremely high level of work on waste management and environmental protection, and it creates expectations for the Member States when these proposals are made along these principles, I see and hear in my mind the participants who tell the creators that no, let's use these beautiful principles, let's say to the Hungarian society that we are going to achieve such a wonderful waste management that a piece of garbage will not remain unexploited, just to do it already, please smuggle into it the waste management activity that is to be played over to the pals' circles, so that there will not be such a great flame in this proposal. It would be possible to talk for a long time about the professional part of this proposal, but the reason you don't do it is because you don't deserve it, not the proposal, but the authors and those behind you. Now, think about it. No impact assessment. There is a history of waste management in this country, there is a history of central waste management, and permanent problems dominated this service. Then they settled it with the municipalities, saying, as our fellow Member Gyula Molnár said, that local leaders can see better whether there is order or not in public areas, whether they take the waste or not, or if the citizens were able to resolve this issue much more, if they were having difficulties, in local offices or with the representative of the local service provider. What's happening now? It brings it back to the state level, again creates a huge power of inertia for this already step-by-step specialty, because in our country it is a step-by-step specialty, so that we have no idea what we can expect from this service provider, and if the current service provider feels that he has not been able to make such a good deal, he can even get rid of it after six months' notice. Well, everyone knows that a national waste collection system cannot be rebuilt in that time, not to mention that this type of service provider is not lining up in this country because the entire economic life's capital resources have been concentrated on a few people by running money from the budget through public procurement, and then we have not even talked about EU money, nor about overpriced funds. So what I can say, my honourable fellow Member, honourable Members and honourable Secretary of State, is that the goal is very beautiful, it is beautiful, but everyone in this House knows that there are 65 Members sitting here on the opposition side that this is all a beautifully packed business reenactment. What are you talking about? It's a circular economy. Yeah. A normal, sober-thinking person, especially at a level of technological development where we have been since the '90s, would say that yes, please, it is very good that you finally like to think about this, it is a pity that you didn't start 30 to 40 years ago, because then we wouldn't still be building trash mountains, because while Austria has been heating with garbage for a very long time, we are still building trash mountains, right, and it is quite astonishing that in the 17th year of our membership of the European Union, we are still talking about how to achieve the circular economy, and how we could integrate every piece of garbage back into economic life without polluting our environment and building trash mountains. What's he saying? Let's consider the trash second-hand material. Well, it's been a long time. Well, it's been a second-raw material for a long time, but how interesting it is that there was some effort to build and develop the recycling industry in the country, but somehow there was always a mix of dilettants in the environment where this could have been built. And by the way, in the tenth year of the Orbán government, you're going to present us with such a proposal? Why not the second one, the third one at the latest? Or is it because someone wants this business, please? Well, it would be much easier, Madam Secretary, to tell your bosses not to be burned here, but to send you with that mandate, please, I don't like lying, my parents didn't raise me to do this, and I'm not going to tell the Members of Parliament that this proposal is nothing but the implementation of a beautiful European Union package of expectations. And what I said at the beginning: whoever arrives here today, and sees this proposal, believes that he has come to a modern country, where the environmental approach in the political community is common, where they finally want to realize that the country is not dominated by garbage mountains. And there is one thing that you have not been able to say, and it is not in this proposal, and there is nowhere in this House that we are going to talk about the need to change the attitude of Hungarian society, because there is an endless amount of illegal waste on the road from bush to bush. [[16.30]] There is nothing in the government, but there is nothing in it that seeks to change this public view. Not just fines and penalties, but a motivational system to find out the man who's dumping his waste into the community, realizes that he's actually hurting himself, because he's destroying his own environment, his own health, by infiltrating the soil by releasing harmful substances from the waste. So what I'd like to ask of the respected government is that if you're gonna do the business, you're gonna have to admit it. But if you want to do something for the Hungarian society in terms of waste management, then, on the one hand, leave where you have been, let those people who are close to the population organise it, of course, with the view of strengthening the circular economy. Otherwise, please also make the proposal that we could talk about and we are happy to vote on how to finally turn the Hungarian population's waste management approach into a European and environmental approach. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-140	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It would now be possible to make two-minute speeches. Since no one wanted to make use of this, we are now going to hear the speeches announced in advance in writing. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik Group.
u2020-12-01-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let us start by saying that this is a 140 billion HUF sector, that we are discussing here today in the Hungarian Parliament. Forints 70-80 billion of waste management are collected from the population at a reduced fee by the conglomerate. The state is adding 50 billion forints. What's gonna change? I have nothing to say about reading the bill. You're not doing anything new, you don't want to do anything but play this giant big business to a company, a consort that's gonna live happily in a dump. We all know that waste and waste management are one of the most important sectors, taking into account environmental aspects, which can be profitable. This has been demonstrated by a multitude of municipalities, who have created a public service provider which, although at the beginning, was operating at a loss, but knowing the system, is now a profitable sector. The transformation and development of the waste management sector in line with EU standards is a commendable thing. This is exactly what needs to be done in Hungary: it is very important to have an approach and to collect waste as selectively as possible, as the EU's targets are... otherwise it is very short, because in waste management the time horizon of 10-15 years is very short. The fact that 90% of the waste collected has to be diverted is a very tough task. We heard from the secretary of state that this is now at 24-25 percent, so it's a good direction. The achievement of this goal by 2035 is obviously a very, very big job and a total social problem that we need to solve. The government's activities in the field of waste management are characterised by haste. Not too long ago, in 2016, we received Kukahading, NHKV Zrt. as a gift in January, only after the holidays, which still has problems paying the service fee in time for the tasks performed by the public service providers. Not to mention, and I remember about two or three years ago, when the population simply didn't get a check on garbage shipments for quarters, and then they were all pumped up at the same time, if I remember correctly, around Christmas, about the several quarterly checks that they had to give up at the same time, because they couldn't even make it by 2016, by the time NHKV Zrt. The billing system at least works. This is precisely one of the eloquent proofs of your government: quickly, quickly, this transformation was carried out. With this, the NHKV Zrt. to this day, you cannot pay the service fee for each quarter in time to the public service provider, and there are serious financing problems that have now been faced by who? For the municipalities. It is no wonder that in some regions there have been serious financing problems on this issue. The municipalities, if they could, have put in it, if not, then they are again there, that the solution to funding is simply impossible, and they are constantly rolling this problem around in front of them, that they are unable to deliver the service to an adequate standard, and, as my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck said, in many places the locals need disaster protection and they are transporting the garbage, which is absolutely amazing in 2020. With this, of course, the municipalities have also taken on an immense task of somehow maintaining this system. This seems to be resolved with nationalisation; but that is exactly the point that it only seems to be resolved, because that is not the case here, we all know that. Although it was said here that this salad law amends twenty-six laws, but this is all connected, we can see the directions: electricity, district heat. We see that you are preparing the ground to include waste in the production of electricity. There is nothing wrong with that, because we can see that this may be necessary, because if we can gain energy and use waste in this way, this could even be a good goal. It is also commendable in the bill to develop new types of collection points. I think it's a very good proposal, and you can live up to the demands or hopes attached to it that make the public, even more than collection points, consciously treat garbage. We know garbage is the biggest deal, but if we can get a little bit of this off through these collection points, it can only be positive. It is also a positive thing, therefore, that I try to highlight the positive things that are already beginning to form a vision in elementary school, this is the future. So I also think that the diversion of garbage and the shaping of attitudes are extremely important. But, I must say, this law is nothing more than a power-political instrument. In a glazed frosting, the secretary of state spoke for twenty minutes about the importance of environmental protection. We fully agree with that, but that is not what this proposal is about. In fact, the municipalities now have a mandatory task of transporting waste. You're gonna take that away. You're gonna take it out of Mötv. And what do they do? The task of public cleanliness is left in the municipalities, everything else is nationalised and then practically privatised under a concession law, and they want to hand over this whole big system. To whom? That's the point, right now, that the consort will be able to appear in this system based on the applications, and then he will be alone. This is a very big question for me, and I also see a contradiction in the proposal that this will be the concessionary company that will work throughout Hungary. But now the law uses the concept of public services in plurality, so it's not quite clear to me now, once someone wins this concession law, then exactly how it will work. We see that the office will make all kinds of regulations, and there will be detailed rules, which is, of course, one of the eloquent proofs of your governance and legislation, so that they will regulate everything in regulations, so as not to create voices that may not please the opposition benches here. But we can see that this is NHKV Zrt. He couldn't do it. Now, what good is putting another one there when they've built the system, pumping billions into it? Now someone's gonna wonder and that's gonna know better? If the NHKV Zrt. failed to rise to the challenge in four years, will the new one learn from June 1, 2023? So it's quite simply amazing what you're trying to push through the House with this bill. In the concession procedure, they will give practically the same tasks as the public services will now perform. Then why do you have to bring all this here? Why is it centralized? Well, let's just be happy that if in areas where the public service system is working well, it can work profitablely. Now why do you want to override this, and that's how we'll know the big fucking business is gonna channel the money? But the lobby worked because a few areas were left behind so that we wouldn't bring them into this law, the vehicle parts, the demolition waste and the hazardous waste, they would be separately hijacked. So you can see that the entire waste management system itself is inconsiderate and hasty. [[16.40]] I also came to a positive on my note. I welcome the passage from the VAT Act to the fact that in association agreements and asset distributions, municipalities will not be subject to the obligation to pay general sales tax. Very, very many have suffered from the way VAT is solved in the division of assets in assets purchased through old ISPA and other applications. The legislation now provides for an opportunity to do so. Now, if that was the only thing written down, I'd say I think we should definitely support that. What I see as a problem in this passage is that you will only have six months to conclude contracts with the new public service provider, the new I don't know what, because I haven't yet solved your name, with a new company, company or organization. Therefore, after the termination of the public service contracts, I see that 6 months' time is extremely short. That's what we should think about. But the fact that VAT will not have to be paid for free transfers of wealth is certainly a welcome step. And then we arrived at the point of setting the concession fee. Well, let's have a man on his feet today who can tell us a year before, say, towards the end of 2021, when we have to start applying, he can tell us and offer us this concession law. Well, there's so much unknown factor and factor in this whole system that someone should do a discounted cash flow calculation and give their offer, I just think it's the impossible category. And you guys must have figured it out, and I wouldn't be surprised if these offers were in a drawer somewhere else. But once the legislation provides one more, and I specifically ask the Secretary of State where she is, page 54, is 53/F. in a new paragraph, that a concession fee must be paid or other compensation shall be granted. What other compensation did you have in mind? Well, I'd like to know how this concession fee is going to be paid, because, to say the least, it's a little weird. In the beginning, I told you that the sector is 140 billion HUF, and the state is putting 50 billion HUF into loss finance now, because they cannot collect this much from the population, and now it is included in this plan that the state will finance the loss for six years, and then if they worked well, they will pay it back. Well, who the hell's gonna pay it back? Well, that's what it says now. Madam Secretary is shaking her head, but she's saying that the loss will also be paid by the state. Well, now, from 2023 to 2029, where will the consort be interested in offering an offer in which loss financing... will work on a business basis! It will not strive to give the best possible offer, which will otherwise be good for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian population. You're just not gonna be interested in this. And that they also want to finance the cost of capital with Hungarian taxpayers? It's quite simply amazing. Obviously, there is also an opportunity for the president of the MEKH to set out the framework for this to work. There are a lot of question marks in this whole proposal, but at the end of the proposal, although I do not have much time left to worry about the municipalities, which is continuing between the walls of the House, because it is an extremely big task for the municipalities, that is not a question. Funding for this is also an extremely important task. But there are local governments that can do this, and don't give it to me, they can even get a profit out of this system, and in the present situation, when you keep taking away all kinds of resources, how good it is for the municipalities to get their own income. Now they're taking that away again! What you've been doing to the local government over the past few years, especially in the last year and a half, is simply not something you can find words for. No wonder everyone now has their hair completely on fire when we see that it's affecting another sector again and that they're robbing the municipalities of another source of income. I'm not saying that all the municipalities worked fantastically in this system, but there are some people who have a major source of income. From this, you will now remove the soil with this system that will enter into force on 1 July 2023. However, I am pleased that at least the property is not operated on, so only with the state-owned infrastructure, because we know that the waste infrastructures implemented from European Union funds are the property of Hungarian people, they have received this money, so that it remains with the Hungarian people. The best owners are the municipalities, by the way. You know this, too, that local governments know best what people need. At the end of the non plus ultra of this proposal, the 92/H. Paragraph 6 of this Article. The owner and the operators of the assets are obliged to protect the consistency of the assets, so that they are protected by the owner, in this case the municipalities, associations and other improvements to ensure the provision of the public service by 1 July 2023. So you don't give any forints to local governments and associations, but you expect them to provide this development with this proposal. The sector is in huge trouble, the infrastructure is down, and it would take a lot of money to keep this paragraph going. Quite simply, this, which you have placed on the table, is unacceptable, and it means, in particular, a blood vessel cut that I also cannot find. Madam Secretary, I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-12-01-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the end of the year, we're discussing a whole face toast proposal. I would like to make it clear right from the beginning that if there were some kind of green amendment here, I would be the first to appreciate it. Well, this isn't it. This proposal is not about greening, it is not about some kind of greening, and I am not preparing for this at all for the next 15 minutes. In short, in the last ten years, you have changed waste management, the system itself, until it is completely out of order, but you are still trying to steal, so in a reflex, like a Pavlov reflex, you are starting to nationalise and practically take out the entire system and organisation of waste management from the responsibility of the municipalities. This is completely irrational, totally unacceptable. I would like to say that if you could talk to people a little bit, you would see that we expect you to have the waste delivered in time, the largest possible amount recycled and recycled, everyone in this country can pay for it, we want a reliable, good service, and not, for example, growing illegal landfills, and I could continue, but we will talk about this later. For us to get this far, it is worth a little review of these ten years, as this is a little bit of what your entire governance is about, how you dealt with waste. We saw that in 2010, when you took over the steering column, there was a functioning system, it wasn't perfect, we also know that it was mostly possible to stand up with EU funds, but it worked, it gave jobs to thousands of people, it operated the selective collection on the assembly island, it produced good recovery and recovery numbers every year, illegal waste disposal was in decline, and the whole system didn't cost extra money to taxpayers. Where are we now, ten years later? All domestic waste management companies are either grossly loss-making or bankrupt, the need for selective collection has declined in recent years, and we can also see that the phenomena previously known only from the third world or from troubled areas have emerged that we are waiting for the dumpsters to be moved, different waste heaps are accumulated next to the collection vessels, and nothing is happening. Well, then, of course, there was an epidemic threat, so then they put the shipments of waste in disaster control, but all of this, with taxpayers paying a thousand, required a minimum of 50 billion additional public expenditures in the whole story only during the first half of the year. The fact that we have come this far from 2010 to 2020 has a story of our own, and you, Madam Secretary, have a heavy responsibility. [[16.50]] The story began there that the specialised companies were expelled, they said that only state or municipal majority-owned companies could empty the trash cans and then did not stop here, and that is the problem, because you raised new taxes and fees at the same time, and in the spirit of the ruckus, remember Szilárd Németh, he stood here and said: this, please, is the ruckus that is taking place, and they could not raise a price. From then on, the whole story seemed to me like if someone had told you that you were going to find a lot of money in the bins, but by the time you got there, you couldn't find anything there because of your own dilettantism, only loss, and you could see the oligarchs in the business at the time, and they created this OHÜ. Let's remember the National Waste Management Agency, because there was one. No one really knew exactly what he was doing, since the waste collection itself was done by municipal companies. We remember that many billions of public funds were scattered; the fleet of cars, telephone fleets came; the conclusion of advertising contracts at astronomical prices, that was thick. So someone must have done well around the government, too, but at one point there wasn't much to point out, so they stopped this OHÜ, and here came the trick, because instead of putting salt in his place, they created National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Zrt., the kukhading, which, unlike his name, didn't coordinate anything, and didn't manage anything, but also phone and car fleet and expensive commercials, and then they found a job for him: billing and collecting prizes. Now, from here on out, there are a lot of people who can talk about this, because it was a complete iron circle in itself, but it looked like the big fidesz waste disposal, that the municipal service providers collected and transported the waste, and in Hungarian they were the ones who worked. And NHKV billed and collected the fee, and then kept the money well for itself, bankrupting all the remaining waste managers that had somehow wasted until the NHKV appeared. However, we are talking about a business for which the Orbán government spent at least HUF 20 billion, but it could not even solve the fact that the company would be able to bill and pay the task of the garbage companies in a year. So let's just taste this thing a little bit: they collect money from the population, but with a huge delay, they just continue to transfer it to companies that work effectively. What will be the result of this whole story? A thorough rag. We are talking about bled-out companies that could not simply spend more on infrastructure and tasks beyond basic tasks, and this is the big problem here, please, because if anyone knows that green representatives know that it is worth spending on waste, and it is worth organizing it in such a way that it is worth putting as little pressure on the environment as possible, but if these companies break apart, they can barely keep themselves above water, let alone improve. And from this point on, some of the assembly islands have ceased to exist, many waste yards have been closed down, illegal landfills have reappeared, which is a fidesz reflex, which is what this proposal has in mind to deal with by law enforcement. There's another way to do this. And that story went on for ten years. They have built this monstrum, which now begins to collapse under its own weight, and they still do not realize that then municipal waste management is not a state but a municipal task; they are still not looking for a solution, but going in the other direction. They want to wipe out the local government completely. Here comes the new state mammoth. Now they want to create this for 35 billion, and they've given it the name: the National Office for Circular Economy. They'll be doing the fidesz dumpster evacuation, so we're talking 35 billion forints. I'm very sensitive, Madam Secretary, when someone paints green. In the last ten years of Fidesz, I've seen devastation in this country. You're not gonna be famous for steering green. You are the government of tree cuttings; you are the government of the destruction of the green institutional system in Hungary [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] ; You are the government of the destruction of health and education, and you will not be the ones who are going to do green-waste management in this country, but at least you can see it precisely because we know you, you are the same, so we know exactly what you're up to. And here it is, it cannot be hidden, the entire waste sector is to be put into concession to a properly selected contractor or company, and I have read it from this law very much, along with the ownership of the assets of the companies concerned. This is another thousand billion, along with a solid income from the monopoly. Madam Secretary! There's a lot to talk about, and I think that's the point, and we found corruption in this law, too. By the way, we've been paying very special attention to their laws submitted at night. So I understand why they're doing this in the dark, they're not proud of it. What's left out and left out is again the expertise. The other is going to be a problem because in the European Union such waste management is not very much a monopoly on the use of waste in concessions, they are not so familiar with it, so they will have to deal with it as well. And by the way, what I'm terribly sorry about is exactly what you're trying to make us think you're doing this because you're not doing it for the environment and the human service. I have mentioned to you, too, to you, to the entire House, what people expect of a well-functioning system: to reliably remove the garbage; to make it the greenest possible solution; to pay for it, and it would not be normal to mess with a system in ten years. So it also shows that you do not want to perform the service properly at all. If they wanted to do it right, they would leave this to the municipalities, who can operate this system stable and well. And if there's a problem somewhere, there should be specific help there. And at all, the whole message of this proposal remains what we have seen, seen in education, seen in health care, this mindless centralization mania, which is used to attack a section of the economy over and over again. We've had this before in this country, we know what it's become. It will not be much better now, Madam Secretary. And, you know, I'm starting to feel this way, seeing the whole fidesz movement, that you guys didn't really want to change the system at the time of the change of regime, but you just didn't have the patience to wait until you were a young K.I.S., I don't know if you could take over from the old ones. So they did the new pro-state planning management system for themselves. You're a little bit like the people you've been trying to fight, and what I see is that in 2020 we should not be talking about laws of this kind. And I would very much like you to not abuse the green view at all, because, once again, in the last ten years, you have proved a million times that you do not want to do good for Hungary, and you do not want to do green Hungary, but want to work corruption and work in your own pockets. This is totally unacceptable to us, as is the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-01-144	Dear Parliament, The second round of written speakers will now follow. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I can't find words. It is quite amazing, quite amazing to hear, fellow Members, that they are trying to take the bill before us from a pro-government side in a completely different direction, and they are trying to talk only about the positives that are actually in existence, so as to cover up what this motion is about. After all, it must be recognised, Honourable Parliament, that the establishment of a more serious sanction system, the steps towards the elimination of illegal waste disposal, or the strengthening of environmental aspects, are eligible objectives, and I am trying to set a good example in this respect. And I think that it is also worthwhile to have a substantive debate on these issues at Parliament's level here in plenary. But that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, but that last Tuesday night we got used to this last night's submission from you, Zsolt Semjén and László Palkovics presented this proposal, the proposal on which we had already heard information, and I also tried to find out what they were planning to do. It can be seen that by transforming waste transport and management into a public task, you, my fellow government representatives, are preparing to provide this activity to private companies in a concession procedure, as is the case with trafikmutyi. [[17.00]] We all experienced this throughout the country, so this was the case in Vas County, which I thought was particularly worrying at the time, and it was amazing how they also tried to wrap it in a nice robe. We can see the same thing now. When I consulted with József Kopcsándi on the matter, after asking me to look into what the government was up to a few months ago, I submitted written questions to you. Unfortunately, I had to experience that, of course, I was not surprised, because in the overwhelming majority of cases, this is the case, that they did not give a meaningful answer to the points that I have made about what they are about to do. After all, I had already written what a lot of people in the press were saying, that this concept will have an impact in a direction similar to that of a tramp dog. I think that the decommitment that will affect the municipalities is the loss of property, which is also extremely detrimental to the local authorities that are already in a bad situation, and that is particularly true now in the period of the coronal virus epidemic, in this context I have tabled countless concrete proposals as Members of Parliament of Vas County, President of the Joint Vas County Association, and we have also tried to make concrete proposals and signals at local level... then we can see, my fellow members of the government, that further steps are being taken in this direction. It's a disgrace! It is shameful, as there is a fear that the quality of service will also fall, and we have seen many examples of this in the period behind us. My fellow Members have tried to point out that, by the way, the steps taken over recent years towards nationalisation have also brought extremely negative results, and you are now putting another shovel on it, since this proposal is nothing more than a new penalty for local governments. You are punishing the local authorities, but not just them, so not only the local governments, but everyone who lives in specific settlements, just because they did not, where appropriate, support mayoral candidates and candidates, and we can be sure that Fidesz-near businessmen and businesses will be the focus, that is what this proposal is about, not anything else. I must say, Honourable Parliament, that the people of Szombathely and Vas County may be faced with a drastic increase in waste prices as a result of this bill, and, as I have already said, indeed, the deteriorating service is floating there as an opportunity, and they have not been able to eliminate these fears in the past, and unfortunately, I am sure that we will have to deal with it. And our countrymen will have to face this when they have to pay high housing costs anyway, and in addition to daily spending, this will be another serious burden for them, especially in view of the current situation, the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Indeed, there is also a legitimate question of what will happen to the instruments, how you will compensate the municipalities. Of course, this is a false question, since we have seen it in recent times in no way. You have been constantly pulling them away from the municipalities, constantly putting them in a difficult position, when we can see that there is no need to go too far, enough to neighbouring Austria, that in the current epidemic situation they are trying to help local governments in all countries, I would add that businesses, too, I am thinking of micro and small businesses in particular. However, when such proposals are made either by other opposition colleagues or by myself, they are already blocked at Commission level, and otherwise any constructive motion is put on the table of committees, we can experience this. Therefore, they do not answer the questions, they are not open to any substantive proposals, and unfortunately we can see once again that you are trying to present this extremely damaging goal, with which you are kicking another huge one into the municipalities. I can promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the next period, my colleagues and I will be watching with árgus eyes how this bill will turn out, after it will become a law, since we have no doubts, no illusions, no part of the government side, I am sure that there are Members who are well aware that this is what this proposal is really about, but, as has always been, some exceptions have been found only over the last few years, all of us will vote in favour of this proposal before us. But I can promise you that I will detect any irregularities or even any signs of corruption, then I will take the necessary steps for the good of our honest compatriots, especially the people of Szombathely, the Vas County. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-12-01-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We will continue with the speeches of Members seeking a normal word. Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz, please.
u2020-12-01-147	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This issue, which we are talking about here, is so important and serious that some parts of it are two-thirds. I can say that good and reasonable waste management is environmental protection. This is done to protect the environment and human health, all amendments and new regulations. For Hungary's Government and governing parties, Fidesz-KDNP, environmental protection and environmental protection are important. One of our goals is to clean up the country, our environment, from waste dumped decades ago. There is a need for serious sanctions in this area, a need for strong control by the authorities. It is necessary to prevent the recycling of illegal waste. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's clean up our environment together and take care of it. This requires a comprehensive change. We also believe that the incentive effect of the redemption system is expected to reduce the amount of soft drink bottles thrown away. In this way, garbage can become a new resource. The Government of Hungary not only talks about environmental protection, but also acts and makes decisions on this matter. I would like to point out to my fellow Members the eight-point climate action plan announced by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, one of the points of which is the elimination of illegal landfills. The Prime Minister talked about increasing the number of electric cars, increasing the number of solar collectors, planting trees, protecting rivers, being careful about dealing with disposable plastics, and also about the need for green bonds in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, In the interests of protecting our environment, in the interests of green Hungary, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-148	Thank you very much. Congressman Font Sándor, Fidesz!
u2020-12-01-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to this debate here as a layman for nearly two hours, because I would like to reflect with my full knowledge on the wine law, but I was a municipal representative for 16 years, when it was provided on behalf of our settlement, we provided the removal of local waste. Then it is now a system of more than a hundred settlements, which currently serves in my settlement and surroundings in Bács and Csongrád county. Then, of course, I have some level of information on the EU's expectations to individual Member States on what needs to be done to stop, reduce, reduce climate change, reduce emissions of CO2 gases and greenhouse gases, at all to protect our environment and at all to promote greening. To mention the greening, the Agricultural Ministry quietly, who did not notice it, quietly to those who noticed it, may have launched a flagrant nationalisation program in the spirit of the same concept, only that is done by the Agricultural Ministry with enough force. In fact, every born child will be planted with ten trees, so there will be a forest of ten hectares of children born in each county, which also strengthens green thinking. [[17.10]] Then, in this debate, I simply have to say that the keynote speeches of my old fellow Members, Gyula Molnár, László Varju, with whom we started the assembly a long time ago, have unfortunately been directed at the fact that they have no idea what this proposed law is to scold the government because it wants to do something centralization. That's what I had to tell you. Ready, down, Fidesz-dog. That's the essence of your speeches. Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik, has no idea, based on his speech, what this law is. I've never heard so many horse-zungs from the lead speaker. Anita Potocsány Kőrösi has already got the point better, it seems that at least at some point she was trying to get into what was going on and what the government is planning to do with this idea. So let me be clear, waste management has some basic ideas that everyone has. For example, it is the best waste that is not produced. Next thing you know, when it's done, let's do something about it. What's that? Then comes the rational farming, that we start to select, collect, recycle, and that should be the point of getting as little as possible into mixed depots and landfills. Each EU country, and perhaps others, Hungary also strives to achieve this logic with more or less success. However, it is clear from the figures made by the Secretary of State that we are on the path of improvement and success. It may be said that these percentages, which were 10-15 years ago in terms of the amount of garbage placed in the depot, have decreased to an appropriate level or to the level that we have heard. How this is enough or not, how we managed to introduce selective waste selection in Hungary at kitchen, household level, and then what to do with it can be argued about. You can argue whether it's enough or not, but the fact is, we've moved forward. Then it turned out in 2010-11 that there were companies in this market that Gyula Molnár referred to. No, it's far from the Neapolitan and Sicilian trash mafia, but some of them started fishing in the mixed mess. Then came the government's decision to make this whole system public, to try to clean up this environment, to the maximum extent the trustees can still be related to the private company, who carry out some of the trash transport operations, but the system should be public. Then the question is that it's okay, now we're trying to give the growing generation a way of life that as little waste as possible, we're trying to give a sense of life that it's not good to see garbage along the roads, we're organizing actions, but you don't be a garbage thrower anymore, and when someone throws it away, take your time to go out and pick it up in an action. 'Cause there's no story, somebody just has to pick it up. Now the administrations have the very serious task of MÁV, forestry farms, road operators to do so in their respective jurisdictions. There's no one else who would do that. The growing generation should no longer be a volunteer garbage disposal, but rather a protector of the environment. It's a process, no story, it can't be done from one moment to the next, but we're on this path. I understand the change in the 2016 environment, the emergence of kukaholding and all its negative experiences. Don't think we left this behind within the ruling party, the faction. Of course, we also saw that a two - year - old account would suddenly appear, and we did not understand why this had happened. That's not what we expected. Don't get me wrong. By the way, it's all settled now, everyone knows that. But the process from the moment we try to tear apart a huge dump and separate it, re-processing the elements that can still be used, at least to the level of processing, is clear. You say that this referral is outrageous, because it takes rights and wealth from the municipalities, and so on. But the system has proven that we have now come to the point of having a mind-forming, starting to separate the waste selectively by finding the resource, not the garbage. We are now trying to get this to a processing site, or to a place where it is sorted, so where there is a consistent mix of selectiveally collected waste. And then the huge question came: what do you do with it? When China banned the introduction of plastic from the European Union three years ago, the whole European Union went mad, all the countries of the Union. You know that very well. Erzsébet Schmuck was the only one who clearly knew the background of this law. I've put myself in your position, Congresswoman. There are many points of the law submitted to you in your demands, and yet you have to say that we do not support it. You've gone out of your way, and I congratulate you on taking it apart, because there are good elements of the law, and there are undesirables, but there are good elements that you will accept. After all, the circular, cyclical economic system you often demand is in it, and it is very difficult for me to speak against it, while I have been demanding it all along. I understand Bernadette Wind and Bernadette LMP, who proclaim itself green, are now appearing as the face of the Momentum, as I have heard, here in Parliament, opposition organizations proclaiming themselves as green come to be serious, but I think two people have read it seriously, it was Bernadett Wind and Erzsébet Schmuck. They understood that, oops, there's a problem here, what we thought and demanded, and now the government will do it. That's the real problem for you. All the rest that you're gonna have here again is NER riders and concentration, and then we're gonna choose who's gonna be the next winner, and that's all bullshit. In the meantime, they said that only HUF 70 billion was collected from the general public, and it costs HUF 120-130 billion. In Hungarian: 50 billion HUF annual deficit. Wait a minute. So this is the way to get rich for the consort? Let me get this straight. There's an extremely large minus here, and you're saying someone's gonna get rich on it. Something on the way to math doesn't work out yet. Of course the task has to be done. But let's turn back to see if he's in the right place with the local authorities. I'm telling you, it's been a process of development, and it's been 10 to 20 years since we've come to that point, and the question is, if we're doing this garbage transfer and sorting, we're gonna be able to take it apart in sorting plants, and we're gonna be able to do that. Because with this, the municipality won't be able to do anything, the 3,000 municipalities won't be able to do anything if they're not organized. Now, then, tell me what we're gonna do about this one, now, with resources and not waste. That's the answer, the submitted law on how someone should clean up at national level, so that we don't just deal with garbage shipments and the physical stuff that comes with the garbage truck or doesn't come, he put out the yellow and the green, and I don't know what kind of trash can, and he took it away, but if we can really get to this level, we can sort it out, and we have resources, so what do we do with this at national level? No one's ever dealt with that before. I'll give you a sad example. Very modern garbage supplier, sorting plants have their resources, in Hungarian sorted waste, but no one sells it to sell it to process it. Imagine, today you will have to continue to degrade this as a mixed waste because you cannot do what is done with the waste, which seems to be a resource. Because they're small. You did what you had to do, but there is no big system that would unite, so please, let's just figure out who is going to do with this selective waste, which is now a resource. The Union encourages the creation of a recycled product from its own material so that plastics, for example, become re-processed products of their own material. Erzsébet Schmuck, who knows these requirements, reads precisely that, yeah, we're going to go this way, apparently. Of course, I say, it is possible to criticise the way in which this is done, but let me mention that we have already seen in some countries the system of deposit and recovery proposed in the draft legislation for beverage packaging materials, but none of these countries has done so in such a coherent manner. In Croatia beer bottles and glass-based drink bottles are paid for. There's no glass thrown away, not a single piece, everyone's taking it back. In Sweden there is also a deposit fee for plastic PET bottles. [[17.20]] And now, let's think of what the presentation and the intention contains, that I'll buy the packaging anywhere, and this will include the so-called beer cans, so the metal liquor cans, this is a tremendous amount, and now 80 percent of the beers are sold in these, and not in the form of glass, to memorize, so, as deposit fees, they will be obliged to take them back at any collection point, so ABC stores and retail stores, regardless of where I bought them. And there's gonna be a point in every settlement where I can't do anything with my classic waste, with books and clothes, and maybe construction waste after a little remodeling. Because it's not enough to say not to litter, but you have to answer the government and the presentation that it's good, good, I don't want to litter, but what to do with these products in my apartment. And this proposal makes an attempt to respond to this, as was heard in the presentation from the secretary of state. And if we think about it this way, I dare say, of course, you will say all kinds of things: 2022, change of government and you will not have time to do so, and the rest, I know this, this is a political text, I was also oppositional, so I know about what communication is towards our own, but let's just think if we succeed. Let us say a little bit that yes, this will be feasible; that we do not see waste here and there in Hungary, that we have started with the wooding programme from the Ministry of Agriculture; that we have already made the law I hope they have observed how we are leading disposable plastics out of the service system; that we can now initiate the elimination of an illegal landfill system by taking pictures; that we have such service programmes. This should be appreciated, however, by the fact that such things have happened, and now we have a coherent government proposal. It's not easy, and you're saying that you're going to turn the system upside down. We could say that if you had to make such a big change, which is now justified, it would seem to be an extremely large law... you would perceive this as negative because of the opening up of many laws, but the fact is that if one of these laws is not opened to this, it will not be coherent. That's why we had to open up so many laws that you said it was a waste, and it shouldn't have been organised like this. So I would ask you to refer to the political messages in which you are brilliant in your own way, let us actually look at what Bernadette Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck have read from this system: that this can work. And let's assume that in 4-5 years' time, we'll all be here in Parliament, on and off with your opposition or pro-government side, and we'll come back to what we've created and who's right about this. I'm rooting for you to be here as much as I am. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-150	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, please.
u2020-12-01-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond quickly to the otherwise constructive speech by Mr Font Sándor. I am very pleased when, in such a constructive way, pro-government representatives are involved in a debate, and it is not for us to experience the fact that they have been read out and then a pre-finished closing, but we may be able to argue. That is why I am pleased that Congressman Nitrai has also spoken. Dear Congressman Font, About what you have said, or about the credibility of it now, not to you, but to the government's work, it is enough to look at the statistics on a bill that is currently under way: the amendment of the Mining Act is in progress. Based on KSH, environmental studies show that there has been a significant change in the composition of waste generated in our country over the past period. In 2004, the proportion of waste generated was 16%, which increased to 39 percent by 2017. And instead of doing something about this situation, the ten-year-old government, rather than dealing with this situation, a mining law that allows extraction, construction needs to be extracted, amends all kinds of legislation aimed at protecting precisely environmental values, instead of starting something out of the government position with a two-thirds mandate to do something about this situation and solving the use, recycling and use of these construction debris in order to meet construction needs. But I could give you a long list of examples. Perhaps Congressman Csaba Nagy confirms what I have to say: beside Pécs, on the border of the village of Pécs and Cserkút, for many years there has been a shockingly used tyre dump. I have already filed a complaint, consulted the authorities, sent letters to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, and the fact is, honourable Member, that there is nothing the authorities can do with it. On the one hand, the laws are wrong, and on the other hand, the importance of which talks about the recycling system should be resolved, and regulations and economic regulations should be put in place to make operators interested in recycling these waste. You've been in government for ten years, and these problems are piling up, and you haven't gotten to the solutions. After ten years, of course, the opposition can be criticised, but I think that self-criticism in this situation would be more important. Similarly, I also have a example in Pécs, and I myself am Pécs: not so long ago, construction workers planted construction debris near a wonderful natural environment, a protected area. Again, this suggests that, on the one hand, there is no capacity for official control, and that the sanctions in this regard are not strict enough. We are pleased that the tightening up of these is also on the agenda, and we welcome these, of course, but it seems that there is such a fundamental problem here that they do not solve the processing of the resulting waste, and they have actually started to talk about the importance of implementing the circular economy in the last few years, but they have done nothing to this effect in just ten years. They are talking now, okay, so in rhetoric, at least the intention of eliminating illegal landfills has appeared, but we do not see any results yet, so I would like to ask you for a little bit more self-criticism, honourable Member. Mr Nitrai also spoke briefly about environmental values. I would also like to ask you on these points, Madam Secretary, that this law is not only about what my fellow Members spoke most or the longest, but also about waste management, but also about amending the road transport law, amending the municipal law, and we see that there are very important system problems here, too, Mr Nyitrai, which is in close connection with the environmental problems that you have been talking about, honourable Member. Madam Secretary, yesterday morning was the hearing of Minister László Palkovics at the Committee meeting. Your ministry, if I remember correctly, has the slogan that we're going to do our job in the future. Compared to this, I see that with a government austerity policy, with changes driven by political motivation such as the Parliament is negotiating now, and basically with poor quality governance, you are reviving the future. So there is a gigantic Ministry of Innovation and Technology, and László Palkovics is responsible for very wide range of policy portfolios. We can see that, in the current situation, economic protection, economic policy and economic protection measures in the epidemiological situation, this ministry is responsible for the measures, but here is science policy, starting with higher education, almost everything that is related to sustainability, water management, transport policy, and a very, very long list. It turned out at the committee meeting yesterday, there was a question like this that the space program wasn't, the space program belongs to foreign affairs. Let's just say it makes sense in some way, space is an outer space, obviously under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But the point is that I tried to ask Minister Palkovics questions, I was glad to finally be able to do this in person, because I am writing to the Ministry, and I usually only get very, very low political slogans back, not talking about the Secretary of State, usually Tamás Schanda makes me happy that the name Gyurcsány is always included in these policy issues twice or three times, for some reason it is stuck, which in itself would not be a problem if there were a meaningful answer to the questions before or after. But if it is such a serious system problem and by cutting a hussar, you are basically getting into a very important public service system in the Ministry, then I would like to ask what is expected of other public services. There are a lot of amendments to the law. Here is the issue of drinking water and sanitation. It is perhaps also known by the pro-government representatives how closely this is related to environmental values. Without drainage, we cannot protect the water bases, and if the water bases are damaged, they cannot be repaired afterwards. So it causes irreparable damage that must obviously be avoided by all means. On the other hand, drinking water is obviously the most important public service, and not only in such a difficult situation, in such an epidemiological situation, the importance of this must be stressed. Yet, this service is practically on the verge of collapse, and apparently, there's nothing this gigantic ministry can do about it. The Prime Minister acknowledged a few months ago that a thousand billion-dollar scale was missing from the system. Compared to this, you come from all kinds of professional lines, not political, but from the direction of professional organisations, and you will be swept off the table and there will be no action. [[17 .30]] I have already submitted five or six proposals for the launch of the utility station, which would give the utility companies a small lifeline for fire-fighting purposes, so that they can stay on the surface and possibly spend a little bit more money on preventive maintenance, because here, again, they are living up to the future in terms of financial matters. This has been swept off the table again, some strange remodeling has been carried out, but this has not actually helped the industry, the utility tax has not been introduced, and there is also no resources for proper maintenance and replacement work. Madam Secretary! I have tried to ask you about this once before, and I will not give up access to information; not because I am terribly curious, but I would like to forward it to the stakeholders, to the municipalities, to professional organisations, to the water utility companies. We have already agreed, let us say, with Prime Minister, that the problem is a thousand billion-dollar scale. The Prime Minister said very enthusiastically that the European Union will provide a great source of development aid, so we will add a thousand billion of this amount, and since then the adventurous foreign policy has started again. But I asked Minister, from what source they will be able to replace this thousand billion-dollar scale in the system. I stress that this is not necessary to restore the Hungarian utility network from this amount, but, in addition to the vast amount of resources that we can plan for this purpose, this is all that is missing from the system. Here the Water Facility Association is talking about 1500 billion, 3000 billion forints is being said by the County City Association. This is a serious system problem, Madam Secretary, when will this be resolved? And how does the strategic approach and professionalism that you are saying very often prevail in solving such an important system problem? The second is the system of Community transport, which is also very closely linked to the sustainability issue. I also tried to question Minister Palkovics yesterday, Minister of State Schanda again today. In terms of public transport, the Parliament has just made a decision on the government's proposal that they have practically withdrawn from state funding in Hungarian: they have abandoned the municipalities, the cities, with this important public task, which is extremely dangerous in such a situation. Not long ago, the government took a measure, ordered the flights to be compressed, but we need resources to do so. So are you finally willing to face this problem with the Ministry, withdraw these restrictions and replace the funds to the municipalities? Here's an exciting question. In September last year, the Government took a decision calling on Minister Palkovic to draw up a proposal for a model of public funding for local public transport and to present this at the government meeting. I asked the Minister about this yesterday at his hearing, and he replied to me that I was wrong because he was tasked with public funding for inter-urban transport. Well, unfortunately, I didn't, by the way, send over to the honourable representative of the government that he didn't, specifically, have the task of developing a financing model for local public transport. So here's a little bit, I feel like the system's been compromised when the minister doesn't know what the government ordered him to do, and the deadline's long over, by the way. What can we expect from this? I would like a very clear answer from the Secretary of State. We are faced with such important system problems, which basically affect the everyday life of Hungarian people. You're making terribly serious strategies, putting very interesting, forward-looking plans on the table, but it's like you can't deal with everyday, everyday problems. What can we expect, what awaits these sectors, the most important public services, and now I do not want to mention the other problems, drinking water, public transport? When can they face this, and in what way will the resources be provided to carry out these tasks? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State that if proposals of this kind are tabled, such as those which the Parliament is discussing today, what kind of consultation will prevent it. So now, in what specific context, what organisations, how did they continue to negotiate, who continued to do so, and what was their experience? Perhaps you can look into, say, the minutes of these discussions or the summaries of them, what the various stakeholders have said about this issue. Thank you very much. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2020-12-01-152	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP.
u2020-12-01-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I didn't know that there would be such enthusiasm for a proper comment when Congressman Nitrai came in here. I do not know what my fellow Baptist was looking at, but he read the brochure that we had already heard at the beginning, and he did not listen to the whole debate that we had here. The real question, I think, is exactly what we have said clearly, is what I am saying to Mr Font: of course, there are good elements in this, there are things that are worth dealing with, but we see that the focus and purpose of the whole thing goes elsewhere. That's what we've been trying to show off, let's say, what if someone gets a whole market, gets a fortune, if they have a loss, they get paid by the state. I just need to say something small, a little sentence. And I wanted to say that I don't want to waste any more time here, that I understand that you were soldiers, and that green could be such a camouflage, so you can throw a green thing like that at him if you don't fight in Siberia, because you don't get anything with green, you need white, but that doesn't make the whole story green. You understand, I may have told you this, but I'll tell you one more time, it's not about what it looks like, it's about how it stinks, and it smells like it's coming through the camouflage. That's the real problem, and there's nothing to cover that up. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-154	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, in two minutes.
u2020-12-01-155	Thank you very much. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Nitrai and Mr Font. What Congressman Nitrai was talking about is nothing more than Fidesz' green painting policy. This nature conservation and climate protection action plan is like a kiss to the dead in terms of actual change and action. I do not dispute that these are not important elements, but they do not bring about any substantial change. I suggest a little study of the IPCC reports, and there is also a biodiversity agreement, and there is also a scientific advice, and they have a similar outcome. We need radical changes here. What is Fidesz talking about when he refuses to touch the institutional system? How many times have we told you that we need a Ministry of Environment, Sustainability and Climate Action? They've destroyed the authorities, they can't touch this. There's nothing more about your environmental policy than maximizing votes. It has been assessed that Hungarian people are becoming more environmentally conscious, and they cannot now say that climate change has always been and always will be, which has done stupid things in order. I'm sorry. So here, we should fundamentally change it. What I would like to say to Congressman Font is that, in addition to maximizing votes, this is about money. I told the lead speaker that there are a number of good elements of this bill, but the element of how they want to transform waste management, the way they want to give it to a consort, is nothing but money. They discovered that the waste money, because it's going to be input somewhere, into the economy, and there's these nice little items, that the concesor will not only come from the budget, but from the product fee and the glass return, and I don't know where else to get the money. You'll get quite different resources from the way you treated the municipalities. So don't think we're stupid, that we can't see through it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Fidesz doesn't have an environmental policy, that's what it's all about. Thank you.
u2020-12-01-156	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Nunkovich, Jobbik.
u2020-12-01-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to reply to my fellow Member, Mr Font, when he has come to this debate, he has come in or stormed in like a comet. If you speak up and say that I only said horse-zungs, please list what they were, and next time try to disprove them in response to my speech, it will be a little more believable. Now I'll try to answer your speech. We have also said that there would be good elements in this package of proposals, because it is indeed a package that could be taken over, and it would indeed be worth treating separately certain parts of it, because we can certainly support it. Well, we can't support the whole thing that goes out there. You're telling me to make it public property. Okay, well, let's make it public property, but don't make it public property by pulling in taxpayers' expenses and deficits, and then these companies that win concession rights, they're gonna have revenue and profits! Well, it doesn't work that way then, it's no longer a public asset, or at least not a well-functioning public asset. And he says he doesn't come out of math because there's a deficit, right, 50 billion about. Now, if there's a deficit of HUF 50 billion, then who's the idiot who's going to apply for this concession law? Well, it's in the proposal about the rights, the benefits to those who win these concession rights. Don't tell me they're gonna have to make up for a $50 billion loss here and do or do waste management for a good favor. [[17.40]] If you don't know what to do with the waste, don't say anything. So there's a system that works halfway, and there's bad points. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I will continue this part in my next speech. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-158	And then, Mr Font Sándor, because he had already applied for a two-minute speech.
u2020-12-01-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the first round of the speech, let me mention two topics, in which, on the one hand, they missed the fact that the operating company would be very far from the local resident, but I indicate that, as I have already mentioned, in my environment, more than 150 settlements are already collecting waste from a company, a local government-owned company, i.e. public property. Tibor Nunkovics here has some serious conceptual problems, and I see what public ownership is about. That's why I said you didn't read the law, and you don't understand what it is. I'll keep saying that. But I'd like to go back to the original idea. They are now quite close to the residents, because customer reception times are set in all settlements. Everyone knows that if you have a problem with garbage transportation, you don't have to go to the brain trust and the summit, but you have to go to the service office for a customer-receiving period. There are booking times in all settlements. So they've figured out how to keep in touch with the residents. One more, which is referred to here several times, is municipal property. Some people have einstands and I don't know what they said. Let us be clear: these very large investments, which have been carried out in the last ten to fifteen years, have been implemented with 100% EU funding. And in addition to being local governments because there is such a property, they put it in because they thought it was even better to work that way. There, it is clear that the accounting will be mandatory, and at a real market price, and indeed I dare say that it is even more fair to offer the Ministry to the municipalities, which has such a demonstrable asset element in it. But this asset element you're talking about, the sorting plants and the collection trucks and everything else, they were purchased with 100% EU money, and the municipalities received it with financial and technical credit as an asset element. These could be the ones that could be involved in the operation of the large system now. Loss of assets does not occur in the municipalities.
u2020-12-01-160	Honourable Members, Is anyone applying for a normal speech? [[There's no signal.]] 'Cause then there's a two-minute circle again. Congressman Nunkovich, Jobbik!
u2020-12-01-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then I'd like to pick up where I just left off. I'm out of time. So there is a semi-functioning system where there is nothing else to do but expand the scope of deposit fees and obviously look at companies where waste management does not work properly. But that doesn't mean that everything should be plowed and nationalized immediately. My colleague mentioned taking photos. It's a bit of a concern, though, I think, that the public passenger will go over there and take a picture of the plot. Because it says here that it's an abandoned plot, but what's an abandoned plot? I'm not sure it's an abandoned plot, it just looks like it. And he's taking pictures of someone in positions like that, or I don't know, maybe he's climbing off the gutter, or I don't know, and he's taking pictures of it and making it public or he's using it. So let's think about this a little bit. This authority, as described here, doesn't exist. And then the road is like this... At least send out a notice to people before we go, 'cause your property has to be photographed, because we've got a report that there's a situation like this on that property. But that's not what we're talking about in this draft either. So once again, my fellow Member, I am very pleased that you stormed in here. He says I didn't read the proposal, and you could read a 143-page legislative amendment package in a few minutes, and I'm very happy for you, and congratulations. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-01-162	Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2020-12-01-163	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In my two-minute comment, I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár. Gyula Molnár mentioned all kinds of colors, green and white, he said that we were throwing a green camouflage net before this bill. That is not so, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that while the opposition is talking about green affairs and the environment, the Government of Hungary will take decisions and take action in this matter. Gyula Molnár said that the green color is a military color, and it works, except in Siberia, where, right, there's a lot of snow and white camouflage. Dear fellow Member, I can tell you that you may have been snow blinded. I have also looked at what it is: intense eye inflammation caused by a large white surface or permanent reflection by strong natural or artificial light, accompanied by visual disturbance. Dear fellow Member, I have to say, you can't see green from white.
u2020-12-01-164	Then I suggest we finish this color dispute. Anybody else want to tell me? I don't speak in colors. [[There's no signal. Defiance.]] Luckily, no one came forward for further speeches. [[Defiance.]] The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask Secretary Anita Boros if she wants to respond. I'll be watching how many colors you mention, so please try to reflect. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your comments. As I said, the transition to a circular economy is our new goal, our new model. What we need to see is that there really is a highway in waste management, which modern states have already set foot on. What we need to see is that we're still on the side of the road, and we need to decide now that we're gonna get on this highway, or we're gonna miss it. In order to get on this model, we need a whole new set of rules; and, as has been said here, the primary question of this is to introduce a new waste management model with everyone's cooperation, to clean up our waste, to be good waste, to be good waste management, and to do so, the first step is what the Hungarian government has already started, thanks to the implementation of the climate and nature conservation action plan. For our project, that is the elimination of illegal waste. Of course, we also see that sometimes we fight windmills with those who dump illegal waste. It's undercover in their lives, they'll take it in the morning, take the trash from the kitchen to their cars, and then dump it from their cars along the highways or in the woods. We want it not to be, and we want to introduce deterrent sanctions. That is what this bill proposes. If I may, I would like to react very briefly. It has been said several times that there is no waste management authority. The draft provides for a full paragraph on the waste management authority's responsibilities, the division of powers between the minister and the authority; in paragraph 32 it mentions the tasks of the waste management authority. It has also been said that the redemption system, as such, is an unnecessary thing. We believe that this is not the case, and we asked the citizens, because the latest research at the University of Pannonia has demonstrated where 20,000 people expressed their opinion that 85 percent of the respondents supported the introduction of the redemption system, and 87 percent said that this system is actually something to be supported even if the deposit fee, the redemption fee, is incorporated into the price of the products. We thank Mrs Hajnalka Juhász very much for her speech, given that she alone mentioned the European waste reduction week. Despite the epidemic situation, twice as many people in Hungary came up with some waste reduction action as last year. We had 860 projects across the country last week, where citizens, organisations, educational institutions, nursery schools, kindergartens, businesses drew attention to projects and programmes that we could take small steps to reduce our waste. Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for drawing attention to recycling and recycling as the cornerstone of the new circular economy. Then I would like to thank Mr Font Sándor very much for giving a bit of attention to the speeches he had made. There's a little misunderstanding, we can see that. What you really need to see here is that we're not taking money from the municipalities. [[17.50]] Although I might add that it's the Mitzvah. and the law on national assets would give us the opportunity to do so, since there is a transfer of public service to the State. We didn't live with that. We did not live because we wanted the municipalities to be able to carry out their respective public tasks until the introduction of the concession system for the remaining two years, and indeed, the current waste management public task, if it were to be removed from their duties, would remain one of the public cleanliness tasks already mentioned. As Mr Gyula Molnár said, the adequacy of public areas should be entrusted to the municipalities. That's what we think, and that's why we've left public cleanliness. Why are we dealing with this now? We have not only been dealing with this issue now, but for many years now, but there are certainly some definitions on the basis of which this waste management regulatory process has now accelerated. On the one hand, we need to transpose the large package of directives that underpin the circular economy in 2020 and the targets will be updated by the European Union by 2020-25-30-35, so we need to be prepared for the implementation of the 25th. As I was saying, we're not withdrawing the municipal assets. The municipalities have the possibility to conclude exploitation contracts for the waste management assets available to them over the next two years. So we think that this will be worth it to the municipalities in the long term, and there are also a lot of instruments that are subject to a maintenance obligation. These assets will have to continue to be operated by the consort. We expect the concession procedure and the concession model to increase the quality of service. This, of course, includes the fact that it is expected that the concessor should establish a very effective system of customer reception for complaints, as has already been mentioned. In terms of industrial developments, this has been said several times, and waste management is very complex. Tens, I can also say, there are dozens of waste streams, and it is difficult to say that because, for example, when you think about plastics, within them, there are dozens of sub-dimensions in the plastic material stream, and, of course, the industry associated with such streams is extremely extensive and extremely complex. For this reason, we have spent the last six months listening to the proposals of interest representatives, industry players, workshops and conferences, and we have tried to integrate everything we felt was really supporting the transition to a circular economy. It has also been said by Mrs Schmuck, Mrs Erzsébet, that this is a bill that amends a lot of laws. That's true. This is a very complex issue, including a lot of sectoral legislation, and as Sándor Font reacted to this, they cannot be dismantled, otherwise the principle of coherentness would be broken down. The circular economic package was adopted by the European Union in 2015 and, since then, the EU Member States have been under increased pressure to transpose it. Some states have responded very quickly, and some have not responded at all, and it is obviously also an economic policy issue that we would like to join up on that motorway already mentioned. Thank you very much for supporting the introduction of the redemption system. We also believe that this will be a very forward-looking model that will put selective waste collection on a completely new footing. The drafting of the implementing regulations will begin once the legislative amendments are adopted. It has also been said that Hungarian people have become more environmentally conscious. Thank you very much for your appreciation, our work, it seems to have brought its fruit. The other thing I would like to point out is that our wallet deals with a lot of strategic issues. That's true, too. What we see is that our waste management strategy, drawn up per waste stream and to be presented soon to the government, will be much stricter and a strategy that reflects the principles of recycling and recycling. It is necessary to see that there is also a need to intervene, not only because of the European Union's determinations, and not only in the light of economic policy standards, but also because, therefore, we should not think or perhaps reach the wrong conclusions, if we compare earlier models with what we are planning to do now or even in the future, because the waste management sector, as our consumer products change, as our lives change, for example, we buy more phones, we buy more electronic products, we replace them more often, and accordingly, the composition and quality of the associated waste streams changes. The world is accelerating, the standard of living is increasing, and at the same time, as I said, our resources are falling. And to develop innovations in sustainability and green economy, a flexible waste management system is needed. If there is a new type of waste or a waste management task, we must have the best solution to adapt. We believe that this proposal is like this. Several times it has been said that the waste management authority and the consort may be the same. Among the tasks of waste management authorities, if they are to be grouped in addition to official tasks, a control, market surveillance quality assurance function may be grouped or separated in the first place. The consort is able to exercise part of the waste management activities strictly under the supervision of the Energy Authority, which is inherently being referred to by our new law. We thank Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea very much for this honour; she mentioned our law as the most modern, innovative law. That's what we think. And many of the women who represent it were also very important to think about it. Of course, we know that, and accordingly we have developed several incentive schemes, and next year we would like to introduce a two billion-dollar package for the implementation of incentive schemes or even more intensive support. We also thank you for supporting collection points and highlighting energy recovery as such. I would just like to make one clarification for Mrs Potocskané Kőrösi Anita's speech. We are not talking about a privatisation, because some of the waste management activities are passed through by the State. It is a question of allowing the exercise of a right, of an activity, and it is worth taking part in it, and anyone who undertakes to bring the targets will be invited to the contest. To do this, you will make the many investments needed and will not increase service prices. This is a very important clause from our point of view in our system. What might still be worth highlighting, and thank you very much for the summary by Mrs Bernadett Szél, which says that citizens want a system where waste is shipped in time, recycling will increase, and the service provider will provide a reliable, good service, which is the same as our goals. However, the Member may have had a bad draft because the national office of the circular economy is no longer included in the draft and the transfer of municipal property is not included in the draft. To the question of whether there is a risk of an increase in fees, Mr Tibor Bana, this was the issue that was fundamentally affected. As I said, we do not want to increase service charges in the concession system either, and a question has also been raised as to why a concession model is an unknown solution in Europe. I must say that this is not an unknown solution for public services in Europe. It has been operating in Estonia for 15 years, the concession system was introduced in Romania last year, it also operates in Spain, in Zurich, the Netherlands, Poland, so there is already an example. By the way, at an international conference in Estonia, which was public, so anyone could connect in the summer, by number 10-12 such conferences were organised, the Estonians said that this type of highly high-quality waste would result in this new model and that plastic would increase to 87 percent, metal to 97% and glass to 90 percent; so it was assessed as absolutely positive. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Zsolt Nyitrai for presenting the coherence between the climate and nature conservation action plan and my proposal. And our task is the future, we are living with it, we want to set our strategic goals on the road to legislation. I think we've put down countless strategies over the past few years. In fact, all of our sectors, which require strategic renewal or modernisation, have received their own strategy, and their rules at normative level have also been developed. [[18.00]] So in order to exploit synergies and increase Hungary's competitiveness, I would like to ask you with respect to support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-166	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws necessary to eliminate abuses in connection with the prison congestion indemnification procedure until closure. The government referral T/13954. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, author. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, On 1 January 2017, following the parliamentary adoption, the legal institution entitled "the "indemnification', the penalty, measures, certain coercive measures and the 2013 CCXL, entered into force on the day of the parliamentary adoption. by entering into law. This form of compensation reflected the practice developed by the European Court of Human Rights, which was a compensation scheme for the overcrowding of prison institutions. The Parliament, by introducing this procedure, sought to compensate for the violations of crammed accommodation conditions in the prisons. The concept of government in the revision of the regulation was that, while maintaining the legal institution for compensation, the new legislation must ensure that the system of proceedings can ensure a return on compensation for all outstanding enforceable debts of the sentenced person. The aim, therefore, was to increase the proportion of compensation to be paid to the sentenced person to the victims of crime, and the remainder to be used to offset other debts and payment obligations of the sentenced person. In order to achieve the above, the government has already taken a number of steps in several steps to deal with the situation immediately and to achieve the desired goals gradually. As a first step in the implementation, Parliament adopted, on the 25th of February 2020, the IVth of 2020 on the necessary measures to eliminate the abuse of prison congestion compensation. Law. The most important provision of the Act was that, in order to eliminate the abuse immediately, the payment was suspended with immediate effect in compensation cases. The suspension of payment of the amounts awarded as compensation was due to the fact that it was the only effective means of eliminating the abusive case-law in the context of compensation. It also amended the relevant provision of the Code of Correction for the purpose of eliminating abusive practices, requiring that the amount awarded as compensation may be paid to a security account managed by the penitentiary in the case of a prisoner and only to a payment account under the provisions of the sentenced or otherwise held title after his release. This made it possible to ensure that the amount awarded as compensation, which is compensation for the harm suffered by the person concerned, would actually and directly be transferred to the hands of the sentenced person or other person held captive. In view of the announcement of the emergency in spring and as a result of the increased legislative work, the deadline for suspension of payments initially set until 15 June has been amended to 31 December 2020. At the same time, however, the regulation changed in such a way as to allow for payment to victims and to child support holders, so since then, compensations granted have been made available to victims without delay to the amount due to them. As a further significant step, the Parliament adopted the 2020 LXX on the accelerated lawsuit for the reimbursement of damages and damages caused by the crime. a law specifically designed to create a much simpler means of enforcing claims for victims in the field of civil litigation. The purpose of this law was to enable victims to enforce their claims for damages or other civil rights in a much simpler, less burdensome procedure than before. Finally, it should be pointed out that, in addition to legislative action, the government has made significant progress towards the elimination of prison congestion by expanding prison spaces, which the National Command of Criminal Enforcement has also made during record time, by the end of August. Accordingly, 2,750 seats were created in the form of so-called container prisons, structurally lightweight structures. The transfer of prisoners in new complexes took place on the basis of an established schedule, with a decrease of 113 per cent in prisons to 96 per cent. Dear House, Following the above measures, which are of great importance in themselves, we have come to the bill now before this House, which is fulfilling the series of steps described above. I would like to note that the submission of the bill has been preceded by long preparatory work, in which the government has reviewed in detail the problems of the existing legislation, the difficulties in practice, all the points that can be achieved by improving and changing the legislative objectives, and the effectiveness of the existing legislation can be increased. The amendments contained in the bill can basically be divided into two broad circles: one of the major elements of the bill is the re-regulation of the prison congestion compensation procedure itself, and the other is the extension of the opportunities for victims to act. The concerns raised with regard to the institution system of prison congestion compensation therefore necessitated the development of a new regulation, which, in addition to providing an adequate opportunity to enforce victim claims, also ensures that the amount received as compensation, if the sentenced person has other obligations to satisfy, can serve as a basis for return in the event of voluntary non-compliance. The other part, which is at least as important in its importance, which, in practice, is expected by the legislator to make more changes, is to increase the opportunities for victims to act, to facilitate enforcement of claims, and to rethink procedural rules in a victim-centred way. In many cases, victims do not seek compensation for their damages in any way because they have no hope of paying back or of taking up a lengthy procedure involving litigation, so they consider the opening of proceedings and the bureaucratic burden involved unnecessary and energy-intensive. Extending the opportunities for victims to act is the government's primary policy objective, as the state must seize all possible means to support victims of crime. In the event that the legal environment to support victims of crime is conducive and regulation allows victims to find the easiest, most cost-free enforcement solutions, it will result in a significantly higher number of victim actions than the current situation and more damages and damages for victims which have been definitively awarded to them. This will also indirectly increase the amount that may be deducted from the amount of indemnification due to prison congestion. This regulatory consideration was, moreover, the forerunner of the 2020 LXX on the accelerated trial for compensation for the damage or harm caused by the crime mentioned above. the adoption of a law. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the re-regulation of the prison congestion indemnification procedure, I would like to highlight the following amendments. On the one hand, the new legislation extends the range of claims that can be directly deducted from the compensation in respect of all debts arising from private law relationships in respect of the defendant and which are being implemented. This means that whatever debt the sentenced person has, whether it is an unpaid loan or a debt to a public utility provider, should be deducted from the amount of compensation. [[18.10]] It should be pointed out that the amendment also opens up the possibility of satisfying the victim's claims caused by a criminal offence committed earlier by the sentenced person. The current legislation allowed for the deduction of the victim's claim only if it was related to the criminal offence for which the prison sentence or other freedom-limiting sanctions were imposed against the sentenced person and in view of which the indemnification was submitted by the sentenced person. The bill opens the way for victims of crimes committed earlier and already committed, or victims of crimes not punishable by imprisonment, to obtain their final and enforceable claims from compensation. A further substantial change in the bill is to make the amounts paid as compensation available to enforcement in order to recover debts arising in the exercise of the justice system or in the application of property-related disadvantages linked to the enforcement of procedural acts, i.e. the criminal costs incurred in criminal proceedings against the sentenced person or the confiscation of property imposed against the sentenced person, will be enforceable in the future from the compensation. In the same way, fines for judges or minors will be collected. Similarly, the amount of compensation paid will also be available for any other public debt to which the tax authority carries out its implementation, including in the case of tax debt. It is important to point out that, in view of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, these claims do not become directly deductible from compensation, but the regulation allows the tax authority to know when the amount of compensation will be paid to the sentenced debtor. It will then be possible to recover outstanding public debt on the basis of general and anyway applicable implementing rules. Another significant change in prison congestion is that the bill also makes the compensation procedure more effective. This will significantly reduce the burden on determining bodies, make public resource expenditure more rational, while making it possible for both eligible prisoners and victims or creditors to have access to their dues in a shorter period of time. Among the amendments of this nature, it should be pointed out that the bill rationalises the submission of compensation claims by setting time limits and introduces the possibility of a simplified assessment of applications, which is not carried out by the prison judge, but by the prison enforcement organisation in cases that do not require consideration. With this, the procedural time will be significantly reduced, since in cases where compensation is easy to assess, there is no consideration to be given to when assessing compensation, there will not be a need for an otherwise lengthy judicial procedure, but rather a short period of time to establish compensation. The bill also significantly simplifies the indemnification process by abolishing the compulsory submission of a complaint for accommodation as a prerequisite for lodging an application, unlike the legislation in force. This legal institution has actually burdened the prison organisation unnecessarily so far, as it has not resulted in an exemption from liability for compensation, and has led to interpretation problems in a number of cases. The further objective of the bill is to limit the provision of the amount actually paid to the sentenced person during his detention. This regulation has, on the one hand, an aspect in favour of the reintegration of prisoners, given that by limiting the use of the amount thus paid, it can be ensured that, if the sentenced person does not have any debts, or if he does not have them in detention, he should be at the disposal of the amount received as compensation when he is released, thereby contributing to a life of law-abiding and reintegrating into society. On the other hand, the bill also responds to the fact that, on the basis of experience in the application of the law, the amount received as compensation is currently considered to be so-called "protected money', which is treated separately by the prison on the account of the sentenced person for which enforcement cannot be requested. In this respect, the bill makes it clear that the amount received as compensation is not of such a protected nature and can be subject to enforcement after payment of the compensation. The advantage of this is that the amount paid as compensation is thus also available during detention as cover for possible additional claims on the sentenced person. Finally, it should be mentioned that the bill also provides the legal possibility for the sentenced person to offer the amount of compensation to the public and regulates this type of offer in the public interest as a criterion to be examined by the prison judge in the area of granting conditional leave. However, this may be the case for offences where there is no criminal offence. Dear House, I would also like to mention in detail the other direction of the bill, the facilitation of victim enforcement, as these innovations can be a major facilitation in the future and can contribute to a more supportive public regulatory environment. The new regulation will create significant facilitations in the areas of criminal procedure law, enforcement and victim support, thereby completing the policy efforts to support victims. The first thing I would like to highlight is a major change in the rules on criminal proceedings for victimisation. The victim's position in criminal proceedings is closely linked to the numerical expansion of victim claims resulting from the crime. It is therefore necessary to take every opportunity to ensure that legislation creates conditions to facilitate the situation of the victim, since only in addition can it be expected that the victim can contribute to the compensation of the damage. To this end, on the basis of the bill, the victim could in future accept the amount established by the court in relation to the crime as an amount of compensation. This solution could solve the conceptual model of criminal proceedings, which, like civil proceedings, requires the victim to indicate precisely what claim he is making against the defendant, while not having accurate knowledge of the amount of damage actually caused to him. In addition, in the future, the victim could accept the person convicted by the court as an debtor. Similarly to this solution, it could be arranged that the victim does not have to mark the defendant against whom he intends to enforce his civil rights claim prior to the determination of criminal liability. This is particularly difficult to expect during the investigation phase when the victim initiates proceedings against an unknown perpetrator, but in a significant part of the cases, the person or the procedural position of the defendant may change even in the course of legal proceedings. The bill also provides for the possibility for the defendant to accept the victim's claim in the form of a quasi-negotiable settlement. This is currently not regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. The point of this solution is that the defendant could also declare that, in the event of his or her liability, he or she accepts the claim of the victim. This would allow the court to make a final decision on the civil claim in the proceedings without actually examining and considering civil law claims in criminal proceedings and, where appropriate, avoiding evidence of this. This would also make it easy to manage cases where the victim would accept compensation of less than the actual damage caused to him. As a result, in the context of criminal proceedings, the victim's claim for damages may be assessed, which is currently not possible. Finally, a significant step forward is the amendment on the basis of which, in cases where the criminal court considers that the examination of the civil law claim presented by the victim in criminal proceedings would result in an unjustified delay in criminal proceedings due to the complexity of the matter, the difficulties in proving it and, in view of this, in order to provide for other legitimate means, such enforcement would automatically be transferred to the civil court without the assistance of the victim. This would significantly simplify the task of the victim, since it should not be him, in many cases with legal assistance, to ensure the opening of the civil suit, but it would be the task of the criminal court. On this basis, such a civil law claim would be decided by the civil court on the basis of the rules of the accelerated trial, on the basis of which the victim is subject to easier procedural rules. Dear House, In particular, the amendments made to the bill in order to abolish the advance payment by the victim of the natural person of the enforcement procedure are considered to be significant. At present, victims have the same financial burden as other enforcement applicants that they have to bear when initiating the enforcement procedure. [[18.20]] It should be noted that in the event of unsuccessful recovery, the applicant for enforcement must at present reimburse all costs to the executioner. To this end, the bill removes the obligation to advance costs when initiating the enforcement procedure in order to ensure that the victim's costs are not incurred during the enforcement procedure, i.e. the execution fees should not be paid in advance by the victim or the risk of bearing the costs of unsuccessful execution should not be borne by the victim. All this is capable of helping victims to act significantly more frequently and more actively than at present by contributing to their financial burden, even at the level of advance payments, in order to compensate for the harm caused to them by the crime. In general, these rules apply to all natural persons in the enforcement procedure to be initiated by victims, i.e. these facilitations would cover not only enforcement procedures related to prison congestion compensations. Finally, it is necessary to mention the amendment of the bill to support victims' claims and conditions for compensation in the framework of victim assistance. In the case of compensation, the bill abolishes the examination of the condition of necessity, which has so far required the examination and certification of a complex legal set of conditions, so that, in practice, compensation has been refused due to the failure of the necessary condition. The bill also abolishes the complex regulation which, on the basis of the extent of the material damage suffered, established the amount of compensation in a single-band system. The bill also significantly increases the deadline within which the victim can claim compensation after the crime has been committed, from three months up to one year. Finally, the claim procedure is simplified on several points in a customer-friendly manner, such as the possibility of proving the expected amount of the expenditure incurred before payment is made. Victim support services also experience in many cases that the client does not have specific documents, i.e. evidence, in the course of material support procedures. Therefore, the bill abolishes the legislative provision that has so far prohibited the acceptance of the client's statement by the courts. The above amendments may clearly increase the number of victims who may benefit from the partial reimbursement by the State of the damage suffered by the offence and make the procedure of the claim considerably simpler. Dear House, I believe that the bill described above is clearly a socially beneficial and fair regulatory step. In preparing the legislation, the emphasis was placed on bringing together a comprehensive, complex package of government measures, which contributes not to the adaptation of certain elements, but to the full and understanding handling of the problem, so as to solve the set of problems in relation to prison congestion and the resulting compensations once and for all, in line with the government's legal policy objectives and in line with social expectations. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. First, Congressman Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of Fidesz, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In February this year, the House discussed a draft law to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation. I think we all remember why this problem has come before the plenum: the general sense of justice of Hungarian citizens and society has been greatly violated by the ten billion-dollar industry, which has been known as prison business in recent years. Lawyers linked to the Soros network filed nearly 12,000 indemnification lawsuits against the Hungarian state, which forced the state to pay approximately HUF 9 billion in compensation to criminals who committed extremely serious crimes and sentenced to permanent imprisonment. Let's recall what those inmates and their lawyers were referring to the court for. Their legal basis was that detention conditions in our country are not worthy of man, because the sun is not shining enough in the window of the cell, and this is a violation of fundamental rights. I would like to point out that, with statistical data, prison conditions in Hungary have improved greatly, in recent years there has been more room and new prisons can be built continuously and as necessary. It was simply unacceptable for Hungarian people to receive 5-6 million forints of convicts such as the Italian lynchors, the Battonyan Monster receives 2 million forints, and the Burka family received 45 million forints due to their successful compensation lawsuit. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention that lawyers such as György Magyar, who was the judge of the election, or the Helsinki Committee and the lawyers who were partners of the SAO, landed in the pocket more than 60 percent of the amounts paid as compensation in the colours of the MSZP-Party speech. Lawyers linked to Soros organisations simply settled on prisoners and prisoners, and even in prisons they provided samples of earnings, which the convicts were able to turn directly to court. The prison business industry clearly realizes the abuse of law, damages the Hungarian state, destroys public trust in justice and violates people's sense of justice. Therefore, the government has done the right thing by deciding to put an end to this and restore the sense of justice of society. Dear House, Not so long ago, the Parliament adopted a proposal that set out its aim to strike a balance between compensation systems for victims of crime and for prisoners. This law was very forward-looking to call on the government to establish a new regulatory system for the relief of harm from crime and for the benefit of victims of crime. All this has been done: the adopted law is an excellent way to reduce the number of abuses of compensation lawsuits that seriously harm the sense of justice in society, and to ensure better protection of the rights and interests of victims, while also making effective proposals to remedy the prison congestion problem. Unfortunately, in order to restore the natural balance between these compensatory systems, there was no possibility to establish a new system of compensation for prison congestion due to the emergency declared in connection with the coronal virus epidemic and the associated national protection, and it was therefore justified to modify the deadlines previously laid down. The deadline for suspension of payments would have initially been 15 June 2020, but in view of the situation, the deadline was extended until 31 December 2020. The deadline laid down in the Act on immediate measures to eliminate the abuse of prison congestion compensation was extended by the National Assembly until 31 October 2020 in order to allow the victims and relatives of the criminal offences in which the indemnification procedures are concerned to enforce their legitimate claims as widely as possible, instead of 15 May of this year. Dear Parliament, In addition to drawing up historical history, please allow me to highlight some of the novels in the proposal before us. As a result of the amendment of the Penalty Act, the draft extends, by establishing the legal basis, the scope of claims that can be directly deducted from the compensation in respect of debts owed to the defendant and arising from all private legal relationships under enforcement. In this context, the victim's claims caused by a previous offence committed by the defendant will be satisfied and any private or legal person's claim in execution will also be able to be deducted from the amount of compensation for the sentenced person. However, under the new legislation, these claims will only be included in the last row in the order of satisfaction, i.e. the deduction of such claims will be possible only after child support and civil claims to the victim, as well as after the full payment of the compensation and the fee for damages. [[18.30]] The proposal allows the State tax and customs authorities to implement the amount already paid to the sentenced person as compensation, i.e. the amount paid as compensation to the sentenced person for all public debts or other debts owed to the State will be available. In order to increase victim claims, the bill simplifies the rules of procedure for the submission of civil claims by victims by amending the law on criminal proceedings, which is closely linked to the objective of achieving an accelerated trial. According to the bill, the rules for ensuring the substantive assessment of compensation are significantly simplified, which could lead to a much higher level of victimisation than the current one. As a result of the amendment, the victim could accept the amount established by the court in relation to the crime as an amount of compensation and at the same time designate the person convicted by the court as being liable. This will also make it more flexible and easier to manage the amount of civil rights needs. It is also a very forward-looking idea that, in cases where the criminal court considers that the examination of the civil law claim presented by the victim in criminal proceedings could lead to an unjustified delay in criminal proceedings due to the complexity of the matter, the difficulty of proving it, and, in view of this, provides for other legitimate means, such enforcement should automatically be transferred to the civil court without the assistance of the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, We are going through trying times because of the challenges posed by the corona virus epidemic, which all Hungarians have common affairs to overcome as soon as possible. We've already proven once that if we work together, we can do it. If we do this, we can do it again. In my view, the restoration of the sense of justice of society is equally common, since it is in the interest of the vast majority of citizens to have a general moral perception heard. I hope that, on the basis of what has been said, the left will also support the draft law that we are discussing. It should be stressed that in Hungary, sinners are not rewarded, but punished, while the focus of legal policy efforts is on victim protection and victim support. The tabled proposal will be supported by the Fidesz Group, as has been the case so far. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of Jobbik is Csaba Gyure. He's next. Here.
u2020-12-01-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have before us the law on which I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State a question as to why that law was not laid on the Parliament's table in 2016. It's the only problem I have. I didn't want to upset the past, but I must, because the Fidesz lead speaker in front of me told me how much the sense of justice of society needs to be restored, how much the government felt and how much it felt the need to restore this social injustice. Let's see who caused this social injustice. We can clearly say that it was Fidesz-KDNP that caused it, because they brought it, and you made this law, under which the institution of prison business was built in Hungary. This was absolutely clear, and no one in the Hungarian Parliament supported the bill that was brought here in 2016 except you, and we also told you about the problems that had been going on with this law all along. We've already formulated what you're coming with in four years' time, the same text we said in 2016 about this law. So the main problem here is that this law was exactly four years late, but if it had come here five years ago, it wouldn't have been too much of a problem. Let's look at what happened a little bit on time. On 10 March 2015, the European Court of Human Rights handed down a judgment, which revealed that Hungary had to change the compensation system, which is due to the overcrowding of prisons. On 9 December 2015, the Hungarian Government submitted an action plan to the Council of Europe, in which it undertook this change, agreed to end prison congestion and agreed that the compensation amounts would be paid in the future if the applicant met the legal requirements. This is what this law was adopted in 2016. This is T/12179. It was the bill that Dr. László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, was quoted at the time. There was a list of when this compensation was due: when the prison was overcrowded, when there was no separate toilet for the prisoner, the ventilation was inadequate, the lighting was inadequate, the heating was inadequate, there were insects. The Fidesz lead speaker before me said how outrageous it is to be compensated for this sort of thing. Well, you put this in the legislation, you included these points in the legislation, and you determined that there would be a minimum of HUF 1200 per day, a maximum of HUF 1600 in compensation for the inmates. Now, we've got some very serious criminals here. A criminal convicted of a serious criminal, a convict, a criminal convicted of a very serious crime against life, who, let's say, spent ten years in prison, has been able to judge an amount of indemnification of more than HUF 5 million, and that has indeed violated people's sense of justice. I really believe that was a bad decision. My fellow Member Gábor Staudt was the lead speaker on this topic in 2016. He literally said that an industry is built on this, to obtain such money for criminals, for prisoners in Hungary. He also pointed out that in the future compensation can only be avoided by building new prisons. This is the only way to achieve this. He also said that this would cause great indignation at the level of society as a whole. Another big criticism about the law: one big failure is that you have postponed the prison construction by five years, the construction, and this cost the taxpayers 9 billion forints. Another important criticism that Gábor Staudt, my fellow Member, said at the time, was that it was amazing and outrageous how you defended the amount of this compensation, so that it would remain in the pockets of the inmates, because you placed the prisoners in a privileged position, or the money received as compensation, because they could not be put under execution as much as other money as a wage income, but declared it a privileged fall, and it was not possible to compensate only the victim of the crime if he had validated it in the course of the procedure, or only for child support. Well, it's outrageous that no other debt could be deducted from this! This was given to the prisoner, and no other person in Hungary could have been in a privileged situation like these prisoners. Everyone else, the pensioner, even the smallest of his money, is being deducted from his bank loan, but it couldn't have been from the prisoners. Of course, this law now corrects it, but I don't understand why you're four years late. Indeed, these are the points that have caused society to be outraged. I think that not only did Jobbik see this coming, because none of the opposition parties voted in favour of this law. In particular, we voted against this because we said that this law was wrong, that the other opposition parties abstained, and that you were the only ones who said that it would be good. [[18.40]] And here's your big failure: why didn't they build the prisons? Suddenly, the prison-building fever in Hungary exploded, you have appointed 6-8 settlements or even more, and you have already negotiated with the mayors, and you have found the area where they will recover, and then enormous silence for four years. And in vain, this process began, what happened: you paid, paid, paid, paid. From what? With our money, the taxpayers' money. Well, I don't think that's the good farmer's care that you handled the state register, because, as I said, it cost the Hungarian taxpayers 9 billion forints. What about the business? We heard here in the speech of the previous lead speaker that the Soros network's law offices were on it. I'm just asking you, did the government decide to fund the Soros networks? Because if that money went there... And who invented this system? You found it, you built it, you let it work. The name of the Helsinki Committee has already been mentioned here. Then let me tell you that they were the first to say that an industry will be established in Hungary if the Hungarian government lets this happen. They first indicated in an opinion that this would certainly be an industry, and indeed the lawyers would benefit greatly from it. Well, compared to this, the government let this happen, let alone introduced it, said nothing to it for four years, and then, like a false upheaval, brought it to us at the beginning of this year, that it must be changed. On this issue, I believe that Jobbik, as a national conservative people's party, has kept a consistent attitude. We've always stressed that we're on the side of order, we're on the side of order. We have also said in the 2016 debate that it is not in the interests of the inmates that we need to defend here, but in the protection of the victims, and we should rather think to the government about broadening victim protection, making it easier for the victims to obtain compensation for the real damage. After all, there were lawsuits in order where we saw that the courts judged the victims up to tens of millions of forints, but they could not be implemented. He had no executable assets, no money for the convicts, and, yes, there was a won lawsuit, there was a final judgment, even bailiffs were involved in the case. It was everything but money. And we said that this should be changed in the first place, and not to further increase the rights of the prisoners, but to achieve a form of behaviour that eliminates the possibility of prison business, and even to pull this splinter out of my sight. And how much this business ran up: in 2013 it was only HUF 37 million, which the state paid as compensation, and it multiplied by twenty over four years; by 2017 it had already paid HUF 670 million. And how it continued to grow by 2018: we can talk about HUF 3.5 billion in just one year, thus reaching HUF 8.5 billion and HUF 9 billion in 2020. Well, that's what happens here as damage, which we can't say is the government's fault, by delaying the adoption of this legislation and by building the necessary prisons. Paul Völner said that this was an immediate response to the problem. I am saying that this law is not an immediate response to the problem, it is a four-year omission, a minimum three-and-a-half-year delay, and indeed an abusive practice, but you have given me the legal opportunity, you have given me the legal framework. And I can't ask you anything other than why, now, four years later, this decision was made, and why it was presented now. And I think it has come to light from what has been said so far, although I have greatly criticised the government for its omissions and for the bad legislation, obviously we will support this law because we are pursuing a consistent, pro-police policy, and we are always standing where the people's sense of justice is, that is, at the moment, we consider this legislation acceptable and forward-looking in any way. After all, Mr Secretary of State has also said what are the positives of this legislation, which I do not have time to repeat now, and I do not want to repeat, but there are indeed forward-looking aspects in this legislation in the area of victim protection; indeed, victim enforcement is speeding up with this legislation, and the indemnification process has been recast in its entirety. This re-regulation is much better than the previous one, and obviously the most important thing is that those spaces have been built. How interesting that it has now been built in a few months, even though the Covid situation has made this problem difficult, and you have built it in a few months. And it is really important that this procedure is speeding up and, most importantly, I do not want to go through the steps of the procedure right now, but what I consider most important is that the rules of implementation are significantly changed by you in this bill. It is no longer the case that only victim compensation and child support can be taken in the execution process, but practically everything else that can be deducted from other people's wages, who have not been convicted of any crime, can be deducted from the income of those who have been convicted of a crime, and are not now in a privileged position, and can be deducted from their wages or compensation amounts. Although I have a question for Mr. Secretary of State about this, this is the 19th of the new law. Paragraph 2 of the Act states that no contribution to the cost of keeping the sentenced person shall be deducted from the amount paid in the context of compensation. I still do not understand why the prisoner is placed in a privileged situation in this regard, and the cost of his health care cannot be deducted from this compensation amount. By the way, this law widens the amount of deductible amounts and their legal basis, but there are four exceptions here, for which it is not yet understandable why the sentenced person is in a privileged position. However, I would expect an answer from the Secretary of State in this regard, but overall, since the law is forward-looking and improves the situation so far, Jobbik therefore supports it. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-172	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Imre Vejkey. We can listen to him now. Congressman, please.
u2020-12-01-173	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13954 on the amendment of certain laws necessary to eliminate abuse of prison congestion compensation procedures Bill No. 1 is a complex substance containing amendments to several laws, which is CCXL of 2013 on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement procedures. It is linked to a review of the institution of an indemnification procedure in respect of the conditions of accommodation which are regulated by law in breach of fundamental rights. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the public opinion, it caused great outrage that two of the lynchmen of Lajos Szögi in Olaszliska received several million forints of compensation, so to speak, due to poor housing conditions. These two cases, however, are only the tip of the iceberg, because an additional, nearly 12 thousand such damages lawsuits were filed against the Hungarian State, and the Hungarian State paid more than HUF 8 billion in damages to the criminal convictions of the Hungarian State. The figures also show that the so-called prison business has built up a whole business. No wonder Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that the Hungarian state will no longer pay a penny to convicted criminals. [[18.50]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said in the exposé of the Secretary of State, Mr Pál Völner, and in the keynote speech of my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Nagy, which I agree with, so I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to a few things. In order to protect the rights and interests of victims of crime and to eliminate unacceptable further abuse of prison conditions, Parliament suspended the payment of funds in compensation proceedings with immediate effect from 7 March 2020. At the same time, the Parliament called on the Government to establish a new regulatory system for the benefit of victims of crime. In addition, in order to immediately eliminate the difficulties faced by victims, the legislator created the institution of the accelerated trial. Ladies and Gentlemen, The present bill establishes a new regulatory system which, on the one hand, excludes in itself the possibility of further abuse of the detention compensation scheme and, on the other hand, ensures the enforcement of the legitimate claims of victims and their relatives in a faster and more efficient way than ever. The new rule ensures that payments for prison congestion compensation are made, above all, to victims of crime. The main changes to the bill are as follows. The Bvtv. The scope of claims that can be directly deducted from the compensations will be extended to cover the claims of victims, as well as the claims of any private or legal person in implementation. The bill provides for the possibility for the National Tax and Customs Office to enforce enforcement of the amount already paid to the convicted criminal on the basis of compensation, on the grounds of the criminal's public debt or other debt to the State. At the same time, the above provisions will simplify and speed up the procedure for submitting the victim's civil claims. At the same time as the above provisions, the natural person will no longer have to pay a specific levy for the implementation of the final civil law claim granted. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of all this, the Christian Democrats support T/13954. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-01-174	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, notary of the National Assembly, is next with the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mr Secretary of State has very well summarized the content of the proposal, holding an expo of about 20 minutes, it is a pity to repeat that. This package contains very clear, forward-looking points and suggestions. Then, of course, the lead speaker of the two pro-government factions made political statements, and the key word was: prison business. In this connection, there were serious debates here in public life just before the outbreak of the corona virus, and, as has been said here, we obviously discussed this topic in the Parliament in spring as well. But it was not only then that the Parliament spoke, not only that the Parliament debated this issue, but, as my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said, much earlier. And when they talk about prison business and point out elsewhere, it is worth talking about 2016, because in 2016, only the governing parties, Fidesz and KDNP supported the law on the basis of which this huge, multibillion-dollar sum had to be paid to the Hungarian state, what my fellow Member Vejkey said here. This is largely linked to this period. This period may also be linked to the extraordinary increase in these amounts. I think it is right in this debate to quote from the then keynote speech of the MSZP, the professional position of the MSZP and expert opinions. This is how it begins:, It is against the question of compensation for unlawful placement. The definition contained in the bill is strange. In fact, compensation means compensation for damage caused by a lawful nature. However, in principle, the prisoner receives compensation for violations of his rights, which can therefore be regarded as compensation. The author should decide that crowded, human dignity-infringement placements are lawful, but compensation is due, or is illegal, for which compensation is to be paid. Moreover, the proposal seems to want to introduce a form of flat-rate compensation. The amount of this is hardly fair when a person is actually held in inhumane conditions. However, if most of the prisoners prefer to allocate the amount of compensation because of circumstances that do not strike enough levels, but which are average in Hungarian prison conditions, it may pay the prisoners surprising amounts after a few years of detention. This can in an understandable way trigger a conflict in society, while it does nothing to improve the detention conditions of prisoners. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Hungarian Socialist Party, as well as several opposition parties during this period, has drawn attention to what kind of unfair situation in society will be created by the legislation that you have adopted, which has been governing the specific issue for more than four years. The basic statement is, of course, that we need prison conditions in Hungary so that we do not have to pay large sums of money to offenders, and I can definitely state this on behalf of the faction, and I think that every citizen with a good feeling agrees. However, you have stopped a large-scale prison-building program that has been announced. About the county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, a Bv institution with hundreds of seats was discussed in Ózd at the time. This thing stopped for four to five years, it didn't come to light, and when it did happen in society, the events and large amounts of indemnification that we're talking about started politics in this case. Indeed, even during the coronal virus epidemic, it can be seen that even here, with the creation of new wings and the expansion of space, they have actually created the situation, we hope, in fact, that there is a way that the utilisation will be reduced to less than 100 per cent, in this sense the legal basis for these payments should not be allowed to go away. They did this late and wasted at least four or five years. However, I would also like to state firmly that the MSZP is on the side of the victims, it is on the side of the victims, it is on the side of the victims, it is on the side of Hungarian citizens and people who have suffered injury. So while we are talking about this issue, it is indeed necessary to work to ensure that their compensation and compensation are as quickly and as effective as possible, because we see a number of situations in which these amounts cannot and must be changed on offenders. Once again, I can tell you that if this legislation was not adopted in 2016 in the form that it was adopted, then we probably do not have to talk about such social outrage cases, and we do not have to pay so many billion forints to the Hungarian state. However, they did not listen to the opposition, they did not listen to the representatives of the MSZP expressing their professional position, and this was certainly a culpable attitude, I think. Today is December 1, 2020 when we are discussing this legislation, and it has been painfully past five years since they could have done anything to resolve the matter. [[19.00]] Once again, in summary, the MSZP will support any proposal here in the Parliament that will support the situation, even if late, but settles it, because the MSZP is definitely on the side of the victims. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-01-176	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, notary of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of DK. Here.
u2020-12-01-177	Thank you very much. Dear House, The truth is that over the past few months, I have been very interested and somewhat sympathetic in what amazing efforts have been made by the Ministry of Justice and by my excellent lawyers, especially from the pro-government side, to keep up with a Prime Minister's bluff. In January, when we thought we were going to have a much calmer year, Prime Minister thought it was a good idea to spend this year, alongside others, in a mood against lawyers and lawyers, thinking that lawyers could become enemies; especially lawyers who dared to represent their clients even in lawsuits against the government. He thought prison compensation was a good place to go. I think that's perfectly understandable, because there is indeed an unblessed situation here. This is an unblessed situation, of course, and my fellow Members have said so, so I do not want to analyze and stick to it for a long time, not because of the lawyers, but because of the government and the government side. On the one hand, in 2016 an otherwise justified legislation was not duly taken into account at the time, the correct brakes were not installed and the means that would have allowed, for example, the protection of victims to take place even further. On the other hand, the promises, ideas, and commitments they made at that time regarding the construction of prison spaces were not respected. I wouldn't go into this story, I think we're all tired of talking about how many government decisions there were, how they didn't happen, how prisons weren't built in otherwise negotiated and discussed places. I am a little less enthusiastic about the fact that they are now being built, because some of them have been built in places and in a form that does not provide adequate safe conditions for guarding and does not provide adequate living and working conditions for prison staff. Therefore, these may not be a good solution in the long term. But don't be right, I hope that container prisons and similar ideas will work, and yet it turns out that permanent conditions can be created in which the detention of prisoners can be carried out professionally and in accordance with the regulations. Because it should be clear: according to your 2016 legislation, this kind of compensation is due to someone who cannot be granted the conditions for the execution of the sentence, which you have laid down in a ministerial decree. So they do not comply with the requirements they themselves have, and the consequence of that is that there is a right to compensation. For the first time, a rather absurd law was passed, because it was urgent that they flash something politically, in which the government initiated the Parliament to ask the government to do something. Instead of doing it, they asked the National Assembly to do it. And then it turned out that they couldn't do it, for reasons to be appreciated, I might add, because the tasks related to the corona virus epidemic were handled by everyone, obviously the Ministry of Justice. Then they set another deadline, and they didn't do it either, but now they've filed this bill. I wouldn't hold back that there would be something more important anyway, let's settle this thing, let's finally close it, let's say, as a positive thing, that while they were dealing with this, at least they weren't tampering with the Fundamental Law. There's less trouble in finding a good professional solution. I have also said that the solution that the law offers can be agreed with many elements of it. It can be understood that these amounts can be used primarily to meet the needs of victims and the harm caused by the crime. It can also be accepted, although it is a little absurd for the state to transfer the compensation for its own damages into its own pocket, in exchange for, say, tax debts. But you don't have to raise tax debts. Otherwise, it is appropriate and eligible that taxpayers' damages be recovered, because, if a person accumulates a tax debt, he is causing harm to the State and to the taxpayer through the State. So this can also be supported. Rules to simplify the enforcement of claims of victims during the procedure can be supported or largely supported. However, there are doubts that the shortcuts that you are regulating will not create any new opportunities to open up, by the way, a loophole where the state will have to end up. But I must add that if that is the intention, we can support it, because in the compensation of the victims, the state has a role and a role to play. We also believe that this is morally acceptable, because in a sense the state has a responsibility to prevent crime, in any case towards the victims. So we can accept that the state should be more sustained here than it has been before. There are some doubts as to whether the precise legal rules that were established there have been sufficiently worked out. We didn't see it this time, either, that there was a proper consultation with the judiciary or with the bar. This may have happened, and I'm sure the Secretary of State will rest assured. So, in practical implementation, it would be good to avoid problems such as those caused by, say, the new civil procedural law, when you had to bring it back later, because it turns out that some of the procedural rules are not valid. But with the intention, we're basically in agreement. We approve of the fact that the protection of victims is stronger and we approve of the fact that the victim's claims can be enforced in a relatively simple and easy way. I can also say that in this matter, the moral sense of justice tells us all that the enforcement of victims' rights is, in a sense, a priority. This must be ensured in time and in legal terms with appropriate guarantee rules. We therefore consider this to be eligible and acceptable in any case. However, let us say two things quietly. On the one hand, a significant proportion of the prison damages so far have also gone to the victims. This is where you mention several cases, in most of these cases, the victims received compensation from here and here alone. Everyone would have been better off if this had not been the case, but the prison conditions were in line with the otherwise not-so-high standards, because here we should not be thinking of luxury conditions, but rather the very minimum conditions that you have laid down in the legislation, so that everyone would have been better off if the state had been able to meet these standards and provided for the compensation of the victims, where this is justified, even through state resources. On the other hand, this legislation does not put an end to prison compensation, as this option remains. Otherwise, this is probably not legally possible. There is only one thing that ends the prison compensation, and we said that in January, too, is that prison conditions, this not very high, but acceptable standard, meet expectations. I ask you to solve the problem on this side in particular, and, of course, we are pleased with any measures, once again, that will make it easier for the victims to be compensated. As for the political thrashing, what I can tell you is that it would have been more elegant if they had said that we had brought a law in 2016, it did not bring the result that we expected, so we come to Parliament, ask for an amendment, find a good professional... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Apologize!]] To apologize to the government, I don't expect that, I don't have unrealistic expectations either. So let's find a good solution to this, and I think it would have been a fairer, more politically correct procedure. Thank you very much. [[19.10]]
u2020-12-01-178	Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, please.
u2020-12-01-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It was interesting that in the debate on the previous preventive bill, Mr Font Sándor stood up and said that we are debating a bill now, we trust that in four years' time we will all be sitting here, each of us in the right position as a party of government, opposition, and then we can look back on whether the bill was actually good or not, in four years' time, from the perspective of four years we can withdraw the balance of what the effect was. This is exactly what happened: in 2016, you brought in a law, and László Trócsányi submitted it, and the effects of it are well known. By the way, I think that Secretary of State Völner held a very fair exposé, presented the bill in detail, and I did not discover any party politics in it. Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of Fidesz, has already deviated from this, and if we refer back to the late debate last night, Congressman Vejkey said that Mr Csaba Nagy was living here as a means of creating the mood, but this was very wrong here, so I am very pleased that my fellow Members have said that this is precisely the situation that Mr Csaba Nagy described on behalf of Fidesz with the Soros networks and other things. By the way, Mr Csaba Nagy was also relatively modest compared to himself, and I only heard Soros' name twice in his speech as a speaker. But in 2016, a large-scale prison-building strategy was announced, and then nothing came of it, and in parallel in 2016, as I mentioned earlier, László Trócsányi submitted this bill, which gave prisoners the opportunity to bring damages lawsuits in qualified cases. The bill included details of this, the amounts, daily allowances, etc., and the others, and voted in favour of this, among other things, I would like to mention only a few examples of this proposal: Mihály Balla, Zoltán Balog, István Bold, Károly Kontra, Lajos Kósa, Gábor Kubatov, Roland Mengyi, Szilárd Németh, Tibor Pogácsás, Antal Rogán, György Simonka, Bence Tuzson, and Pál Völner. So I think that it was the right attitude, at least at this time in the expo, which was represented by Congressman Pál Völner. Gergely Arató referred back to the debate in January, where he was still basically full of political upheavals. But overall, I can say that this is indeed a situation that you have created and which Csaba Nagy tried to interpret in such a way that this is also some kind of opposition plot and the assassination of the Soros networks against Hungarian society. This is definitely a government decision and can be derived from the legal environment voted by the pro-government factions. The problem here was, in principle, that there was no prison construction, that there was no provision for prison conditions, and that was an opportunity for what had happened here in the past. The promises made at the time, how many prisons and how they were going to build, were very interesting and sound. Viktor Orbán promised to build eight prisons in 2017, in 2017 Sándor Pintér talked about only five prisons, and they didn't turn into anything. Besides my residence in Pécs, Komló was promised a prison, a prison for 500 people, a very poor, economically difficult area, and that 250 people would be employed by this institution. Not long ago, I asked the Minister of Interior a written question about what was going on, and the Minister of Interior couldn't really give me an answer to get something out of this imprisoning in hops. I don't know if the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice has anything to say about this, but I may still have to bomb the Ministry of Interior. What my fellow Members have already said, I will not repeat it, it is completely unnecessary, the measures to meet the needs of victims as soon as possible, to deduct them from these compensation amounts, to satisfy public debts. These other technical amendments must or may or may also impose time limits on the submission of claims or the simplification of the various procedures, I think they are forward-looking, positive, absolutely eligible proposals, and I agree with Mr Gyüre. But the fact is that the problem itself must be addressed, it must be created, both in terms of capacity, quality and other circumstances, so that the problem can be dealt with, and this is also very important in such a way that it is clearly a fundamental condition for reintegration into society that there should be prison conditions that the best possible chance of integrating the perpetrators into society. Indeed, the most important thing is the protection of victims, as my fellow Members have said, and that the legitimate needs and expectations of victims can indeed be met as soon as possible. So overall, we can say that we can say that this is a confession, but let us be generous, the important thing is that the problems can be solved as far as possible, and in this respect we too say that this is a forward-looking proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-01-180	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Other speeches will follow. Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz!
u2020-12-01-181	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This current situation is a typical example of a regulation that has previously been put in place that means good, but the practice has shown that it has gone completely wrong and has given rise to serious abuses, and that the receptive have taken advantage of it, and that it has been used in an operational manner. Let's call it prison business, a multi-billion-dollar industry. Dear Parliament, It can be said that the prison congestion compensation system in this form is inadequate; it is inadequate, unfair, because in practice, compensation has not helped to remedy the harms of victims and their relatives. In order to protect the rights and interests of victims of crime and to eliminate unacceptable further abuse of prison conditions, the Hungarian Parliament suspended the payment of the funds granted in compensation proceedings with immediate effect from 7 March 2020 and called on the Government of Hungary to develop a new regulatory system to mitigate the harm caused by crime and to enforce the interests of victims of crime. That is what lies before us now, fellow Members. The new proposal ensures that prison congestion payments are paid to victims of crime. I would like to send a message to my fellow Members on the left that this government is always ready to correct, to strive to the right, if something turns out in practice that it does not work well or is being abused. Ladies and gentlemen, This law will provide justice, support your acceptance, end the prison business together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-182	Congressman Csaba Nagy again, please.
u2020-12-01-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, in today's political debate, I definitely need to reflect on a few comments, because I do not want to leave today without responding to certain things. When we look at what the Hungarian government inherited from, say, the previous left-wing governments in 2010, we see that we have inherited prison conditions that, according to the leading judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, do not comply with European standards. I think that this was one of the most important decisions of the Court of Human Rights in Hungary in Europe, and I think that we should have dealt with and dealt with a number of other, much more important issues, but this judgment was delivered in 2015, which the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian government, had to make a law. We are talking about how and how this prison business is linked, which has evolved in the meantime, to left-wing politicians, the political forces that have now joined forces. You look at these documents, and then you see that about György Magyar, who is launched by the MSZP and the Dialogue in an election to gain people's trust as a candidate, it turns out that he makes serious millions through prison business. And if you look at the parliamentary documents, then you see that a left-wing politician, who is still Regent, who, if I remember correctly, is in politics right now in the dialogue, is presenting an amendment to the trial of the law to raise the amount of 1200 HUF per day for damages by 2000, the 1600 HUF forints and 3000 forints per day. [[19.20]] The question arises: did left-wing politicians already know this in advance, then they were prepared to flush the state with as much money as possible? By the way, Szabó Timea was the congresswoman who submitted a proposal: from 1200 HUF to 2000 HUF, from 1600 HUF to 3000 HUF, Parliament should raise these compensation amounts. I think, my honourable fellow Member, that the left is caught. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-184	Congressman László Varga, MSZP!
u2020-12-01-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, you're not going to be able to push this around the other side of the square, fellow Members of the Fideszes-KDNP. It is very clear that this is because of the legislation adopted in 2016. I think that my fellow Member Zsolt Nyitrai started his speech well, and by the way, this kind of a slightly more self-critical tone is okay that they meant well and failed. As I understand it, he tried to approach this issue in a tone and mood, at least at the beginning. So you should at least acknowledge that, instead you're obviously revealed, you're talking about all sorts of things, and you're constantly living with this word business. If the prison-building program had then been implemented according to the way it was originally scheduled... and once again, I would say that the government has discussed with countless rural cities where a prison-execution facility will be set up, how it will be set up. To address another subject, but only briefly: if, by the way, I were to pay properly those who work in prison, we might be talking about other conditions in prison. So once again, that programme should not have been stopped, and it is not too late to rush here in such a year, which is already busy, and, of course, it should not have been adopted in that form. Once again, the MSZP is on the side of the victims and will accept any legislative amendments that will help the victims and, by the way, solve the problem, the problem caused by your delay in this regard. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-01-186	Thank you very much. He asked for a two-minute speech by Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik. Here.
u2020-12-01-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Zsolt Nyitrai, my fellow Member, said that with previous legislation, the government meant well, but did not see the consequences. I'm just wondering, because everyone but you has seen the consequences. My fellow Member Gábor Staudt said in 2016 that an industry is built on this to raise such money for criminals, but other organisations have also pointed out that this industry will be built on it. On the other hand, you didn't see him? You just didn't see what injustice, what maladministration, what outrage it would cause in society if you gave the prisoners this amount of compensation? I think everyone saw this, and I don't even understand why you've done such a thing, and why you've let this happen for so many years, to mature in society, and now there's an explosion of outrage in society. And they say it's Soros law firms. Well, why don't you talk about who made the most of this money, who made 800 million forints of that money? They never mention who made the most of this money. Let's talk about who got the most. But the most important thing is not who got it, but who made it possible for this business to develop, and that is clear: Fidesz-KDNP, the Orbán government, made it possible and it is a pity to argue about it. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-188	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Völner if he'd like to reflect. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-12-01-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On the one hand, thank you all for your support for having indicated that you wish to vote on the draft before this House, but several points have been raised here on the history. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Csaba Nagy, for recalling that there were prisons before 2010 and that they were in no better condition than this, so this is not the government, in fact, that has created this situation, that we have to face this issue. I also thank you for the fact that, in the course of the 2016 debate, there was indeed a proposal for an amendment to the opposition, which was actually about doubling the flat-rate fee for these compensation amounts. Csaba Gyüre also mentioned that the legislation was not good. I do not recall any better proposals which, say, would have included amendments on your part corresponding to this draft, would have foreseen the future, and would have been able to close these loopholes in such a way as we are trying to do with this plan. The opportunity was open. I remember that Jobbik did not want to pay any compensation at all, which would have been completely contrary to the international environment, because there were thousands of cases accumulated in the Strasbourg court, which was waiting for the fact that if we had not decided on this issue, flat-rate damages of at least EUR 10 000 would have been granted, which would have had a financial impact of three to four times the current one. So I don't think you could have expected the government to take that kind of risk to live with it. The other is how this situation developed. We have seen ourselves talking about stealth legislation today, either on the basis of the Union or international forums, thinking about the migration package that we did not accept, and how outraged it was that this was also based on the fact that there was an international recommendation that the Strasbourg court then started to apply as a norm, and pushing the states around with the Union to bring about the kind of internal regulation that promotes this kind of financial benefit for the convicts. There was a specific question as to why detention costs cannot be suspended. If you look at the judicial practice in Strasbourg, this is totally unacceptable, if such regulation were to be made, then everyone would ignore it and go directly to Strasbourg, as under the previous legislation, and this would pose the risk that the State could, so to speak, liquidate the amounts of compensation that should be established under the legislation. I hope I've been able to give you the right answer. I would like to quote some data: in 2016, say Slovenia stood at 114 percent, France was at almost 114 percent, Portugal was above 112 percent, Cyprus was at 112 percent, Belgium, the United Kingdom was at 111 percent, Italy was at 108 percent. Technically, despite the creation of this kind of internal regulation, it has not been blown up by such a business as ours, even though they had their affairs in Strasbourg before it. It can also be seen that, in this whole Strasbourg story, the Helsinki Commission is a daily partner at the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee, so even now, when we have suspended payments, the sharpest objection was that there is no reference to a lawyer's deposit, where money would be taken on a completely untraceable and irrecoverable journey. I could also say that Dániel Karsai is a lawyer who is bombing the Constitutional Court with a similar submission, who, we know very well, is in daily contact with these networks and brings them a lot of cases. So to say there's no connection... We can also see that the Helsinki Commission always has its own proposal: release the prisoners from prison, and then there is no prison congestion. We remember, during the epidemic, the epidemiology measure was an internal suggestion to let them out so that we wouldn't expose them to the epidemic in prisons, as if the outside world were safer for those outside. In part, I gave the answer to Congressman Gergely Arató. The fact that very significant payments were made here on the victim's side is precisely that, in accordance with the original intention, the original regulation ensured that the victims could be paid for child support, so these amounts could be separated, but it turned out that 10 percent of the amount paid was barely higher. So I would just like to enlighten the Member, although he is not here, that it would have been good if he had done the way he said it, only then we might not have to be here today and debate about it. Of course, during the summer, during a three-month period, all the organisations concerned were conducted by staff from the Ministry. [[19.30]] Therefore, both the enforcement side and the prison institutions, courts, who should be involved in this in the future, the discussions took place there, there are the technical, IT and other interfaces that are needed. But, of course, I say that if the legislation has to be adapted to practice, then we may have to come in the same way next year and adjust it a little more to make the system work even better. That's about all I wanted to say, Mr President, thank you for your patience. I ask everyone to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For the sake of the accuracy of the record, I note that Congressman Varga, as a notary of the Parliament, took up the bench from his seat, so here he is. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I was thinking of Mr. Harvester, sorry.]] Congressman Harvester's not here. He's a notary of the Parliament, but he doesn't sit on the pulpit. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal on vineyard and winery until closure. The government referral T/13955. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Viticulture winery is a success sector of Hungarian agriculture, the development of which can be an example for everyone. Hungary is a traditional wine-growing country, where wine-growing and wine-growing are national issues. I've always been a bit like football, a lot of people know how to do it, even though it's an extremely serious profession, and that's something to add. The significance of Hungarian wine goes far beyond itself, it is an identity-forming factor of Hungarian agriculture and Hungarians, and it is also an important power to create and create country image. The primary objective of this proposal is to increase the efficiency of our wine sector and to simplify the sector administration. The Parliament's last law on wine at the time of our accession to the European Union. In the 17 years since then, the world has changed greatly, and we are going through several reforms of the common agricultural policy and, in particular, a comprehensive reform of the EU wine market regime. Our lives are speeding up, our affairs are moving into digital space. These processes do not avoid the wine sector, and this has led to the need for a complete revision of the administration system of the sector. The most important foundations of these new rules are set out in the draft new wine law. What are these basics? How did we develop them? Very simply: we asked the profession, as in other laws, which we have reported countless times in the last few weeks. Based on our preliminary surveys, our discussions and the study of good practices in some wine regions or other wine-growing countries and the opinions of professional organisations, we have established a legal framework based on common sense, the consistent application of which will help to reduce the administrative burden on our winemakers and winemakers to a fraction. We have created a system where the administration is fast, where a data should be provided only once and which encourages the provision of real data because it takes into account the biological and professional characteristics that determine the functioning of the sector. Our aim is therefore to allow winemakers to focus on the profession and the development of markets rather than paperwork. The new wine legislation gives time to do so, and the subsidies provided by the Agricultural Ministry provide financial assistance. In recent years, Hungarian winemakers have done a great deal individually for the success of Hungarian wine, but the key to moving forward is to be able to act as a community to protect our common values. The new wine law offers us substantial help in this. The names of our valuable wine-growing places are an important prerequisite for the operation of our geographical indications as Community brands, so that they have a real right holder and management organisation. To this end, the bill also gives producer communities new rights to manage the protected geographical indication, in addition to keeping the previous ones. In conclusion, with the new wine law, the administrative burden is reduced, administration is accelerated, the possibilities of producer communities are increased. Dear House, Dear Parliament, As has been said, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill by their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-01-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, Congressman Sándor Font, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is an iconic law, as the Secretary of State has mentioned. In 2004, we named this law; here are some of us who participated in its debate. The debate started in December 2003 and ended in spring 2004 when we adopted it. And in fact, we adopted a basic law of the profession, which was then amended only in 2009, because of the change in EU rules. A truly major change took place in 2012. And perhaps this is the time when I refused to include a motion as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, because it was not agreed with all members of the professional representation at that time. After a several-month professional representative consultation and consultation with the councils of the mountain village, the current live wine law was established. And since 2012, we have kept the practice that there is no substantive change to the wine law in which the top representatives of professional organisations would not be involved by consultation, especially the National Council of Mountains, and non-governmental organisations with national coverage. This was the case now, as the Secretary of State referred to, he was out for nearly six months, and local members of the National Council of the Mountains, the mountain villages, what we are about to do, why we think that the basic wine law of 2004 should be amended. There have been several reasons in this regard. Let me note that, on the one hand, the world of electronicization has been so accelerated since 2004 that it is also appropriate to follow this, there is a serious reference and proposal to this effect in the law, but let me note that the amendment of the Law on General Administrative Rules 2016 is necessary, since we also need to put the current redefined wine law in an administrative order. The person who watched the presentation sees that the current draft will abolish the 2004 Wine Law, so a whole new wine law will be dated after Parliament's adoption. The law has a new structure, structure. Only the most necessary rules will then be regulated by law at this high level, and what can be and will sometimes require flexibility, speed, lower government or ministerial regulations. So many parts of the wine law will no longer be found in the wine law that has just been drafted. There is no question that the legislator is always looking for a purpose to be good, good, but then what we would like to expect from the law we have just drafted. In this, I can safely say that, in agreement with industry, the government has set acceptable targets. [[19.40]] We would like to achieve a significant administrative burden reduction, and as I referred to it, with today's digitalisation level, with the e-Learning of an administration in which we will filter out duplication, unnecessary data communications, requested either by the Statistical Office, the customs authorities, the HNT system itself, and will be able to request or upload the data concerned from a single interface. Of course, we would also like to achieve a reduction in the term of administration of certain procedures. For example, the administration time for wine to be put into circulation is rather difficult in the current system and has a binding administrative period. We would also like to reduce this period with the planned one. And there is no question that we believe that wine also deserves the protection, protection of products with geographical indications, that we have done for many products. We are now naming who should be the caretaker of this protection, and sanctioning the draft of the abuse of this protection and the misuse of it in the correct way, what retortions may occur there. And let us add that we have done a great deal to ensure the transparency of the Hungarian winery. However, we know that there is no economic activity where at times people do not speculate with a legal vacuum or even a slacking authority's attention and abuse occurs. Therefore, this system also greatly increases transparency. It is well known that Hungary has at times exposed large quantities of imported wine, mainly from Italy, and the marketing rules related to it and its appearance have always been the subject of debate. Although I would add that, perhaps since 2012, following the last major amendment of the wine law I mentioned at the time and due to the marked action of the National Council of the Mountains, imports of wine from Italy to some tens of thousands of hectolitres per year have recently fallen from Italy to some tens of thousands of hectolitres. In Hungarian, the square of Hungarian wine was opened here and in export markets. And let me refer to a series of changes, since both the order of buying grapes and the management of this will change. Unlike so far, the purchaser of the grapes will provide proof of receipt with a buying-in ticket, which will require him to indicate trivial data such as weight, the weight of the quantities of the grapes imported, the degree of must. And here, in the mustfs, let me mention that recently an unpleasant phenomenon, manipulation with mustfs, has to be filtered out, and this system can filter it out, as it will be mandatory to establish an online link with a database that will automatically be transmitted to an online database after measuring the must degree of the purchased grapes, so that the law also aims to ensure transparency and the protection of fair wineries. I note that a number of documents are initiated by the current wine law, and that termination does not mean that controlability, proof of origin will be impaired, and indeed, I have just suggested that this will be even more traceable. and will not be manipulated ex post and paper-based, as, unfortunately, the exploratory authority has shown. Some of them did. In this way, the currently known vineyard certificate will be removed, the wine certificate issued for the purposes of the stock certificate will cease, the wine certificate issued for transit to other wine holdings will cease and the marketing authorisation will cease. It replaces and simplifies these with two accentuated documents. A certificate of origin issued for the first so-called lees new wine, followed by a certificate of origin issued for the purpose of so-called final placing on the market. This is now known by the profession as the so-called C-type certificate of origin. But, as I mentioned, the termination of these certificates will also mean the administrative relief that was formulated as a purpose at the time of the submission of the law, and, on the other hand, as a result of the electronic system, the origin of control and wine, in Hungarian, of which grape variety, which area it comes from, this will certainly be proven by the newly introduced so-called extended buying ticket. This buying-in ticket will have to bear, in addition to the weight and must degree mentioned above, the certificate number and the place of origin of the grapes, i.e. the area of the grapes. This will be written in the e-Learning book, which will automatically be registered by the judges of the mountains, so it will be trivial to know which quantity of grapes and the quantity of grapes from which finished wine is the source of the grapes. The law will continue to create a new situation where the marketing procedure allows for a very serious simplification through electronics. I don't want to go into detail here on the current rules and paperwork, how, when someone wants to place wine on the market at the moment, starts this with wine authorities, ratings and everywhere, and how they finally get permission and can do so, I can now offer this product to large and retailers. There will be an extremely simplistic version. The marketing authorisation will be practically terminated and only one notification will be made instead, but the placing on the market will be subject to four very strong conditions. This is practically the so-called final or C-type certificate of origin; second, the marketing identifier issued by the wine authorities per lot; third, the analysis of the chemical composition; and fourth, if this is otherwise requested by the local producer communities, the mountain community in Hungarian, they may also request a sensory examination. This will be decided by each mountain village to request, in addition to the analytical test, the condition of sensory testing for placing on the market. And let's add that the electronicisation of data transmissions represents an additional reduction in burden for wineries. Let me mention the question of Tokaj separately. We know exactly, and I see my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik, Mr President, that he is ready to jump to explain his thoughts in more detail as a representative of the region, but, of course, the question of Tokaj must be dealt with separately by the wine law, there is no fairy tale. We are talking about a closed wine region for centuries, which the world and we Hungarians, of course, consider separately. Accordingly, special rules apply to the winery and winery in Tokaj, in all areas, as regards the detachment, as regards the use of the list of wine specialities, as far as the special rules for bottling are concerned, according to the rank and honour of Tokaj. As a practicing vine farmer, let me express a small concern that I cannot change, and I cannot make it better with an amendment motion. This will enter into force on 1 August 2021; more precisely, the law will enter into force sooner, but 1 August is always the date of the new wine year. Here, the years are calculated differently, understandably, for a gardening product. By then, we must prepare the entire Hungarian winery society for a major electronic and administrative transition. And August 1st is very close to the start of the harvest. In fact, let me refer to the irsai olive blood on the second week of August, when we took it on the first week of August, two years ago. I will ask the Secretary of State and the Government and the National Council of the Mountains to prepare the vineyards, the wineries and the mountain judges and the mountain settlements with extreme force. [[19.50]] And, of course, the IT background that will have to create this e-Learning system so that wineries and farmers do not encounter some very serious obstacles on the second week of August when the harvest must start due to physical and biological ripening. They won't wait there for programmers and everyone else to correct this or that mistake. The grapes will start going into the cellars, and there will be no problem there, because it may cause a serious uproar on the part of the vine producers. This is my only concern, but I can't help it, because, as I said, the wine year always runs from 1 August until 31 July of the following year. That will be the case now, but let us take into account any obstacles that may arise. Of course, the Fidesz fraction would like to support this draft wine law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, Indeed, the law before us has come before this House in order to facilitate the transparent and sustainable functioning of the wine-wine sector. In addition to the previous speakers, there are indeed a lot of useful and forward-looking regulations in this. I will discuss this briefly. However, the devil is always in the details, and we look forward to government regulations and implementing regulations as to what it will mean in practice for tens of thousands of people, families who still live from winemaking and winemaking. Now, decades ago, in socialism, we had almost double the number of vineyards we have today, and as a result of mechanization, this sector already requires significantly less manual work, but there are still a lot of people involved, and that is why it is important to help the creation of a law of the highest quality with professional preparation and knowledge. Indeed, I would mention only a few things close to my heart from this proposal. With the introduction of the e-cellar book, winemaking will be much more transparent in the future, and it will be much better to filter out the craftsmen. The buying-in ticket will also contain the sugar content of the harvested grapes, which is important because it is an important valuer of this product, so we can move towards quality. Speaking of quality, by highlighting a third important point from the draft law, wine products coming from outside the European Economic Area will also be subject to analytical and sensory testing, thus eliminating products of low quality or not really known as wine. Although I know that it is extremely difficult to do this in the European Union to add quality criteria to the distribution in Hungary, it would be good to finally get to the point that, in particular, in the case of wines coming from Italy, which are of extremely low quality, we can also filter out those which are not suitable for the Hungarian market. And then, getting used to the fact that the debate in the Committee on Agriculture is also taking place on a professional basis, bearing myself in mind, I also try from a professional point of view, if you will allow me to make one or two proposals now. Article 4 Paragraph 2 of Section 2 states that in the procedure for issuing a new planting permit, the administrative deadline is 70 days. We think that's a lot. We recommend a 30-day administration deadline to speed up the procedure, which is in the interest of the vinery. I would like to point out that, by the way, the practice is between 3 and 10 days in many cases, when planting permits are issued or they contribute to restructuring. So even so, I believe that these 30 days are a fully acceptable deadline. Article 4 In paragraph 3 of Section 3, we see that the planting and grubbing-up of the plantations is notified by the plantation user to the judge of the mountain, and the judge of the hill checks the installation or grubbing-up within 120 days of the notification. Dear Deputy Minister, We also consider this a very long time. Here's a principle and a practical consideration. In principle, if you just think of common sense, the ridge judge has four months to get in the SUV and go out on the mountain, it's an unreasonable long deadline. But it is a much more important practical issue, since 120 days of vegetation almost fully covers this time when it needs to be sprayed, and when the ridge is there, there may be no cause for any kind of action. So that's why I'm asking the representatives of the wallet in the box to consider these two changes. I'm moving on. Article 5 Paragraph 3 of Article 3 states that the judge may, in addition to imposing a default penalty, order the owner to grub up the vineyard. Article 4 § 8: If the holder of the plantation or the owner of the plantation fulfils the declaration, but the vineyard is not under normal cultivation after one year of warning, the judge shall notify the crop authority, which shall order the grubbing-up of the vineyard at the expense of the owner. Ladies and gentlemen, That's very rude. This is rude because planting a hectare of grapes now costs around HUF 6 million. It follows from this that a hectare of grapes represents millions of HUF. We have two proposals for this problem. On the one hand, it is also about shortening deadlines, as the deadline for warning is already very long, it is 30 days, but one year is an extremely long one, because in exactly that time an uncultivated vineyard can infect neighbouring plantations in its vicinity, causing undue damage to other farmers. So that is why it is important, on the one hand, to put the proposal on a deadline and to think about it. But we also have a much more practical proposal for amendment, which is that, following the request, if the owner or user of the territory does not comply with it, this may also be due to the fact that the person concerned, let us say, is prevented by a permanent disease, or, where appropriate, has died, and the legacy procedure is in progress, it is not possible to know who of the heirs will be the owner, so that this vineyard does not remain unclaimed and is cultivated, so we believe that the judge of the mountain may order or hire an entrepreneur to cultivate or repair this neglected area on the basis of a contract. The mountain community would pay the costs of this, which would then be burdened with the property concerned, could be satisfied by the fact that the grapes thus saved, which would become marketable, possibly from its income, or, if this is not possible or insufficient, after an auction. Going further to the special rules for the Tokaj wine region, I am looking at my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik, and I think he will be able to confirm the 16th anniversary. Paragraph 5 of this Article. It would also be worth considering this, since the proposed legislation states that the names referring to Tokaj wine specialities are prohibited on non-wine products. [[20.00]] Basically, I agree with that. However, there are products that have been on the market for a long time, such as the Tokaj aszú bonbon, which has been on the market for 18 years as a Hungaricum, which I have unfortunately not tasted, but it is certainly delicious, since it is a chocolate dessert filled with raisins soaked in Tokaj aszúbor. If this law is passed, then this product and I think there are other similar products that are discriminated against and removed from the market, causing significant harm to distributors for a long time. Perhaps it would be worth making an exception in some cases. Article 16 is replaced by the following: § 10 is also a professional comment, which reads: "Tokaj wine with a designation of origin shall not be sweetened. In the case of Tokaj-Hegyalány, the profession is not uniform, more precisely, in that it does not enter the Tokaj wines, which are called Szerencs sun, it is obvious, so it is clear, but it is not about that, but that part of the profession is a must concentrate made of its own wine, which is a natural substance, also from the vine of the producer, why it should not be used for the production of its products. It's also worth thinking about. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Finally, what is not in this law that we would very much like to see? It would also be worth considering that significant public subsidies and state aids for wineries should be linked to the purchase of these wineries, a significant proportion of the processed grapes from the wine region, where appropriate at least 50% from the wine region concerned, thus helping wine producers. And while we're at it, it would be nice to make sure that these state subsidies don't translate into sight cellars or holiday homes that are disguised as wineries, these scammers would be good to be excluded from the system. However, it could also be a reasonable idea that public money should be used to support Community vineyard processing plants which pursue Community interests. I go on, it's also a long-lived problem, isn't it? They say good wine doesn't need a company. Well, what we need to see is that we have basically good wines, we have good winemakers, but the wineries have a sales problem, despite the incredible decline in grape buying prices over the last few years, in many cases they do not even cover the cultivation costs, so wine producers are having a huge problem. The wines have not become cheaper, but in many cases they cannot sell them, the cellars are full. I do not see in the bill that a genuine marketing strategy based on market research would be implemented, how a good wine market could be made, although no doubt, and I also acknowledge that the Fidesz government has been using significant resources for wine marketing in recent years, but this should be used much more consciously, because, as we can see, statistics show, in the last ten years, the areas of grapes have decreased, as I said, exports have decreased, and unfortunately domestic consumption as well. Last but not least, problems with buying-in. In my opinion, it would not be devilish to include in the bill that the purchaser is obliged to pay the producer the price of the grapes bought within 30 days, that producers should not wait six months or even a year for the fruit of their work, while the grapes have already been made of wine, where appropriate, already sold. I think that this is unworthy of farmers, and if we think about it, if this law really is, in addition to promoting the transparent and sustainable operation of the vine-wine sector, it is also for the development of the sector, I would like to ask with respect that we also think of these vine producers, who are, how should I put it? I am greatly exploited by the greats, integrators and some wine traders. So I very much hope that these professional-based proposals will be heard by both the Deputy Minister and the wallet, and I hope that they will be accepted. I consider this to be a good bill, which is why I will propose support to the Jobbik fraction, and I will do so with an even better heart if these changes come true, and these amendments will pass through the committee and Parliament, because it is in our common interest that we have a better law. Thank you for your attention, thank you for listening, and I hope you've heard what I've said. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, the chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2020-12-01-197	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a traditional wine-growing country, where wine-growing and wine-growing are both national issues, as in France or Italy. Remember, Hungary is the seventh largest wine-producing country in the European Union, and the importance of Hungarian wine goes far beyond itself, as it is a significant Hungarian identity-forming factor as well as an important country-forming factor at the same time. Personally, as a Christian, I also have a special significance for the fruitage of the vine. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/13955. on vineyard and winery The purpose of the bill is to provide a legal basis for the comprehensive reform of the wine sector. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. Law on wine production and wine management, currently in force. As a result of the numerous changes that have taken place in the past 16 years, the text of the law has become significantly fragmented in order to take over the harmonisation of EU legislation, and thus there has been a serious need for a new wine law. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, submitted the T/13955. of the European Parliament and of the Council. Ladies and Gentlemen, This new wine law aims, on the one hand, to reduce the administrative burden on producers and winemakers, on the other hand, to make controls more effective, on the third, to introduce the ePincebook, to make the winery and winery more transparent on the fourth and, on the other hand, to ensure greater autonomy for producer communities on the fifth. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what was said in Mr Sándor Farkas' Deputy Minister's exposé and what has already been said in the keynote speech of my fellow Fidesz Mr Font Sándor, with which I fully agree, so I would like to focus on a small segment that has not yet been mentioned here, and this is the Murci, and I would like to draw your attention to the Murci. The Murci is a semi-fermented, sparkling, rather sweet-flavoured new wine. So far, there have been very many obstacles to its distribution in Hungary, although there is a great demand for it both at home and abroad, so the bill also deals with facilitating the marketing of Murci. The bill provides that in future no marketing authorisation will be required for the murci and no laboratory examination will be required. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats support the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[20.10]]
u2020-12-01-198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to show in this late hour that I'm such a very deep expert in winery and winery, let's just say that my knowledge is primarily user-specific. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik:]] But yet we are here in the debate of legislation, at this late hour, which is why it is best for a Member to try to back up his opinion directly from the stakeholders, from the impulses taken from there. I can honestly say that among those involved, among the experts we were able to ask in the group, I do not sell bagcats, and in this way I shoot gunpowder at the beginning of my speech, there were basically supportive opinions and they came in my direction. The concept of the law is basically considered correct by the people we ask, and they said the right things. First of all, to highlight the positive elements here, the draft reduces administration by eliminating repetitions and overlaps, adapting administration to processes and not vice versa, which was considered a very positive element. It protects the plantation area by linking other uses to the contribution of the mountain village. In fact, it is a cautious criticism here that sanctions are not really mentioned in the legislation, and, obviously, careful criticisms have also been made on the question of the data provider that we have asked. Obviously, the data provider will be the state, obviously it would be nice to see more of the enforcement regulations. It has also been said to me by the pro-government representatives who have spoken before me that this concept is good, because the detailed rules can obviously be dealt with at ministerial level, of course, at government level, often in detail, with some of the concerns expressed in this respect. I'd tell you a few things the law doesn't solve, but you can't expect a law to fix everything, of course. In the case of closed-garden properties belonging to the vineyard register, a producer indicated that they did not need a permit to install in these properties, so they could plant forest among the vineyards, because the wooded area would be easily transferred by the Land Office if necessary. If this is indeed the case in several areas, we believe that this problem should be addressed later. The legislation does not solve the problems of neglected areas, which is obviously annoying to the neighbours, and a lot of people have indicated that they have serious problems. Of course, the legislation also simplifies, in summary terms, by rethinking a often amended legislation, which may be a good thing, and it may actually be time for the Parliament to adopt a new law on winery and winery. Ádám Steinmetz, who spoke before me from the opposition, who had a deeper understanding of the subject, said very precisely the sections on which he had proposed. I believe that these are proposals to be considered, and although it is a strange position to call on the government to accept them, and any proposals that may be made on a professional basis and well-intentioned in the debate, but I believe that the legislation is already in this form a piece of legislation that I am going to ask my group to adopt. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2020-12-01-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now time for the pre-notification of the speech in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I do not know how many of us are here tonight, in this House, who, more than sixteen years ago, discussed the T/6563 bill on grape cultivation and wine management in the Parliament on a late evening in February, which was then discussed in the 18th of 2004. It was announced as a law, which is now the number one in centuries of reflection, but as my fellow Member Sándor Font mentioned, as the first legislation to focus on EU accession, many felt that he would finally settle our common cause, the issue of Hungarian grape and winemaking, properly for many years. However, the government, together with the sector, as the Secretary of State said, considered that, after nearly a decade and a half, a new proposal on this subject should be put before the legislation. This is, therefore, a very good recognition, because, as we have heard, over the past more than a decade and a half, for example, the legal system has changed significantly, and technical progress has also made it clear that we need to think more about regulation. For example, it has become clear that the administration of vine cultivation and winemaking, where possible, needs to be simplified, or that, for example, modernisation will continue with the introduction of the ePincebook system. However, some things remain the same, since the law, in accordance with previous legislation, deals with Tokaj-Hegyal as a historical tradition, so to speak, and to me as the elected parliamentary representative of the region, it is an official duty, incredibly close to my brave heart, that I should focus on this during the negotiation of the bill before us, as I did in 2004. Mr President, It is now well known that Tokaj-Hegyalja is one of the most well-known Hungarian wine regions in the world, perhaps it is only worth opening a serious debate about how long the wine-growing and wine-making culture has been present in the region. If we look at the beautiful volumes of the history of the county of Zemplén, which appeared in the time of the millennium, well, János Kossuth writes that he had already been growing grapes in the Tokaj towns before the Tartar Tour, but it is certain that the Tokajite towards the world news was the fourth. Bela's vincellers have launched it. I do not want to list these hundreds of years, because since then we have seen many good ages and difficulties, and the latter obviously include the outbreak of filoxera in the 1890s. But under all circumstances, it remains clear to us that we are in the possession of a unique treasure in Tokaj-Hegyalya, which must be valued, protected and protected. That is why I thank the Secretary of State for the fact that this law also deals with Tokaj-Hegyalja separately. Mr President, If only XLVII 1908 on banning wine counterfeiting and the placing on the market of counterfeit wine. We look back to a law article, and I think it has been clear all along that it is necessary to determine which types of vineyards belong to the Tokaj wine region, what special wines may be made there, and what measures are needed to protect them. It is pleased that the rapporteur is now explicitly emphasising that products with the designation of origin in Tokaj must meet certain basic criteria, including the yield on capital and the sugar content, both in terms of appearance and content. Ladies and Gentlemen, This bill is, quite rightly, given that Tokaj-Hegyalja is part of the world's heritage as a cultural landscape, and this is important not only because of its primacy, but because this wine region has a complex approach, the values found here aim at the body and the soul at the same time, as we say. [[20.20]] Sixteen years ago, I had to ask the question of how to define and regulate the conditions for quality wine production. I would just like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, that at that time we had to argue unfairly that the issue of Aszúbor and Main Wine with the most precious treasure of Tokaj-Hegyalja was answered by the draft legislation so that aszúbor and the main wine could be used by anyone in Hungary instead of only being classified in the Tokaj-Hegyalja wine specialties. Thank God it's gone. Today we have to talk about the proposed legislation on how producers and consumers view the aszú, which gives real world news to our wine region, since we can produce any excellent dry Furmint white wines, the Tokaj wine or Tokaj wine, and everyone in the world still remembers our excellent sweet wines, the Tokaj aszú. Mr President, As we say, we should sweep our own porters, so we must give the world a reliable, high-quality dry and naturally sweet Tokaj wine, and in order to do so, we must give up the cultivation of a number of grapes of world varieties, however tempting the idea of planting red grapes, pinot noir or cabernet sauvignon, or the temptation to produce rosé wine. Good and good. In this is the great secret, says Ferenc Kazinczy, the native of our region. The exceptional climate, terroir, soil and location must not be wasted if we know that we have tried, good grape varieties and wines, as the present wine law states. Dear House, As I said, Tokaj-Hegyalja has been threatened by many dangers over the past centuries, many difficulties have been experienced by the people of Zemplén. However, the greatest dangers were those that set aside our former values, not traditions, but focused on making production mass, cheap, almost too simple. Because of parcels moved down to skirts, fields, as the common language called them, are still known in large numbers of areas that, unfortunately, have been abandoned due to incompetence with mechanization, and some of them are being cultivated today by brave professionals. Nevertheless, the renewal of the northern part of the wine region, which could finally start after the change of regime, is less spectacular. As I have said, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a cultural landscape in the world heritage area in the case of Tokaj-Hegyalja. Therefore, it is important to see the cultivated hillsides as well as to take into account the unique overall picture of the wine region from anywhere in the course of development and job creation. I think that it is not the task of the bill before us, but we must confirm our commitment that this wine region is not only capable of developing with such restrictions, but that it is only through these recognitions that it will be able to remain truly competitive in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly well known to you that a major development programme for the past decades will be launched in the Tokaj-Zemplén region, funded by this plan with a budget of HUF 149.5 billion. With the help of this programme, it will be possible to support current investments for a long time, and a number of measures have been taken by the government so far, as my fellow Member Steinmetz has well recommended so-called Community processors, well, the government has helped three of these Community processors in Tokaj-Hegyalya, such as Tállya, Bodrogkeresztúr and Princegkut, which ensure that the production of grapes can be processed and bottled with quality equipment, if necessary. Thank God, these are well-functioning houses, community houses. I recommend it to all wine regions, by the way. In the programme that is now underway, the accessibility of the vineyards is improving, which, of course, increases the value of the vineyards, the road network of the region and the number of tourist destinations are also increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, Count György Széchényi, Member of the Parliament of Tokaj-Hegyalja, held here in the House on 19 November 1935 in connection with the bill on the regulation of the production, management and circulation of wine and the prohibition of wine counterfeiting, commemorating the problem of aljsőlők and the high vineyards remaining on the floor, confronted the legislators of the time with a dilemma similar to today. Despite all good intentions, we cannot go on the path offered by development programmes and modern, forward-looking legislation if we do not give impetus and opportunity to those who cannot come with us for various reasons. As Count Széchényi said, it was certainly necessary for the state to intervene in the redemption of the estates on the parlag from their indebted owners and in the transfer of them to small producers active in the undergrads, on which the public expenditure for the redemption of the area could soon have been repaid. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the midst of these circumstances, from the perspective of 85 years, my fellow Members, it is strictly necessary in Tokaj-Hegyalya to provide support and mentoring for all local citizens who are committed to quality wine production to overcome the disadvantages that, thanks to the communist-socialist era prior to the regime change, continue to live with us and make it difficult for many producers to grow their vineyard and business. Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of Tokaj-Hegyalja, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-01-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-203	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Dear Vines, Winemakers! Thank you for the word and the opportunity. Now, as a Member of the Parliament of Eger and its region, or to be a stylish one, I asked for the floor as a representative of the Eger wine region. A new wine law is being negotiated by the Hungarian Parliament. But before I get to that, let's look at the history. I am pleased that my fellow Member Hörcsik mentioned 2004 - the adoption of the previous great law. I am also proud that 16 years ago I was able to sit here in the Hungarian Parliament, and as an MEP in Eger, I was able to comment on this. Dear Parliament, In 2010, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán held a personal professional consultation with representatives of the Hungarian wine sector prior to the elections. At the end of this meeting, a serious professional material came together, which was named.12 points of the winemakers. If we look at what has been done, I can say that we are doing quite well, because Hungary's Government has declared vineyard and winery a priority agricultural sector. The rules on excise duty and product charges have changed positively for producers. On the basis of the comments made by the wine and grape producers, the mountain community law and the system of rules have been amended. Education and research have been renewed, the conditions for working on agricultural occasions have been simplified. Marketing authorisation has been adapted to European standards, less administration when applying for grants. The government wine advisory body has been established, national wine marketing with the involvement of wine producers is what is realized, and the possibility of marketing self-made spirits and sparkling wines has been simplified. [[20.30]] What has not been achieved so far from the 12 points is two: special supervision of the architecture of the wine and wine-growing settlements and a rational regulation of the relationship between wine consumption and driving. Dear Parliament, The fact that 10 points of the above mentioned 12 points have been achieved shows that Hungarian vineyards and winemakers can count on Fidesz-KDNP and the Government of Hungary. We have many common achievements, we are proud of the expertise, knowledge and international success of vineyards and winemakers, with which they bring the good news of our country far away. Dear Parliament, In 2012, we adopted the new mountain village law, to which I myself submitted amendments after prior consultation on behalf of the Eger wine region. I have also initiated the creation of a proportionate voting right, the extension of the obligation to pay contributions to wines imported from the countries of the European Economic Area for further processing and the regulation of the definition of the basis for the mountain community contribution, so that it cannot be defined in a discriminatory way for winemakers. The purpose of these proposals was clearly to protect domestic wine. Dear Parliament, In 2013, the sector received the biggest financial support after the change of regime, as more than HUF 8.5 billion of applications were opened for, for example, the renewal of vineyards and the promotion of investments on estates, as well as the promotion of wine and wine marketing. Dear Parliament, I myself, as a representative of the Eger wine region, have initiated several consultations with the winemakers and winemakers on the previous legislation that is now in force, and I have also done so with regard to this proposal. Dear Parliament, Its important ambition is to reduce bureaucracy and modernise administration and speed up the proposal. If this bill is adopted by my fellow Members, then the electronic administration and the one-stop-shop system for reporting can actually be implemented. With this, I think we can fully agree, let the vineyards and winemakers work, deal with what they know, grape and wine primarily, not filling unnecessary paperwork. With the adoption of the bill, the potential of producer communities will also be significantly increased in the future. Dear Parliament, We can be proud of the winemakers, as they produce more and better wineries, which are increasingly popular wines, which stand in their place on the international stage. I urge everyone to support this bill, and I myself will forward the proposals and opinions arising as a result of the consultation to the portfolio by Thursday. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-01-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask if someone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2020-12-01-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is usually customary in the Hungarian Parliament that when we talk about agriculture or one of its sectors, it always comes in the late hours. But I think that today, apart from the fact that it is already a late hour, and the curfew has already come into effect, I think that everyone will be able to go home regardless, but I do not wish to talk about it, but that this also shows how important this law is. On the basis of the comments made, I also think that once again the Agricultural Ministry had a law before the National Assembly with professional organisations and mountain communities, let me not classify it as putting it on the table with all professional organisations, which again demonstrates the importance of professional discussions in which we can move forward in order to improve efficiency in a profession and the development of the profession. I also consider this debate today to be an extremely open but extremely constructive debate, because I also feel that everyone is fundamentally in agreement with this bill in the context of the proposals, questions and suggestions that have been made. Of course, there are details that have either been overlooked by my fellow Members, or there may indeed be a request that can be put forward as an amending proposal for professional consideration. I can say that, together with my fellow Member, Mr Font Sándor, and perhaps even with Mr Hörcsik, we are the three who, let us say, have taken or worked together in this law, here in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, from the very first moment. Indeed, much has been said about this law or the wine law and the connecting laws here in Parliament, but I still think that we have just reached that level, and we have just reached the point with this law that this law can really resolve a significant part of today's problems, I feel. The highlights that Congressman Font has said, I believe that they will only strengthen the strength of this law and confirm the importance of these issues. I don't want to go through all this right now, but perhaps that word didn't say so with regard to grapes and wine, but I think that when we talk about monitoring certain goods, in this case also around the grape-wine sector and wine-making and grape-growing is extremely important, and this will also appear practically in this law. The idea that on 1 August I believe that there may be some discussion in this with either a Commission amendment, but I do not wish to give an idea, will be decided by the experts that it might be possible to raise such a thing. At the same time, we fully agree, I believe, that this is the next task of a law, when it is created here within the walls of Parliament, how we can put it into practice, so to speak, how the actors, the actors involved in the law, can express it, not only to formulate it, but also to implement the idea that the law contains. Mr Font's suggestion is that yes, sectoral workers must be prepared to properly learn the law, so to speak, or perhaps even practice it. There is very little time for this, but here it is the responsibility of professional organisations, I think, to consult with all wine producers in this regard. Although it is difficult now because of the Covid situation, such professional meetings and events are not very much, in fact, I would say we can't, but let's hope that in the spring this will resolve a little, and then these events... But we also have modern online forms for this, so I think we need to work together on this. Adam Steinmetz, we especially thank him for his supportive thoughts. I could answer a few questions here, but I do not wish very much, even because I did so in the Commission's detailed debate, because I felt rather that he wanted to support a detailed debate, Mr President, his own amendments to be tabled, submitted or tabled. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz intervenes.]] There is no problem with that, I suggest that you submit it as an amendment and then the wallet will consider it. Perhaps so much so that these long time periods, which you have raised here as a problem, are indeed something that can be considered, but there is something that is already referred to in another law, and we also have the opportunity to modify the deadlines. The question of wine marketing, I think, is important to all of us. This has been a question for many years, which I think, and perhaps Richard Hörcsik here, or I think it was the congressman who was kind enough to tell us that good wine, we always say, doesn't need a company. But we need a company, we can safely say that, because in today's world, in this highly developed consumer world, it is necessary that these values, which we produce, must be purchased by consumers with adequate marketing activity. [[20.40]] I would like to thank Mr Imre Vejkey for his support. The reference to the murci, I think, will also be given an appropriate answer in committee. Thank you very much. I don't see Congressman László Varga anymore. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: Recorder!]] I don't see him in Parliament right now, but it doesn't matter. They are also expected to support the adoption of the law by reference to expert opinions. This question concerning the closed garden is rather of a different nature, not specifically part of the vineyard-wine law. At the same time, he was thinking about the problems of abandoned areas. But it's the 5th. If I remember correctly, there is a provision for these questions, so I think we will be able to provide an appropriate answer to that too. My fellow Member Hörcsik is committed to the great Tokaj nedű, the landscape, as well as to his representative, he has worked and is still working in the Tokaj region today, and also in the origins of this great wine, grapes and the Tokaj name, I think he has put himself there at every moment, sorry for the wrong expression. Indeed, these values, which Tokaj provides in the Hungarian image, Hungarian public awareness and the world, must be valued and protected. Since Tokaj is one of the world's most respected wine regions, its value must be preserved. The proposals that have been drafted in the law serve this purpose. I think you'll accept that, Congressman. Of course, this was included as a result of the professional consultation. Thank you for the historical reflection that you referred to earlier, thirty, fifty or even one hundred years in the region. Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai is a Member of Parliament in the Eger region and a member of the good Eger red wines, I imagine. Only two points of that 12-point package of proposals have not yet been met. We can hope that these two points will come true once in a while. Thank you all very much for your support. I am particularly pleased that these debates are indeed professional debates in Parliament, which I feel is better than anything else. Allow me to get out of my skin here, too, because I am also the representative of a wine region, the Csongrád wine region. This is not the most typical wine region, we're talking about the Great Plain. I just want to tell you that the Great Plain has values, too. The wine region of Csongrád is a thousand-year-old wine region. I think that the varieties that are in these areas, I can think of the great wine region of Sándor Font, in their kind, are as valuable, I say, in their kind as even the nobler wines. There's a demand for that, too. These vineyards, these winemakers, must not be forgotten, it is a great common story. I think that the Hungarian winery society and wine-growing society will take good note of the provisions of the law. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-206	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to the XXVII of 2020 on the support to be provided by the parliamentary group General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Presentation submitted by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, László Böröcz, Fidesz, Tibor Pogácsás, Fidesz, István Simicskó, KDNP, Members T/13928. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is an amendment to the law adopted in the spring on the possibility for parliamentary political groups to provide support for their savings to their parties. This was necessary, and we initiated it at the time, during the spring session, because we wanted to strengthen the social engagement of the parties. Many party activists helped the elderly, the needy, in the extreme epidemic. The point and point of our current amendment proposal is also to extend the deadline of 31 December in the original Act by one year, as the epidemic situation will clearly be with us at the beginning of next year, unfortunately. By the way, Fidesz, Fidelitas and KDNP activists are helping the elderly as we speak. Right now, we're calling our elderly supporters over 65 and asking them if they need any help, and our activists are still trying to help the needy. Very briefly, the amendment itself is very short, but the deadline would be exceeded by one year. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that they did not wish to make their views known orally during the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13928 presented by Máté Kocsis, László Böröcz, Tibor Pogácsás and Dr István Simicskó. I would like to say that this year has obviously been an exceptional year for the pandemic situation, and unfortunately we are now on the second wave of this situation, if you can put it that way. In the spring, the government made a decision, establishing three funds in addition to informing Parliament, the Defence Fund, the Economic Fund and the Fund for support against the epidemic coming from the European Union. The Defence Fund has been compiled for several purposes from several chapters for the budget. This is where, among other things, 50 percent of the support of the parties was added, but this fund covers revenue from budgetary transfers, retail tax, part of the car tax, contributions from the financial institutions sector, and earlier wage increases for health professionals and women. On this basis, it is clear that the salary arrangement of health professionals and women in charge of health care was also organised, from which the government settled the one-off HUF 500 thousand wage supplement for healthcare workers in 2020, and from this fund they tried to make the purchase of assets and investments needed to manage the epidemic. I think it's important to note that the government started saving itself. We consider it very important that we should talk about common responsibility in this area, that everyone should play their part in the fight against the epidemic, and that political parties cannot be excluded from this. The proposal itself should be supported, as it is about the fact that the political groups can support the parties they want to support by 31 December 2021 at the expense of their operating framework, thereby helping to promote social cooperation that is necessary to address the pandemic situation. I can only repeat myself, because at the first round trial and at the time of the adoption of the bill, I have already said that there is a need for cooperation in this situation, so that is the case during the second wave of the coronal virus, there is a need for cooperation both in Hungarian society and in political life. On behalf of the Group, I would like to say that we support and accept the proposal of my fellow Members, and we would also like to make this proposal to left-wing politicians. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-01-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker and group leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To briefly refer back to Mr Csaba Nagy's speech, I would like to say that, looking around, I do not see left-wing representatives in the Chamber at present. [[20.50]] As the leader of the Green Party of Hungary, the LMP, I would like to respond to this proposal. Indeed, it has been said a number of times over the past period by the government that everyone must take their part in the defence, and my fellow Member Csaba Nagy gave a long list of the brutal austerity measures that the government has applied in order to establish this particular Economic Protection Fund and other funds that my fellow Members have also talked about. Basically, I agree that everyone should play their part, and, of course, we didn't say a word when half of the party's state support, including half of LMP's state support, was taken away. All the more, we have raised our voice that the municipalities have been affected by such brutal restrictions, given that the municipalities are the number one bastions of defence, and everyone knows that without strong, well-functioning municipalities there is no effective defence. Besides, especially in rural areas, basic public services have been very difficult to cope with by the municipalities, so the series of these amazing restrictions has made this defence capability difficult, and many public services are practically on the verge of collapse. I would like to tell the government to review these measures, and I am thinking of small settlements in particular. By the way, even in a debate, State Secretary Balázs Orbán said that they are also watching the events, watching how the smallest settlements can manage to take away the vehicle tax and, if necessary, intervene. I can say that I communicate with a lot of mayors, and it is really necessary to reevaluate this decision, not to impose additional restrictions on municipalities, to re-evaluate the so far, and to exempt the smallest settlements from the adverse effects of these austerity measures in order to be able to carry out their essential tasks in such a difficult situation. And what I find particularly painful is that, as an example of this year's HUF 85 billion from the Economic Protection Fund, created by this kind of austerity, was spent on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and they spent on the part of themselves, the return of which cannot be guaranteed in any way. I think that, in this difficult situation, all resources, every penny, should indeed be used to support the Hungarian people. As far as the concrete proposal is concerned, so that the parliamentary factions, which obviously represent their mother parties in Parliament, can support the parties at the expense of their savings, resources and frameworks, are fully acceptable, the original bill was voted by the LMP faction in the previous period, and we also voted in favour of this deadline amendment. I think it's a logical step. They are not independent of each other, in a legal sense we can say that the parliamentary factions and political parties are independent, but obviously a political party is running for election, and as a result, we are all sitting here on the basis of the people's vote as representatives of the various factions, I myself as the leader of the LMP faction, and we represent the policy and the program that, by the way, around 7 percent of Hungarian people voted for in 2018. We will therefore, of course, adopt this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, the chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2020-12-01-213	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring of this year, the National Assembly adopted, in view of the emergency situation, the 12th of 2020 on the control of the coronal virus. Law. This law authorised the Government to suspend the application of certain laws, to derogate from legal provisions and to take other exceptional measures in order to guarantee the legal certainty and stability of citizens' lives, health, personal property and property, and to ensure the stability of the national economy, until the emergency is resolved. On the basis of this mandate, the government has also involved political parties in public burden-sharing in the defence of the Crown Virus and has taken half of all parties' state support. Ladies and Gentlemen, XXVII of 2020 on support from the parliamentary group In the year 2020, the parliamentary factions were allowed to transfer funds to their own party only to the detriment of their own savings. This means, in particular, that no additional budgetary resources could be used by political parties, but they could only transfer their savings within the party. This amending proposal seeks to extend this possibility until 31 December 2021, i.e. a further year, in such a way that the support can continue to be granted on the basis of an individual decision, with a supporting document, and also provides that the head of the parliamentary group has the power to decide on the support. Ladies and Gentlemen, Like the previous speakers, I can say that the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this bill; please support it. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have speeches from Members. Mr Csaba Nagy, from the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to waste time, I just want to clear up a misunderstanding. My fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, said that he does not understand the decision to launch an investment of HUF 82 billion on the Belgrade railway line in relation to the Defence Fund. I would like to say that this is a sure misunderstanding, because the resources of the Anti-CDC Fund include 50 percent of the support of the parties, and the funding of the previously decided wage increase for health workers and women, the one-off wage supplement for health workers in 2020 for HUF 500,000/person, and the decisions taken by the operational tribe, which include funding for asset purchases and investments, epidemiological investments. So I think that this is also why we now have mask production in Hungary, and we can also manufacture gloves, and that is why we can also meet the internal needs of disinfectants. I think you were referring to the economic fund, but I wanted to make that clear that the investment you mentioned was not funded from the epidemiological fund. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-01-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes of the LMP Group.
u2020-12-01-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I recall saying that this Budapest-Belgrád railway line HUF 82-85 billion was paid from the Economic Protection Fund, and I asked for it a lot of times. And by the way, now that Minister Palkovics, who is responsible for the organisation of economic protection during this period, we have seen in his report the various statements, in diagrams, the thousands of billions of forints on which the government used the collective name that this fund was used to protect the economy, there was this investment. By the way, the Member mentioned those measures, such as a one-off HUF 500 000 allowance for healthcare workers, which we consider to be a very important step, but we regret that social workers did not receive a one-off allowance of HUF 500 000, and they did not receive it because, at the meeting of the Economic Committee, we were told that no funds had been available for this. So this is why we find it untenable to take measures that, in such a difficult situation, the government supports or does not stop investments for which there is no guarantee of return, and we do not see any documents, because this year it has been encrypted for ten years. But this does not change the fact that we will, of course, support this specific proposal. Thank you.
u2020-12-01-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask my fellow Member, as rapporteur, Mr László Böröcz, to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go.
u2020-12-01-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would not agree to the debate that the Member has just opened, but I am pleased to say that everyone basically supports this bill. As I said, this would be about the fact that the parties can maintain their role in society and their mission to take social responsibility without any problems in 2021. Hopefully, this will not be necessary any longer, the epidemic will be resolved next year, and life will continue in the normal state. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.00]]
u2020-12-01-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your cooperation and we will continue with the speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP Group, asked for a post-meeting speech. You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, usually after the agenda, I am talking about my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, which is the problem in this region, and I am going to do so now. I must respond to what Peter Hoppál of Baranya 2nd Constituencies has said in recent days. In a debate, Mr Peter Hoppál said that the government does not abandon the countryside, rural cities, rural areas. Well, I must reply to Congressman Peter Hoppál that, unfortunately, that is not the case. We have talked a great deal about the importance of local authorities during this difficult period in the various debates of the plenary session, and we also know that small settlements in rural areas, especially in the break-down regions, must struggle very hard to carry out their daily duties in peacetime, because they do not receive enough support to carry out their important tasks. In such a situation, when cities and villages have lost a great deal of their resources in the wake of the economic crisis, in this situation they also have to perform a separate task, the task of defence, and therefore we believe that the task of the government and the task of the Parliament is to provide adequate resources for this important task. Well, unfortunately, we can see that the government has brought a series of austerity measures. We talked today about the government's decision to take away the car tax revenues. In the case of Pécs, this resulted in a loss of HUF 455 million; in the case of Komló city, the municipality lost HUF 51 million; in the case of Kozármisleny city there were 27 million negatives, and we can continue to see how many millions of forints were lost in the small settlements of Baranya 2nd constituency. I can tell you that Pécs County City, the largest city in Transdanubia, is in a very difficult situation anyway. This may otherwise be blamed for the long-term Fidesz and Balliberal City Administration, which also pursues similar destructive policies in the previous period. Basically, the city's debt amounts to about HUF 20 billion, the economy is in a very difficult situation, because in recent cycles inadequate coalitions led Pécs' fate, and unfortunately, the economy of Pécs is by far the weakest of the large rural regional centres. This is why it is a particularly big problem that, in such a serious situation, in such an epidemiological period, nearly half a billion forints have been taken away by the government this year, and since then we can see that it has virtually cemented this measure, so it is a definitive decision that the vehicle tax revenue has been taken away. But we can also see that it was a very serious and very dangerous austerity measure on the part of the government that the government withdrew from public support for public transport during such a critical period, leaving the municipalities to perform this extremely important public task, which is a very serious burden for the municipalities in a period of peace, outside of the crisis. It is important to concentrate flights in such a situation so that congestion can be reduced. Well, that's why it would be appropriate to withdraw this austerity measure and to give the resources to Pécs so that he can also carry out this compression. It was also a very serious mistake that, unfortunately, MEP Péter Hoppál and other pro-government representatives in Baranya County did not support our proposal to withdraw the utility tax to give very difficult water utilities an opportunity to provide the most important public service, drinking water supply in the longer term and in the medium term. I can tell you that we are going to put forward this proposal over and over again, because it is simply necessary to take this burden away. Tettye Forrás Zrt., which operates in the supply area of Pécs. I can give you a shocking number: in the 15-year term, in addition to important maintenance and replacement work, there is 20 billion forints missing, and no government minister, secretary of state has been able to answer my many questions about how these funds can be replaced. So as a zero step, we can say that the utility tax must be abolished, and tens of billions of forints may be granted to this sector. Unfortunately, we can see that not only the local governments, but also the university sphere, were taken away by austerity measures: 2 billion HUF from the University of Pécs. Here was the good news that Secretary of State Bódis, Mr Rector, said in a debate a few weeks ago that they were already working to make up for this amount. We are very confident that the government has heard many thousands of protests in Pécs: on our initiative, many thousands of people signed a petition to give back this abstract HUF 2 billion to Pécs, because the university has an extremely important role in Pécs' life, not only the centre of scientific and cultural life, but we can say that it is a city in the city and has a very important role in economic life. I ask my fellow members of the Government to never forget that their mandate was not given to them by Viktor Orbán, not by Fidesz, but by the people in Pécs and Baranya, and therefore to act accordingly and to support the proposals aimed at providing Pécs and Baranya with the resources necessary for their defence. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-01-222	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Tibor Nunkovics, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title "The Difference between Propaganda and Reality." You have the floor.
u2020-12-01-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Although there are not many of us here, I would nevertheless like to say my speech after the agenda, inspired by a Facebook call, in which I asked workers to share with me the experiences they have experienced in recent times in the context of the epidemic and the economic crisis in relation to their workplace, their work, or even the financial difficulties they face during these periods. I got a lot of letters. In these five minutes, I can only read a few, but I would like to continue with these letters in a speech after another agenda. Of course, I changed the names because I don't want to get anyone in trouble. István: I would like to take advantage of the possibility of getting my story to the House. Well, my job was saved, which means I was dismissed on the grounds of Covid-19. At that time, the number of thousands of jobs that were being protected was loudly heard from everywhere; the jobs of me and my 149 colleagues could not be protected. Why is it that I work my ass off when I'm young, and when I'm in trouble, they only give me 110,000 as aid? Yeah, and I'm gonna have to tax that too. Why is it that the media is singing a thousand times, that they're testing everyone who works in the public sector, and my mother hasn't been tested in the third week, and that's just the tip of the iceberg. I hope this uncertainty goes away, which I have to live at 27 just because we have incompetent leaders. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I lost my job on March 19, working at a high school buffet as an employee. The cafeteria didn't open in September, because my boss thought we'd have to close it anyway. Since then, I've put my resume in several places, but they haven't returned my calls. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Orbán doesn't care about the fate of the families either. My problem is that me and my wife have been through this virus. Thank God we're okay, but we have an eight-month-old daughter whose heart was operated on, and the cardiologist said that both my partner and my little girl would need two negative tests. Whatever I'm counting, it's 80,000 forints. Since my wife is a housewife, she's home with my son and daughter, so the doctors said they can't take any more tests because she doesn't work in health care. I'm asking you, what's with the social security? I'm not writing this as an attack because I know you're in favor of a free test. Please inform Viktor Orbán to wake up, because not everyone is Lőrinc Mészáros, so that he can pay for one of these. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[21.10]] Babett: I'm a single mom, and I'm a single mom. He's currently registered as unemployed. It's awfully hard to find a job like this, especially since kindergarten is probably shutting down for a little while, because of the coronal virus infection of one of the kindergarten teachers. Right now, I'm doing a casual job that I can do a day or two a week in this situation with my three-and-a-half-year-old. It's so hard every day to worry about how tomorrow's gonna be, how I'm gonna pay the rent. I don't get a job, because I only got to work six hours while my little boy was in daycare. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Gabriella: I learned today that I have to pay 100% of my employee's wages and, of course, his contribution. By the way, on November 11th, we had to close our cafeteria. I'll ask you how to pay if I don't have any income. It's outrageous that the catnip catering business is being crushed into the ground. I can't feed my child, but I have to pay the rent and pay the employee, of course. I'll ask you how. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Alexandra: We work for about 20 people in a small business. We produce and deliver panels for a large company in Germany. We work two shifts for a net of 1200 forints an hour. The company in Germany switched to reduced working hours from this month to March, which means we get less material, less work. It is likely that most of our December month will be unpaid leave, since reduced working hours cannot be claimed for such a company. Furthermore, what we have received every year at the end of the Christmas year, which came in handy during the holiday season to complement the little that remains after the payment of the bills, will only be received next March or April. And there are deaf mutes among us, mothers raising their children alone, disabled pensioners who care about all the money. But unfortunately, in this case, when such a small company should help the government, it will not receive any support, so it will have to survive this crisis alone, without having to let anyone go. Well, that's our story. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And there are a lot of stories like that in this country, and I'd like to continue it next week. I would ask my fellow pro-government Members to finally wake up, to see the reality, and not to turn down opposition proposals, especially if they do not cost any budget money, but to support them because people really need them. Thank you.
u2020-12-01-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik Group asked for a speech with the title "Inconspicuousness at the Somogyvár St. László National Memorial." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-01-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Somogyvár, a longer arm's length from Lake Balaton, is famous for many things. On the one hand, here was the quarters of Chief Koppány, who traditionally began with his rebel troops against King István. Then Somogyvár later became the centre of Somogy County, its headquarters, and it was for a long time. In recent years, many people have seen Somogyvár only as the Slope of Pogányvölgy, because in recent years the village has received more than 600 million forints of tender, which we are happy about. We would only be happier if settlements of the size of Somogyvár could in the future receive subsidies of the same size as Somogyvár. But Somogyvár is also famous for the fact that in 1091 our King Saint László built a Benedictine monastery, whose ruins are still visible in Kupavár Hill, and more than that, in 2015, they renovated it from some 1500 million forints, built a visitor center, and also one of our national memorial sites. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to contemporary architectural masterpieces, we would also be able to see tools, coins and important exhibits in the visitors' centre, but we would only be able to see if, at present, the visitor centre was not closed because of the coronal virus epidemic. But it also has to be said, and I have done so many times, that the visitors of the visitor center are unworthy of low attendance. As State Secretary Balázs Orbán confirmed and supported by numbers, much less people visit and discover the cultural and national heritage of Somogy, the region, the Pogányvölgy than is necessary. Why is that? Because more marketing should be translated and filled with tourist attractions in Somogyvár and this visitor center. Unfortunately, we can see that the 4,000 vineyards that had been planted here have disappeared without a trace, and we still don't know where and it hasn't been replanted. Just as the promises of Attila Móring József did not come true, neither did the stage, the bleachers, the construction of the pilgrimage place, nor the chapel. It would be very important if these improvements could be implemented. Abolishing the current hopeless situation, it would be good at least to open the viewer to the great gentleman, because, yes, Somogyvár has a tens of metres tall, three-storey viewer, which is locked away from the Somogyi and visitors, even though making it free and using it at its own risk would certainly attract tourists and guests in addition to the locals as a magnet. Once something has been built on public funds, it would be good for the public to have a public interest and a view of the beautiful Benedictine ruins, the beautiful park, the promenade, the visitor center and, not least, the majestically beautiful Somogy landscape. Thank you for your attention, thank you for listening, and I hope you will listen to my words.
u2020-12-01-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week, Monday, at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone.
