u2020-10-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 8th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. As usual, we start our work with speeches before the agenda. Our current affairs! Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio has applied for a speech on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the Dialogue, I would like to thank once again those involved in the fight against the epidemic, those who are recovering in hospitals, we wish them a speedy recovery and we express our sincere condolences to the families of the deceased. Those who really care about their own settlements can't stand by and watch them slowly but surely eliminate the local government. It is also in the word itself: the local government means that a settlement governs itself, and not the people of power decide, the people of power governs a local government, but, with the help of the power of the people, the local mayors and municipal representatives. Even the Fidesz thought so a few years ago. You like to refer to the times before 2010. Let's see what Fidesz said before 2010 about local government. Not so far from here, in 2009, in Kossuth Square, Lajos Kósa, your municipal representative, read a 12-point manifesto to the assembled. Allow me to quote only two points from this point:. Each municipality has the right to its property, the government cannot lay its hands on it, cannot take it away. Each municipality has the right to its income, it cannot be taken or used by the central state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Since 2010, Fidesz has been totally against these principles, and since October 2019 it has explicitly punished opposition-led municipalities. They're cynically doing this this year on the basis of the epidemic. Of course, for the Fidesz-led municipalities, there is always a small amount of tao money, a few winning tenders or extraordinary grants. Fidesz favors and bleeds out on a political basis. But when you punish opposition-led self-governments and cities, you punish not opposition leaders, but citizens living there, including Fidesz voters. Moreover, in this difficult situation, the Orbán government is blocking the delivery of the EU crisis package of 2500 billion to the Hungarian people. It does so because it refuses to accept the rule of law, which is, in fact, anti-corruption rules. Soon, a Fidesz State Secretary will stand up and say that Hungary is being attacked because of the rule of law because he refuses to accept refugees and immigrants. The problem is that already in 2012, Hungary was severely criticised in terms of the rule of law with the Tavares report, then it was the country's enemy, and then there was no immigration, no refugee problem. That's how the fidesz logic goes down. That's it. On the other hand, the management of Free Cities is willing to accept these strict rules [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Sargentini report?]] , is willing to operate the municipalities transparently, and we believe that hundreds of thousands of voters and locally living voters are willing to accept this, and will say, regardless of party standing, that half of this money, half of 2500 billion, should be spent by the municipalities. The aim of these money is not to be a luxury hotel, not a yacht port, not a private winery, not a stadium, not to spend it on multis, but to be a real help in these difficult times: to build social housing, to develop public services, or to provide housing support to local people. No one knows better than local mayors and council representatives what is needed locally. To this end, several settlements of the country have launched a referendum at the same time, if you like it, we will initiate a consultation, so it will soon be revealed that Fidesz is on people's side, or will be faced with the will of people living in the local settlement. The four Visegrád capitals, Bratislava, Prague, Warsaw, 36 European cities have already joined the Free Cities initiative, and from here we ask all Hungarian settlements to join this initiative. The more municipalities join, the more voters will have the opportunity to express their views. We need a new approach to crisis management, which will benefit the majority instead of making the few more rich. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-10-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dömötör Csaba, State Secretary, will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Our feeling is that when they talk about local governments, they're less and less able to deal with the responsibility that you've had for a year now. As far as the government's attitude is concerned, it begins with the enormous burden that this government has caused local governments when it has taken over a huge debt and there are ongoing subsidies, developments in all parts of the country, regardless of what mayor it is or what region it is. I would also like to tell you that budget support has been constantly increasing for the municipalities. If you look at next year's budget figures, you will find a higher number in it, despite the epidemic. And then I didn't even mention that the business tax, because the economy has increased, business tax revenues have also enriched the cash register of the municipalities in the first place, and this is also true in the case of Budapest. As far as the EU funds you mentioned are concerned, we see that the campaign to ensure that the government has as little EU funding as possible has been warmed up again. In this context, we have an important experience, namely that we can only be certain of the EU funds that are labeled to national governments. If we have to apply separately for these funds, we see that in its proportions more money flows back to the old Member States, the richer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So what you're proposing is to suggest the risk of a huge loss of resources, so it's nothing more than selfish party political gambling. I'm asking you not to. What performance you are able to perform in the municipalities, by the way, is very nicely summarized in the last year, for example, in Budapest. From the perspective of a year, more and more people can see that there is a price to pay for left-wing inertia and confusion. Let's start by saying that while you're thanking the doctors and nurses for their support, the D.C. leadership hasn't added anything to the epidemiology defense. Facebook posts, which are whiny and responsibilities, can hardly be classified as meaningful actions. The lack of leadership is spectacular elsewhere. The Lánchíd investment continues to stall. For now, the only thing going on in this case is pointing fingers. There's one thing I want to make clear here too. If the capital can't cope with the Lánchíd investment, then the government is ready to take over this case. Smaller things happened, because they happened somewhere, for example in the field of transport, but there wasn't much to thank. For example, they have made the Grand Boulevard one lane in many places by significantly increasing the traffic jams, and you know very well that if cars have to spend more time in traffic, it will significantly increase the environmental load, and neither can you. It is an aggravating circumstance that the parties were not asked at all before their decision. They referred to a dialogue, even the name of their party, but they weren't asked. As far as economic issues are concerned, as I have said, the municipalities will receive more resources next year, and we also know that Budapest is sitting on more than 100 billion dollars, but it does not seem to want to sacrifice to help those in distress. For example, they promised not to give every pensioner a heating allowance in the winter. The Mayor already explains why he doesn't, he says that the capital didn't make such a promise, but the parties did. That's kind of a smile. Then, despite the problems of tourism in Budapest, they have boasted only of the transfer of insect hotels and the construction of wasp garages. It would be nice if people were just as concerned. Plus, if we get it right, they're thinking about raising taxes on a drastic tax increase. [[9.10]] Honourable Congressman, We saw where it would lead if the left wanted to deal with a crisis by raising taxes. They don't want to go down this road again, because it would hurt not only Budapest, but the whole country! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The green paint is not enough! Mr Schmuck, from the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the Prime Minister is absent now, let me congratulate him on the birth of his fifth grandson. A grandchild is a joy, but not only joy, but a great responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, Children who have just been born are very likely to live up to XXII. Company, but only if our planet remains viable. The problem is great: we have polluted our environment, soil, surface and groundwater to an enormous extent; we are producing huge waste mountains, which the oceans cannot absorb; we are overusing our natural resources; we are drastically reducing biodiversity; we are cementing the green surfaces, and I can still tell you what kind of attacks we are committing against nature. But we can't continue to do this unpunishedly, which is a very serious warning sign of the acceleration of climate change. We just need to open our eyes a little bit, and we can see that this is also in Hungary. In recent months, I have heard several times from older people after a floody rain that they have never experienced before in their lives. These extreme weather conditions cause very serious damage to family homes, but also to agriculture. We have to act! Both the European Commission and the European Parliament have decided to take more stringent steps for all of us. At last week's European Council, the summit leaders discussed a 55-percent emission reduction target, which, although it falls short of the 60-percent decision of the European Parliament, while we already know that, according to the scientific position, this would require a small reduction of 65 per cent in Europe by 2030. LMP, the Green Party of Hungary, supports the latter. This is the key to not exceeding 1.5 degrees Celsius global warming. If Europe does not commit to stricter climate targets by the end of the year and does not set an example, then the other large issuing states will not move their ears, and the possibility of avoiding the climate disaster will indeed slip away. And the stakes are huge: the future of our children and grandchildren. Therefore, the LMP calls on both the Government and the Prime Minister not to veto stricter EU climate targets at the December meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, During the spring period, I myself have often raised my voice in order to draw the government's attention to the importance of building modernisation and insulation programs, because this will save energy, reduce air pollution, and reduce the spending on families. Unfortunately, the government hasn't heard what we're talking about, but the direction is this. Last week, the European Commission published its strategy for the building modernisation programme. The Commission aims at at at least doubling the modernisation rate over the next ten years and ensuring that renovations result in greater energy and resource efficiency than before. It is planned that serious EU funds will be available for this purpose. Obviously, it is necessary to prepare for receiving the money, but what we see is that the Hungarian government is at a step disadvantage, it does not support the insulation of the family houses, its heating and energy modernisation, even the European Union funds for the insulation of residential buildings have been diverted earlier. LMP has proposed a 300 billion-dollar building energy package, which includes support for domestic solar energy, in addition to insulation and window replacement. Of course, we consider it important that solar panels are not placed on valuable green surfaces, but on top of family houses. As a result of such a building energy programme, residential heating energy can be reduced by about 40 percent, as does the overhead, predictablely and permanently. Ladies and gentlemen, We're not talking about being climate champions because we're not. Environmental and nature protection must be taken seriously and climate change should be tackled as a priority because the future will be green or not. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-20-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Allow me to reply to what has been said with a very appropriate quote: the action is first, the word is second. We all know that this is the idea of István Széchenyi. If you didn't use it specifically in this regard, I think you should do it here. We have recently felt that it has become increasingly fashionable to talk about the environment, and in many cases speech and action are not close to each other. Obviously, this is a subject on which everyone gets their head on, everyone has a thought for it, but once again, if we don't pair up action and thought, then it's a pretty useless thing. We must certainly see that the government is on the side of action, and I must say firmly that any accusation that is not important to the government, that we do not sink into it, that we do not negotiate with either the domestic partners or with neighbouring countries, that is certainly not the case. Obviously, this is a story in which we can't really experiment, so if we assess our daily environment, how and what action we have, then we are on the right track if we inform each other of such theoretical, slightly textbook-flavoured thoughts, I don't say we're doing something useless, but we're not going as far as it would be desirable. Let us first look at the theoretical, not very practical part, because my fellow Member has given us some thought in this regard. The government has already taken a number of measures to protect climate protection and allow me to draw your attention here to the climate action plan, the impact of climate change on the Carpathian Basin. We approved the energy strategy, the national energy and climate plan, adopted the principles of the national clean development strategy, developed the details of the implementation of the climate and nature conservation action plan. But, my fellow Member, that I should not make the mistake of speaking only a little textbook-flavoured theoretical thoughts, allow me to recall a few specific measures, to be heard here in the House. It is our goal, and we have set out to eliminate illegal landfills and punish those who cannot identify with the fact that this is a wrong act, we are punishing the polluters. Let's clean the country, and I think it's a useful job, where from the youngest children ready to act to the oldest, everyone can have a job in it, and we are happy to see that many people are involved in it. Another specific thing: glass and plastic bottles. Maybe there isn't one in the room, I can say that maybe there wasn't a man born who didn't meet the shocking pollution we see, and one of the reasons for that is that these bottles are in our daily lives. Obviously, we need to think about how we can start these collections and redemption systems, and Parliament has also adopted a bill on the placing of this on the market. We also do not need to debate the key issue of the cleanliness of our rivers. In this connection, the cleaning of the Danube, the Tisza, and, more precisely, the cleaning of the artifacts are a huge task, and I must say that we have a very serious debate here with neighbouring countries on a case by case basis, because unfortunately the culture, let us say, is not the same everywhere. It can also be seen that without involving the players in the economy, we cannot be successful on this path, so when we launch a renewable energy programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, we are on the right path again, and this is not only the right way, but also 32 billion HUF support. It is a very kind gesture, but it is very appropriate to plant ten trees after each newborn, and if this is a message to the future, then I think it is a tangible signal for everyone. [[9.20]] We need to think about the appearance of electric cars, the use of them. I personally had the opportunity to hand over a speed charger, a lightning charger in the constituency. Again, they indicate that we are protecting and protecting our environment. But I could also tell you about the Green plus program or the installation of smart meters. So all I can say is that the government is committed to the cause and is helping it with concrete measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Varju, Member of the DK Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. In light of today's dramatic data, it is difficult to find a more topical case than the case of stopping a coronal virus epidemic. The World Health Organisation recommends that an epidemic be considered to be controlled if the percentage of positive tests carried out per day does not exceed 5 per cent. Well, on 9 September the last situation in Hungary was this positive. And if you take into account the seven-day sliding average of daily fluctuations, you look at their positive ratio, the last time on September 3, this figure was below 5 percent. However, today the daily rate was three times higher than the WHO recommendation, and on 13 October it was 14.4 percent. We're going to test three times as much as the WHO recommendation said by a secretary-of-state government propagandist who doesn't know the difference between three times as many and a third, or he's lying. In the meantime, the number of fatalities has exceeded 1,000. So we could hardly deny that the plague had escaped, and now it has completely slipped out of the hands of the government. And unfortunately, we're not over the toughest time yet. Since the beginning of the epidemic, the Institute for Health Measurement and Evaluation in Washington, Washington, has calculated that, in the event of a continuation of the current trend, the number of fatalities could reach 12 500 by the end of the year. And the trend has nothing to change at this point, because the government is only willing to take false measures to deal with the epidemic. Such a pretense is the border lock, which is supposed to prevent the virus from being restocked from abroad. But the virus has been here in Hungary for over six months. What do you need supplies? Tens of thousands of infected are spreading, including those who have never crossed the border. Therefore, the quarantine of people coming from abroad is only a whiff, and it does not provide any protection against infection. The virus also doesn't know the clock, it spreads before 11 o'clock and after 11 o'clock. So if the catering clubs can be open at all, then there is absolutely no need to set a closing hours at 11:00 p.m. The mandatory closing time is just like the border lock. You have to be familiar with the idea: without testing, these measures are useless, because the spread of the epidemic can only be stopped by separating and separating the carriers of the virus as soon as possible. They either send everyone home to their apartment indiscriminately, or they test, isolate, and treat those with positive test results, and they track down the people they've been in contact with, and they test them. There's no full lock-in or mass testing on the third road. And even this choice will not last forever. If the epidemic crosses a level, it'll be a complete lockdown. So not only did they spend 2 billion forints on the folk debauchery called the national consultation because anyone could have told you for free: all normal people want the country to work, but also because mass testing and contact research are a prerequisite for our lives. But you refuse to do it, and sooner or later, the country will be paralyzed. That is why we initiated the referendum to allow everyone to pass the free coronal virus test, but by the way of the puppeteers of the state institutions, you are preventing this, but we are not going to let it go. Dear House, I just told you that the government's pretense measures are just for show. However, this is still a benign interpretation, since the early closing of entertainment places, and the blocking of the entry of foreigners by a border lock, are ruining hotels. The Prime Minister's family and circle of friends prefer to expand in tourism and hotels. We remember the advertising company whose most profitable activity was banned by law, because the major contractor associated with you could not buy it, and then, by removing the restriction, you could serve the Fidesz propaganda. If you are preparing at the same time, you will not only leave people alone in the epidemic, but you will use the epidemic as an excuse to enrich their health and their lives and buy companies that will be destroyed in this way. And that's what they call a mugging.
u2020-10-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There seem to be additional levels of political paranoia. According to DK, Fidesz invented the coronal virus epidemic and created it to buy companies. Honourable Member, we would expect greater responsibility from a Member of Parliament. The speech you've made here in the last five minutes tells us a lot of things, but it's not about taking responsibility, it's not about making responsible decisions, it's about a party political blindler. He refuses to take into account anything that is real, but only his political impulses guide his words. So you'd open the borders, open up every place after 11:00 a.m., and you think asking people's opinions is completely unnecessary, and you think it's even debauchery. Both the Fundamental Law and our major economic measures, as well as our position on immigration, and the main lines of protection against the coronal virus epidemic have also been developed by asking people. We believe it is a democracy that people, in addition to the four-year elections, have the opportunity to intervene in what happens in the country, and then we in Parliament adopt the laws that people say and ask for. Honourable Congressman, There's more than one way to control the corona virus that you listed here. I don't know why you think only and only you know what can and can be done in this country, and those who spend a lifetime researching viruses and epidemics and working in the medical office are not competent; they only and only those working in the centre of DK know what to do in an epidemic situation, and those who are epidemiological experts, and who have even obtained scientific degrees, and control the defense, they don't know what to do about it. How am I supposed to say it here? a high school of political pride and conceit. Honourable Congressman, You said that testing more would definitely reduce the spread of the coronal virus. Let's see what's going on in Hungary. In Hungary, testing is free and wide for everyone who exhibits the symptoms of the coronal virus or who have close contacts with an already certified infected person. That's why we've done hundreds of thousands of tests over the last few months. About similar other countries have testing protocols, and this is in line with WHO recommendations. Even in Klubrádió and 168 Hours, the head of the WHO office in Budapest, Hungary, said this, where you may read these news better. But if you look at Germany and Italy, for example, which test in the same way, if you look at it as a proportion of the population, you see that one is in the 16th place of epidemiological statistics and the other is in the 25th place, and there is a huge difference with the same testing. Austria and Sweden are ranked 18th and 17th in proportion to the tests, while 12th and 24th in proportion to the deaths. France and Latvia are in the same place, 14th and 15th in proportion to the tests, and 2nd and 23rd in proportion to the deaths. So you are disproved by one thing: reality and facts. What you're saying is there's a part of what's important. We also consider testing important for people with symptoms and close contacts. But don't say that if, say, between France and Latvia, where the test rates are similar, there is such a huge difference in proportion to death, then this alone could slow the spread of the epidemic. We need a great deal of action to slow down the spread of the epidemic. You here in Parliament have attacked all such measures, in which a vote has taken place, they have not been voted in favour. For example, that the government should have a quick opportunity to decide, but instead called for a dictatorship across Europe. But as it turned out from a momentary internal video, they knew perfectly well that this was not an absolute dictatorship building, and Hungary operates under the rule of law. They acknowledge this in their own internal forums, but when they leave the borders of the country, they are already calling for dictatorship, even though this video shows that they are fully aware that what they are saying is false. [[9.30]] But let me give you some examples, other countries, against which Hungary defends more effectively. France: more than 32,000 infected people per day, over 9,000 in hospital care, half of the ICU bed has a coronal virus patient, 17 percent positive tests in Paris, you said 5 percent that it would be ideal, 17 percent in Paris! Italy: Milan, Naples's hospitals are critically saturated, daily records are set with thousands, 7,000 new infections, in one week the number of infected in Italy doubled in one week. [[Dr. László Varga takes over his notary seat.]] In London, the number of infected people increased from 116 thousand to 224 thousand in a week, and new epidemic hospitals had to be set up. The situation in Germany is critical in 30 regions. In Belgium, which has a population of 11 million people like Hungary, you have said that the number of people who have died in Belgium has exceeded 1,000; in Belgium the number of tens of thousands; in the same country, ten thousand are dead. And you say that Hungary is defending poorly, and would you follow the example of Belgium or the rest, honourable Member? In Belgium, the number of people who died increased by 96 percent in one week, and the number of people who were infected by 89 percent per day. In Slovakia, the percentage of positive tests is above 10 percent; you said there should be 5 percent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And there is still a list of countries that are experiencing very serious difficulties. Let us be glad that, thank God, we face less difficulties in Hungary every day! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I didn't want to stop you from speaking with one voice about everything you thought was important, but I think that at other times you should try to keep up with everyone, including you, on speaking time. From the MSZP Group, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why is the birth of a child a sin? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-20-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The story is never about technique, but always about man... success is not about the test tube, it's not about the computer, it's about the soul of people. It's more important that they get their faith back, their optimism. Professor Kaali said that. Today, 4-5 percent of the children born in Hungary are born through a flask program, and we are talking about 4-5 thousand Hungarian children. I would not like to repeat this weekend again what has been done by Bishop Veres. I think it must be said that today, both in Hungary and in the world, when we talk about the fact that the first flask baby in Hungary has already been 32 years, and the first flask baby born in the world has already been 42 years, then everyone must work with every means to give as much support as possible to these families, because we are talking about two hundred thousand barren couples in Hungary, and we must not even hurt their souls for these people, and I add, for the children who came into this way. You may find it odd that we disagree on many things opposition and pro-government representatives and ministers, but I would like to thank Minister Katalin Novák very quickly for her reaction and for protecting this programme in Hungary, protecting these families and protecting these children. Let me say in this connection, as a socialist party representative, that we need to pay more attention today in Hungary to how we can today protect mothers in Hungary, the mothers who are pregnant right now, for the moment. Even the government's CDC experts believe that Covid's control is slowly slipping out of the hands of the authorities. On the map of Europe, Hungary is now one of the most infected countries, and in addition, Officer General Muller Cecília admitted in the days that medicine does not know the effect of Covid on fetuses, nor do they know how much more of mothers are exposed to the epidemic. The only thing we know is that medicine has already observed that premature birth is a high risk in the event that the mother catches the Covid virus. Therefore, yesterday I presented a resolution proposal to Parliament asking the government to take the necessary measures so that we can protect the mothers and the unborn children in Hungary as much as possible, and I hope that there will be no contradiction on the part of pro-government politicians. Our proposal for a decision states that if a mother decides to fear for her child and her own life, she should be able to go home, whether to work at home or home, but if not, we should not send her on sick leave, because we know very well that sick is a lower income, but that the government should set a 100 percent absence fee for a few ten thousand mothers who want to protect their own life and the life of their fetus. Now parents are at the greatest disadvantage because of the coronal virus when children are sent home as contact persons in kindergartens or schools. We know very well that one of the biggest problems is that because of the spring period, parents are no longer able to use their freedom. Let these mothers stay at home without having to go on sick leave with their children, but also receive a 100 - percent absence fee. I propose in this proposal for a resolution that we pay particular attention to our mothers, that we start testing them continuously, so that we do not have data in Hungary like today, when we heard that a 39-year-old countryman died, or last week, when a 20-year-old young man died, we should not get to the point of having to report this! The most important thing is to protect our mothers, protect our unborn children, and one of the most important steps is to keep these mothers under constant testing with the involvement of the protective services of the pediatricians, so that we can best protect them. And the best way to protect them, and I hope that this resolution proposal will be supported by pro-government politicians if these mothers [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We can keep it at home with a 100 percent absence fee to protect their health and children's health. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2020-10-20-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say to you that in the first wave Hungary has been excellently defensive, health care has been prepared for the second wave, so everyone, the mothers and everyone can expect us to be able to protect it from the virus, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this is the case. I regret that the Member has joined the false statements on the left in the second half of her comment on the country's infection. But as far as the original question is concerned, honourable Member, we are today in favour of the birth of all the children who have longed and taken responsibility in Hungary. We know that there are difficult situations in life when help is needed, and the birth of desired children is such a situation. I would like to inform you and the Parliament that we have doubled the source of the flask programs compared to the support of your government, the former left-wing governments, and that we have facilitated and eased the couples in this situation by other measures. This allows for multi-stage assistance. Investigation and artificial insemination are free of charge, i.e. funded by the National Health Insurance Fund Manager in the event of intervention by a service provider with a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund Manager. In contrast to the previous five supported IVF treatments, from 2017 the National Health Insurance Fund Manager will support five IVF cycles for the birth of the first child, while for the additional children a further four to four cycles can be used with public funding. On 1 October 2019 the National Human Production Institute was established. As a professional methodological institute, it has national competence to develop and disseminate new methods and uniform protocols, to communicate with fertility centres. [[9.40]] In addition, as of February 1st of this year, there will be a 100 per cent social security allowance for the medicines used in the flask program, which will be available free of charge to couples who try to use the flask program. In addition, the performance volume limit has been abolished. We have increased the number of state-reserved fertility treatment institutes, so as of this year 12 will be active in the country. There is such a centre in Debrecen, Győröt, Kaposvár, Pécs, Tapolca, and two in Szeged. Listening to professional organisations, we have established a Healthcare Professional Directive, which, on the basis of modern principles, ensures the location of the various investigative steps and the appropriate procedures. So far, we have been able to do much to make sure that fertility couples have less time to wait for examination and intervention. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2017, you said, I quote, that those who are struggling with this problem deserve the greatest respect and take on the psychological and physical pain as well as the financial burden. From what I have said, it is clear that we are working to alleviate these burdens every day. Our goal is that every desired, planned child can be born in Hungary. We can still rely on couples who have fertility problems in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-20-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We've been waiting for this for 10 years from the Jobbik Group? Mr Zoltán Magyar applied before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. What the Fidesz promises is going to sound like this promise so many times. For example, in the case of families of fishermen who, according to the Parliament's decision, suffered serious damage, their profession ceased and their livelihoods ceased. And then they were promised that, since they came to this situation in the course of the Parliament's decision, they would be compensated, at least their assets would be taken over by the state and then used for other purposes, such as national parks, and they would also be provided with work. In fact, I could ask four different ministries this question, because four ministers, their state ministers, have promised them the possibility of compensation over and over again, and even twice in government information in recent years, and they have lied to their eyes all the time. And we have now come to the point that, in practically vain, those involved have protested, even though they have been in meetings in various ministries, their fate has not been resolved to this day. It is important to stress that we are not criticising the decision itself, as the Jobbik fraction has also supported the priority of fishing in natural waters. There are several reasons for this, obviously economic reasons, many more citizens who live in this hobby. At the same time, we have already said that if this stays that way and there is no other option for ecological selection fishing at least, then disaster awaits our waters. This is currently taking place, supported by a number of experts, which I have also made known to you in writing. However, let's say we could have made it possible not to lose their life, their livelihood, but, say, to lead fishing out of Hungary on an outgoing basis. But as I said, unfortunately, all these are false promises. On February 28th, they received their last official request, and since then they have not been honoured with any reply. If they have met them, they have played only for the delay, which I think is why the five years end this year, and I think the members of the government are counting on a statute of limitations, and they will not have to legally give them their right, and they will not have to be compensated. We find this infinitely mean. I cannot believe that the great Fidesz, the great Hungarian government, is unable to look 170 families in the eye and tell them honestly how they will be compensated; if so, when and by what amount; if not, they could boldly, manlylyly tell them not to deceive them any longer, because then, for example, situations that have already occurred, a tragedy where this uncertainty, this insecurity has driven a fisherman to suicide, and countless families have otherwise been destroyed, as I have already said. What has happened since then, perhaps as the latest news, is that yesterday, a repeated telephone inquiry was answered to one of the parties in the Ministry of Justice that they were denied their application and then slammed on the phone. So since February 28, that's all that's happened, a hung-up phone; no official response has been received. Why don't you tell them that they have no intention of reimbursing them, so they made promises earlier? It is not a big line from a budgetary point of view, Mr State Secretary, but it is about the livelihood and everyday safety of those 170 families. Not to mention that the jobs promised to them to continue to be employed in a similar job, within the framework of nature conservation or national parks, have not actually been realised. So, so much for what the Fidesz promises, that's how it's gonna be. And from here we can turn to today's topic, as I have similar comments on the Family Farms Act. Well, it turns out that what the Fidesz promised wasn't gonna happen. I look forward to your honored and meaningful response. For real now, Mr. Secretary, be honest. Tell me, frankly, between the walls of this House, why these families have not yet received what they have been promised, and yet how do they imagine that 170 families' legitimate needs are being ignored and constantly lying to their faces through four ministries. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-10-20-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-19	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member...
u2020-10-20-20	Secretary of State, your name hasn't been published yet. I'd like the technical staff to take a look at Mr. Secretary's horseshoe changer. [[For signal:]] It's good now, yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-10-20-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, At the time when the draft law on fishing and fishing was submitted to Parliament, the survey was carried out that in Hungary there were actually 170 fishermen who were doing this kind of activity in the natural waters, or who were still doing it, and a significant part of these families were a generational family, so it was not only then that they started this activity, but they had already done this activity for several generations. But since we also knew and now I don't want to say either the location or time or the name of the fisherman, although I didn't give rise to this tightening up, unfortunately I have to say that in countless cases, in countless places, we have encountered cases where undersized, young, absolutely non-marketable fish were sold on different local markets by different fishermen. In itself, I think it's an unfortunate situation. Of course, this is just my personal example. At the same time, it must be said that I live in the triangle of the Tisza and the Körös, and I was approached by fishermen several years ago, and they told me their problem. At the same time, we also know that this law is practically an opportunity for fishermen to manage these waters. At the same time, it has been offered to fishermen to engage actively in fishing organisations in these waters. Now, here's the problem... [[Zoltán Magyar intervenes.]] Allow me, I didn't interfere, Your Honour. Here came the problem, that these fishing associations, where the fishing law was delegated, were not very concerned with the fact that no one was, but they were not very concerned with these fishermen, because, due to the personal experience I mentioned earlier, they knew that unfortunately some of these fishermen had worked in the forbidden way, of course, and they had the opinion of these people that they were not expected to be able to do so in this new line of work. I have another ingredient. About two weeks ago, I think tomorrow will be two weeks or three weeks ago, so somehow, I was personally approached by a fishing team from Szolnok, the Körösek region, Martély and Szeged, so this trial is still under way, I would just like to say to you. They have come to me in a completely different light, in a completely different way, in order to see what they already have in mind about how they should be compensated; they also know that these tools are old, they cannot be fished with them, they cannot be used, these fishing gears should not be used so to say. [[9.50]] Therefore, they came to me in a completely different way, with other thoughts, about how they could become useful members of the river care system through Mohos. What is this idea? I think that we all need to think about that, and that's nothing more than eliminating invasive species. Since we know that in these live waters, in rivers, I may say this sentence very strongly, but I must say that fish species that are contrary to today's marketable fish species have increased, so to speak, to destroy the larvae of those fish, to eat them, and the rest, to take away the living space from these fish. Therefore, this fishing team, I can say, has come with an offer that they would very much like to enter into this task, and I would help to negotiate with Motív on this issue. I think it is a solution, and the displacement of invasive species from our living waters is a long-term environmental policy issue that I think we need to deal with intensively, because we cannot lose those native species of fish so to speak, precisely because of the dwarf catfish and other predators, from these waters. So I ask for my honourable fellow Member's peace of mind and his tolerance, this trial is under way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the KDNP Group, Mr Soltész has applied for a speech before the agenda, with a double standard on the left, rather than an interest instead of a value. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 11 October, the voters, the candidate of Fidesz-KDNP, Zsófia Koncz, decided against the confused left-wing coalition. How did the left get here, how did Jobbik, a former far-right party, get here? It is worth listening to some old quotes about this, and I would say the sequel. Ferenc Gyurcsány said this a few years ago: The Democratic Coalition is the only party in the Hungarian Parliament that refuses to cooperate with Jobbik in any way. We do not support any better initiative, we do not go to public debate with them. It was also interesting to see the thoughts of the former Jobbik spokesperson, what he said about Ferenc Gyurcsány:. If in Hungary the accountability and accountability of the guilty people really worked, Ferenc Gyurcsány could have delivered his annual speech at one of the safest prisons or prisons in the country. We also listened to and heard in Parliament what Márton Gyöngyösi said here. Later, he became a Member of the European Union Parliament, otherwise the EU Left did not speak out against him. It would be time for him to say in connection with such a conflict that we will assess how many people of Jewish origin live here, and especially in the Hungarian Parliament and government, who pose a certain national security risk to Hungary, said Márton Gyöngyösi. The mayor Gergely Christmas has responded to these words before, but later on, as he has said: "There are still Nazis in the party, only now they are not active, because they are now forbidden to practice their Nazism. On Lajos Jobbik Simicska's stolen money, he campaigned that he was an anti-racist party. The Nazis are gone? Do you like commies yet? Nothing's important now? No value on the left, just interest? No justice, just a double standard? On September 21st, in his usual yelling, rowdy speech, Mr.Péter James said to Prime Minister: "On October 11th, the rejoinder will come, fellow Members. There's gonna be a starfall. On that day, people will judge you, and I have a little pleasure in the judgment of the poorest county in the country, Borsod. On that day, we Borsodians will launch an avalanche that will bury once and for all that madness called Fidesz-two thirds. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, On the evening of October 11th, we saw the face of Peter James, and we saw the supporting officer László Varju behind him, the messenger of Gyurcsány, who supervised what Peter James said, whispered to him, dictated to him. The people chose to do so, and they chose to do so because they rejected the whole left-wing alliance that completely reversed the earlier sentences, and the people who have abused each other as parties have completely fallen apart. It doesn't matter to the left, so it doesn't matter to Jobbik that the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány was lying in its place earlier, it doesn't matter to Jobbik and the left that Ferenc Gyurcsány kidnapped young people and beat them to death and continued his policy. Nor did it matter to Jobbik that the economic policy of Ferenc Gyurcsány ruined the country, indebted it, took away a month's pensions and wages, and that, under their government, the utility assets of foreigners were being squandered, and the cost of rent went to the roof. No matter what, Jobbik, the Judaist, Jobbik, who wants to put Gyurcsány in prison, who is trying to list Jewish representatives, is constantly abusive of Gypsyism. Nothing matters on the left but money and power, no matter where it comes from or who it comes from. You can come from Soros, you can steal electricity, you can come from the savings of the former Budapest leadership, but now you can share money from one of the biggest corruption cases in the European Union, metro 4. Well, they didn't want any of this from people from Borsodi, Tokaj, Lucky, Tiszaújváros and the neighborhood. Let the right-wingers, together, wave the brown flags in the colors of the rainbow, and continue to sell them with goosebumps on a groin, and sometimes, Peter James, party president, look back and see what music Ferenc Gyurcsány sent him, his supporting officer, László Varju, to direct him from! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Indeed, in recent times, there have been several parliamentary and municipal elections on which the united left, the united opposition, played badly, the ruling parties were very well, and it is worth drawing conclusions from this, because the construction that emerged in these elections from the side of the left-wing opposition will, no doubt, remain with us until 2022. It can be seen from these elections and the results achieved in these elections that the left has come together in a political alliance that is actually without principles, only with power as a goal. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Are you talking about you? There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Earlier, they were separated, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out in his speech, and indeed, for example, the left-wing opposition parties, which had attacked Jobbiko very intensively, for example, because of his anti-Semitic and racist manifestations, quite rightly, but this time it was no longer a problem to stand next to an anti-Semitic, racist and small-people candidate, and otherwise Jobbik did not have the moral problem of being sided with the politicians and political forces against which Jobbik was originally organized as a political movement. I think it is not by chance that very few things happen in politics by accident, it is not by chance that a coalition without such principles, from right-wing extremes to left-wing extremes, did so badly. [[10.00]] It is clear from the outcome of the interim election in the Szerencs centre, mentioned by the Secretary of State, that in its proportions there were far less support for this coalition than in the past, and obviously not independently, but in this context, the parties of the government have never been trusted by voters in this proportion. It can be seen that this left-wing opposition is organised by Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Democratic Coalition. In the interim elections in Szerencs it was also proven that Jobbik is actually imagining itself in this cooperation as a basic organization of the Democratic Coalition. The Democratic Coalition has a youth organization on this side. It's called Momentum. I think one of the biggest scandals in Hungarian public life is connected to this political movement that has been formed recently. Your MEP has also made two statements that I believe are insufferable. One is that, unfortunately, the Hungarian Government is right when it criticizes Brussels for double standards and when it asks the head of the institution of the European Union to apply equal standards, and that the rule of law is indeed used in a legal system rather than in a political system, and it has also been said that, although you knew precisely that there was no dictatorship in Hungary in relation to the protection of the coronal virus epidemic, you did, however, with a view to power at home and abroad, claim to do the opposite. Your party president, the leader of the Jobbik party, has an inexorable responsibility in this regard. Remember, when he was talking about coronation here, while, as he is saying in the video, he knew exactly that what they were saying was simply not true. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: So are you!]] Without principles and vision in politics, long-term successes and results cannot be achieved. In this sense, the goal certainly does not justify the means. A political force that wants to build a country can be successful, and it wants to help the safety and economic conditions of people living in cities, villages. On today's opposition side, this insight, this ancient knowledge, is not visible. Power isn't a goal, it's a tool to serve people. I ask the opposition side to never forget that. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-20-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Böröcz applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group entitled "Our current affairs" before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There are many people of different motivations and values sitting in the benches of Parliament, and so many people of different situations, occupations and thinking live in Hungary today, but I am sure that the family of the vast majority of those sitting here and 99 percent of the Hungarian people is the most important and we would do anything for them. As a young father, I am well aware that raising children is not only a cloudless joy but also a hard work. But I think I can say, on behalf of all parents, that there is nothing more beautiful than honest baby food, and that there is no greater feeling than their unconditional love. Real joy, happiness takes time and work. This is also true of the family, so our goal is not to solve all problems instead of people, but to help them get along more easily in everyday life. For a civilian government, family is important not only at the individual level, but also as a determining unit of the community and as a pledge of the nation's future. Therefore, there is a very serious difference between left and right in terms of the scale and method of supporting families. The repeated saying of the left is to increase the benefits of the right to the subject, such as family allowances, and to be generous. They did that before 2010. Yes, but they usually forget to add that in the meantime, tax relief for families with one and two children and regular child protection support have been abolished. And under the Gyurcsány governments, the price of energy was increased fifteen times, which put families in an extremely difficult position, and this is just the tip of the iceberg. The difference in approach is the benefit of benefits under the right of the subject. If the children's desire for families depended solely on the amount of money, for example, in Germany or Austria, the number of children to be born would not continue to decrease. So the solution is not only concrete material support in our approach, but also the appreciation of families in our everyday life, the recognition and support of their efforts, so that they are motivated and, not least, encouraged to work. But what does that mean in practice? Our home creation programme launched in 2015 has now been expanded with a number of elements; most recently, with the support of home renovation, which can be requested from 1 January for families with children, up to HUF 3 million. The State will take over half of its renovation costs and thus help families with children and contribute to the improvement of the construction sector with this measure. It is also a recent innovation that the government will reduce the VAT on the sale of newly built homes from 27 percent to 5 percent from 1 January, and those family members who use the CSOK can claim the VAT of 5% and even obtain their homes free of charge. As of 1 January 2021, the government will extend the credit moratorium for families with children for a further 6 months, which will also be a major help. In terms of the size of the aid, we can say that we are currently one of the best in the European Union in proportion to GDP. As I mentioned earlier, the subsidies are linked to work with some exceptions, and this is also possible for Hungarian families, since during the Gyurcsány government there were 3.7 million jobs in Hungary, and today there are more than 4.5 million people working. But if we go back a little in time, we can list a number of measures that did not even appear as an experiment of thought during the government of the Hungarian left. But let's also look at specifics. Since 2010, we have introduced, among other things, the extended family tax allowance, the first-wives' benefit, the freedom to buy children, the benefit of family home creation, the CSOK, grandparents' children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's allowance, the personal income tax exemption for mothers with four or more children, the car purchase allowance for large families, the remission of student loans, the free language exam, the free KRESZ course, the umbilical cord program for supporting Hungarian families abroad, free textbooks in public education, free catering, and a significant increase in the baby care fee, the family. I could tell you a long time, but in closing I can say that as long as Fidesz-KDNP gives the Hungarian parliamentary majority, support for families remains one of the most important goals. Thank you for listening. [[Move. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-20-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would ask all of you to take their place in the utmost silence, so that the State Secretary's response can be heard without delay. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds to Mr László Böröcz's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for summing up the measures that the civilian government has taken since 2010 to help families. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. Since 2010, we have increased the amount of support for families by two and a half times. In addition, we are at the forefront of European comparison, and we are really helping to get home with a home creation programme, and we have also launched a family protection action plan. However, I think that at a time like this, it is worth looking back at what measures had been taken by previous left-wing governments in the crisis at that time, what crisis management had been and what crisis management was today. [[10.10]] Before 2010, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments always remembered austerity when there was a crisis. I would just like to list a few of their actions in headlines: before 2010, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments took a month's wages from the public sector, took a month's pension from the elderly, taxed the family allowance, raised the retirement age, increased the VAT, and shortened the duration of the child; thus they put Hungarian people and Hungarian families in a difficult position and put them in a vulnerable position. On the other hand, the civilian government does not abandon the Hungarian people or the Hungarian families in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. Some measures are just: we are going to rebuild the 13th month pension, we are going to put in place the largest increase in medical wages so far, we have introduced it and today we are going to extend the credit moratorium here in Parliament by voting, which also helps a lot of families with children, we have put in place job protection wage subsidies, and we are going to grant companies an interest-free job retention loan. It is clear from this list that while former left-wing governments have only introduced restrictions, we help Hungarian people, Hungarian families by all means. Dear Parliament, In recent years, we have done everything in our power to help families have children, raise children, and create homes. For example, in 2015, we introduced the family home creation discount, commonly known as the CSOK, which was extended in several steps. I will give you just one example: until August 2020, the CSOK was used by 151 thousand families, with a total value of HUF 476 billion. This means that we have been able to help 632,000 Hungarians live here. The government doesn't abandon families in an epidemic. As you have said, we are implementing the greatest home creation programme of all time, which increases the standard of living of families, boosts the economy and creates new jobs, so it is good for families, good for employers and good for workers. To this end, we re-introduce the VAT of 5% for the purchase of new apartments, even the VAT of 5% for families with children using CSOK. We also support the renovation of the apartments for families with children by refunding 50% of the costs for up to HUF 3 million. And according to yesterday's announcement, the purchase of both new and used apartments will be free of charge for families with children who take the CSOK. We, honourable Member, Honourable Parliament, are also working for the families of Hungary in the epidemic situation, and we want to ensure that every family with children and children has a secure roof over their heads, and we thank you for your help so far. All families with children can still count on us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can start making decisions in the announced time. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you so much for making it possible. Let's get on with the schedule. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. I would ask my fellow Members to press one of the buttons of their voting machines. [[It's happening.]] 143 Members present, 55 are absent, the Parliament has a quorum. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. It's 10:15. The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, and the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic, of the other part, and the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, on the signing and provisional application of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Morocco, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12880/5, and T/12880/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/12880/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/12880/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, It follows that T/10953 on the amendment of certain laws in order to improve the protection of victims of violent crime against a serious person who is in violation of family members' rights. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10953/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and T/10953/6 of the report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10953/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/109537. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 165 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that T/13295 on transitional measures to stabilise the situation of certain priority social groups and businesses with financial difficulties is now in place. Final vote of bill No 1. [[10.20]] I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13295. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the room.]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We'll get back to work. We're going to have a general debate. With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to my fellow Members in this Chamber to take greater care to comply with the requirements of the pandemic situation. They may also be monitored by the factions through the internal television transmission chain. In each case, the chairman will also indicate the name of the next Member following the speaker. Dear Parliament, Following up is the 1993 III on social management and social benefits. Act 1 and LXVI of 2019 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020 General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/13259. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The roots of the village and folklore system date back to the 1980s, when the village dismantling started by the then party state leadership and otherwise supported in an ideological sense and, in fact, even when the villages with serious problems were disbanded. In return, a village rescue operation began. A number of research has already revealed that there are abandoned settlements where there are still people living there who are willing to solve the problems of the settlement, feeling the problems of the settlement to themselves. They were named at the time when this system was launched as a village caretaker. Later, at a conference on this subject held in early 2,000 years, the following ideas were expressed about this system. In addition to social, health, economic, cultural and folklore tasks, villagers should also be able to cope in communal and even mental areas in some sense. They are, in fact, a lower-level ombudsman system. The mayor in a village is smart, and the village manager is the heart of the village. Its task is similar to drowning, hauling ashore, breathing through the mouth in the hope of breathing. This is what the villager does to the village, hoping that the mistrust between the people will run out, disappear, let up, and the village will start to function as a community. Dear House, The government is committed to the development of the countryside, the maintenance and further development of the village and folklore service. This commitment is also reflected in the program of the Hungarian village, which started in 2019 and affects more than 30 percent of the population, more than 90 percent of the settlements, and 3 million people directly. The most important objective of the Hungarian village is to increase the population retention power of settlements of less than 5 thousand inhabitants, to strengthen the life form of small settlements, and to help rural housing. With the introduction of this programme, a unique, targeted government intervention was carried out in settlements with a permanent population of 5,000 people and below. The basic starting point and purpose of this programme were to halt or even reverse the population loss that started in most of Hungary's small settlements. In addition to improving local quality of life applications and the renovation of the lower roads, the Hungarian village program also includes a village home-building discount, i.e. the village CSOK. Rural settlements are suffering from social problems to varying degrees, but in addition to economic problems. In many respects, the difficulties of small settlements are proportional to the low number of inhabitants and to the decline in population. In the life of these small settlements, the village and folklore services are of particular importance, which alleviates these difficulties and contributes to the improvement of the quality of life there. Based on our practical experience and the success of the Hungarian village programme so far and the related feedback, we believe that further expansion of the service is appropriate and justified, and this in itself will facilitate the achievement of the objectives set out in the programme. [[10.30]] In August 1990 this program was launched on the proposal of the Village Development Society in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. This has been growing ever since. On the basis of the data of 18 August 2020, there are 1160 village care services and 493 staff services in the service register at national level, and as a result of this expansion, as a result of the expansion, village and material workers form the basis of the social care system in villages and outskirts, in fact in many settlements or parts of settlements or outskirts, are actually the only services available at home. The purpose of this service is to mitigate the disadvantages of small villages, outskirts, other indoors and rural areas in accordance with the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act, to provide access to services, public services and to certain basic services, and to help meet individual needs at Community level. We propose that this function be extended further, and this would in fact be a further step towards the improvements that have been made in recent years, since, for example, the task has been further extended from 1 January 2020 to alleviate the disadvantages arising from the difficulties of Community transport. Among other things, village and material workers provide access to health care, general medical care, transportation to other health care facilities, drug substitution. They provide for the transport of children in kindergarten, school age, and other child transport tasks. They contribute to the provision of food, home assistance, community and social information and access to basic market services that may be lacking in these smaller settlements. Dear Parliament, The government has decided to expand the village management service, as a result the service will be available from 1 January 2020 to settlements of less than 800 inhabitants and from 1 January 2011 to settlements of less than 1000 inhabitants. The Government also decided to increase the budgetary support needed to provide village and material services. On this basis, it will also receive a HUF 4 million HUF 250 000 per year to provide village and folklore services from 2020 onwards. According to the Act on Hungary's central budget for 21st year, the amount of support for village and folklore services will increase to HUF 4 million 479 thousand per service year. The bill before you proposes to introduce a settlement frame of 1000 inhabitants from 1 January 2020, which would open up the possibility of using the service in more than 200 settlements compared to the previous one. In the event of the adoption of the bill, a maximum of HUF 958 million of HUF 506 000 will be required for the purpose of providing village and folklore services in 2021, as well as for the purchase of vehicles, up to HUF 3 billion of HUF 210 million in one-off expenditure. With regard to the budgetary impact, the amounts presented were determined on the basis of the total number of municipalities acquiring the entitlements, thus showing the maximum budgetary impact by, of course, not all municipalities may benefit from the service. Under the rules in force, village and material care can only be continued in the case of initial training as defined in the legislation. The training is organised by the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection, the training is carried out by itself or can be entrusted to other institutions on the basis of the legislation currently in force. The bill would transfer the organisation of these village and folklore trainings to the task of the county municipality. The purpose of the amendment, which was also intended to enter into force on 1 January 21, is to enable the county authorities to carry out the training themselves in the framework of the contract of assignment with the instructor, or, as the rules so far have allowed the other institution, to entrust the task to another institution by concluding a training agreement. The application for training is subject to the application fee, and this fee will be the revenue of the county authorities, so it is expected that the new task will not require significant additional resources for the county authorities. Organisational tasks remain the responsibility of DG Social and Child Protection to register participants' applications, issue certificates and certificates, given that training data are important both for central sector management and are available in this way. The educational programme should be consulted by the National Association of County Local Governments. The government's aim is to improve the quality of life of people in more settlements than currently, in the long term, by launching the village and folklore service and extending the service. The adoption of the proposal would allow the villagers and villagers to start their work in more than 200 settlements, so to speak the heart of the village. So I would like to ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Secretary of State perfectly described all the intentions of the Government now under the 21st century. One of the social services of rural lifestyles, lifestyles and access to services in the 18th century. Allow me to say from my own experience how, in 1990, as elected representatives of the local government, we faced all the demands of a grassroots organisation, local authorities, how we could really provide the people who live there with a service that they deserve. Perhaps it has not been said in the expozee that car purchases are one of its alphas and omegas, since access to these services must be either transported somewhere, or the goods or goods not available must be delivered there. So it is, in any case, the acquisition of a car that I think is very important beyond vocational training, because a social service provider will operate with its documentation and professional background. In addition, I remember that at the time we started with a 1300 Lada station wagon, and we couldn't wait to buy a minivan of 9 people from a tender source for our small establishment, and at that time only 600 people had the term, which is now added to the modified village of the law, and after 800 people in 2021, the number of inhabitants was increased to 1000 people in the round. But it is also interesting to mention that the term "démóndnok" was included on the move, as there is a larger settlement, up to five thousand people, who have the right to maintain it, because they have a farmland world, and the access to these farms, and the improvement of the quality of life of the people living there, I think, is part of the services that every Hungarian person as a rural person has the right to have as a second-class citizen. So I think that the development that has started in the area of the change of regime is still taking place, because these refinements, the adjustments to life, must be done, and at the moment this bill is an alpha and an omega of the car purchase that can be applied for under the Hungarian village programme. I think that, in the interests of rural people, the improvement of their quality of life is also necessary in the case of local governments, civil society organisations and other maintainers, in addition to returning to the county authorities a task of organizing the training of these people from the mixed service picture and profile to service providers as a radiating municipality in order to provide the highest possible level of care. I ask you to support this idea, the countryman is the same citizen as any other citizen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.40]]
u2020-10-20-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz, who is speaking from here on the platform. We'll wait for Congressman to come up here. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz enters the speaker's stand.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The aim of the bill before us is to allow municipalities with a population of less than 800 inhabitants and less than 1000 inhabitants to benefit from the services of villagers and teachers, as well as to ensure that the organisation of villagers' and villagers' training is provided by the competent county authorities at the place where the service is provided. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is moving forward on a number of points, but it also raises a number of questions. But before we discuss these in a row, let us remember the people involved in this proposal, the village and the village workers, and thank them for their sacrifices. The thanks are due to about 1,600 people who are really taking children to kindergarten, school in snow, frost, rain, often in 40 degrees, taking the needy people to lunch, medicine, taking sick people to doctors and transport them home, and getting the materials that are essential for public employment, but I could tell you more. In many places even villagers respond to requests that are not their responsibility. They do all this in Somogyland anyway, for 130-200 thousand forints. It is no coincidence, therefore, that there are so many derelicts in this profession because of low wages and great pressure, honourable Members. It is therefore necessary to further develop wages and to continue training villagers with extraordinary social skills. The selection of villagers should take into account both the educational attainment and the opinion of the village assembly, and experience shows that there would be less fluctuations in this profession. Returning to the bill, the village and folklore system dreamt up by Bertalan Kemény has been in operation for 30 years and is constantly expanding. We are currently meeting the service in 19 counties, in nearly 1,600 small settlements and in the farmland world. The village and village councils operate in the most disadvantaged settlements, the aim of the service is to alleviate the local disadvantages of small villages and outskirts due to lack of institutions; to ensure access to services, public services and certain basic services to meet basic needs. And if we want to evaluate the 30-year performance of the villagers' services on a national scale, it should be pointed out, in particular, that the connection and information opportunity has reached nearly 1,600 villages and farm areas, which has so far been unattainable to people living in these isolated settlements and settlements. The population related to the operation of the village management service increased from 600 people to 800 from 1 January 2020 as the State Secretary mentioned. However, raising the cost to 800 and 1000 persons raises several professional concerns. Undoubtedly, this amendment will allow more municipalities to participate in the system, so that more people will be able to use the services provided by villagers and villagers. But the vast majority of villagers are already overwhelmed by small settlements. Even in settlements with 600 souls, there is a demand for the work of two villagers, and as the population increases, the number of people who use the service increases in proportion. Ladies and gentlemen, This is especially true of Somogyország, Marcali, where every third resident's close relatives live and work abroad, earning a living abroad, an enormous number of elderly, single people who otherwise need help, and these villagers also provide care for them. It follows that despite the launch of a villager's service of 800 or even 1000 inhabitants, a villager is not expected to be able to meet the emerging needs. It is therefore recommended that at least two villagers operate in these settlements, between 800 and 1000 people in the future. And let's look at the second part of the proposal, which says, and I will quote this to you:. The organisation of the village care-taker's training and the training of staff is carried out by the county municipality responsible for the place of service. But why do we need to do that? The reasons for the proposal do not indicate this. This is the reason for the proposal, and I would like to quote: the organisation of the training of villagers and villagers should be referred to the role of the county municipality, taking into account the expansion of the range of users of the service. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There are some businesses who have been training for decades, and, Mr Secretary of State, in his speech as rapporteur, he has not spoken about these reasons for the change, so please answer my questions now. Were they not satisfied with the professional quality of training provided by civil society organisations and associations for decades? What makes training higher in the organisation of county municipalities? Will training be cheaper? Will the training be closer to the villagers' area of responsibility? And what about the ten-some associations, the NGOs that are now providing training, and the representatives of the villagers on the other hand? What about them in the future? Are the county authorities prepared to leave on January 1st? Is there enough experts in county councils? Dear Secretary of State, Please provide a clear and professionally substantiated answer to the questions asked, because, in the absence of this, we cannot conclude that this proposal is the next step in Fidesz's efforts to centralise for ten years now, with the aim of bringing directly to hundreds of thousands of people into political control. Mr. Secretary, if you don't, disprove it, please. Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-20-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc is next. You have the floor, please.
u2020-10-20-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since 2010, the national government and the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority have been committed to improving the quality of life of people living in Hungarian villages and small towns. The Fidesz-KDNP government aims to avoid lower quality of life and disadvantages in villages and small towns. Our aim is to stop the reduction of the population of Hungarian small settlements, which means that the villagers also have access to all the services and opportunities that are natural for the metropolitan people. In our view, to support the communities of Hungarian villages so that they can preserve their valuable rural way of life, but at the same time the XXI. The achievements of the century should not be locked away from them, an important mission. This is why the Hungarian government launched the, in which the Hungarian village programme will receive at least HUF 150 billion in support of small settlements in the 2020 budget, with various applications. This programme includes infrastructure development for small settlements and support for local communities, civil society organisations and cultural associations. [[10.50]] Last year, the government spent HUF 50 billion on small-town road development, of which road development started at 400 kilometres. In addition, a further 400 kilometres of small-town roads will be renewed in the coming period. In our Christian Democratic view, the support of communities outside the infrastructure is at least so important that Hungarian villages are not sleeping settlements, but lively community spaces, where local local patriots, cultural associations, pensioners' clubs, youth organizations, sports associations can carry out their activities in decent conditions. The budget of the village civil society fund for this purpose will be HUF 5 billion, from which civil society organisations could receive funding by tender. The Hungarian village program is also included in the village health development programme with a HUF 7 billion budget, from which medical care apartments and medical clinics are built, renewed, and medical devices are also funded. The Hungarian village program covers some 2800 settlements. Much more than 90 percent of them have applied for any element of the programme last year, and 82 percent have received support. A total of 11 thousand applications were received last year under the programme, 5500 of which received funding. However, this was not always the case, before 2010, instead of developing Hungarian villages and small settlements, there were continuous cuts and withdrawals of funds in left-wing governance. From Ferenc Gyurcsány and his friends, rural Hungary received only brutal tax increases, gas and electricity prices, restrictions, pension reductions and continuous reductions. During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, schools, general practitioners were closed in small settlements, and doctors and educators were chased out of villages. In 2007, the left closed and closed some 500 kilometres of railway lines, while in 2009 it closed 800 kilometres of railway lines. A large part of these affected small settlements. The current bill, which we have just discussed, is yet another step towards strengthening Hungarian small settlements. In order to improve the quality of life of people living in small towns, the current bill includes and encourages further expansion of the village and folklore service. According to the proposal, the village and folklore services will be available from 1 January 2021 to settlements with a population of less than 1000 inhabitants instead of villages with previous 800 inhabitants. In order to increase the efficiency of the service, the organisation of the training of village and folklore is referred by the bill to the county authorities. I also think, partly in response to my fellow Member's question, that the county authorities will perform these tasks well, that the preparation period will be sufficient for them for the rest of the year, because so far very similar, very important tasks have been effectively and effectively solved by the county authorities. I think that there are excellent county leaders in Hungary in all 19 counties, it is right to expect that the quality, as the other services are carried out by the county authorities, should also be managed, managed and organised. The KDNP faction supports the bill. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Lajos Korózs. The congressman will speak from his seat. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-20-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to begin by knowing personally the people who have physically invented this system, this structure, and I have been monitoring the birth and functioning of this system for the last thirty years. The name of Bertalan Kemény, who is a researcher and a scientist, has been mentioned here by my fellow Member Steinmetz, who was a senior colleague of the VÁTI, regional research and urbanist's institution, who raised the need to establish a village care system and a network in small settlements where there is no adequate social service or a fraction of this social service. First, in Borsod County, later in Baranya, but in the Duna-Tisza region, in Bács-Kiskun County, the villagers' services were organized, and it was the farmland world that highlighted the need to expand the scope of activities and to define villagers and villagers. As I have said, I have accompanied the creation of this service, later as a basic service, its inclusion in the scope of social law, the birth of training courses and the civil organisation that has now become a national network, all 19 counties have some form of organization, and that is right. At the time, it was suggested that we organise such a program, such activities, even outside the border, and I was able to support this far away. I still remember that we held our first meeting in Torock, not far from Cluj-Napoca, where Hungarian-speaking settlements can still be found. In my opening speech, I said that this is the simplest form of service in the world: a man and a car. Our friends, who honored us with their presence, mayors, board members, unitarian ministers, believed that this was the end of the toast or the performance, and then, of course, for three days, with the structure, we encouraged them to introduce the village caretaker service in Transylvania. Then a Unitarian minister, who, by the way, performed pastoral duties in several settlements, said that if we could do this here, he would pray our names. The following year we had the training in Torockószentgyörgy, very successfully, the Hungarian Falugondnok Association provided the professionals, and then, two years later, it was established in 15 settlements, mainly in the valley of Homoród. Anyone who knows Transylvania knows that this region has a lack of social services. I didn't bring this up because of the anecdote, but because the people who were involved in the training are very prepared people, they know the Alpha and omega of this activity, and they also operate this education and this training in a professional way. It is necessary, because this has also been said to be an extremely high turnover, because for such a small amount of money, they do not really take up the long-term occupation. A villager is the soul of the small settlement, especially where a village has ten or twelve outskirts, say, in Zala County. There's no other connection than the villager. It is no coincidence that they often choose villagers as mayors, since they are the ones who not only replace the medicine, not only take the child to music education, but also organize a community. As a result, I can support this structure and this system as far as I can go. However, I must point out that I do not understand at all why this education and training has been taken out of the hands of those who have been doing this professionally for three decades, the activity that the European Union has recognised as a European special social service activity in the mid-2000s. Expert experts from almost all Member States of the European Union have come to study this structure and this training, from Finland to Greece, from Belgium to Bulgaria. Of course, the medicine is taken to the old man in Lapland, but it is not village care, it is not sloppy, because, as I said, the villager and the sloppy son-in-law are the souls of the settlement, and they also carry out community organisation activities. Then this activity became a Hungarian Heritage Award. [[11.00]] As my fellow Members have mentioned here, they want to increase the population limit in which villagers and villagers can operate. However, my fellow Members, a villager cannot carry out more tasks than he does. So just by pushing the limit of the number of souls to 1,000, you're not going to care for more people. If a proposal had been submitted to which Mr Steinmetz also referred so that there could have been two or three villagers in one settlement, I understand. Here there are about 200 settlements with a population of between 800 and 1000 people. At the same time, I lacked in Mr. Secretary of State's exposé that compliance could be tightened up even further, because it was his own merit that he was included in the social law, it was his own merit that he became a normatively funded activity, and it is his own merit that in the planning of the budget in this section, thank God, there are more and more resources, it is all right, but in creating every new status, I do think that strict conditions must be ensured. For example, there should be a need assessment in the settlement, such as a social map, and, as I said, it should be possible for the local government over 600 to finance up to three villagers from budgetary sources when the law enters into force and is extended to 1000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, A villager, as I mentioned, can provide direct personal assistance to the same number of inhabitants in his normal working time and normative amount, no matter how many people live in the settlement, to be more precise, I say that if he has 50 people, if he has 600 people, or if he has 1000 inhabitants. The fact is that as the population increases, the number of people in the ministry increases in proportion. It follows that even though a villager's service is started by a settlement of 800 or 1000 people, a villager cannot meet the needs that arise. In settlements with 600, 800 and more inhabitants, the future villager is likely to be such a communal villager, who will continue to do the maintenance work in the settlement, not primarily for the population. Unfortunately, we have this experience. It should operate in these settlements, as I said, at least two villagers, and when issuing the operating licence, the professional tasks that need to be carried out should be very strict. As far as I know, some settlements with a population of between 800 and 1000 already have a motor vehicle, a village bus or a colleague working in a communal area on which, under the government decree, I believe they are trying to obtain some kind of wage cost. The creation of a new village management service should mean a new job, not the existing village maintenance. As I said, prior to the appointment of the village manager, it should be compulsory for the villager to convene the village assembly and the village council to give an opinion on the candidate and the village guardians present at the village assembly, and then the village manager with the largest support should be appointed by the board. The village association of the region should also be invited to the village meeting. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think that with this amendment, the application of an old good practice could be officially returned to the system, and I am confirming that this is how Bertalan Kemény once thought this service structure, and I think that we should all stick to it faithfully. Moreover, Bertalan Kemény was the man who left his house to the villager's alliance, and the training center where villagers are still professionally trained to cover almost the entire country. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. I am also curious how you reflect on these raised problems, which I have said, and I am also looking forward to, Mr Steinmetz, and I am already warning you that we will be submitting amendments, which I know can be done by 16:00 on Thursday. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President, thank you.
u2020-10-20-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, First of all huge and big-great respect for all those who are in the countryside's troubles, all the cujat-bajat...
u2020-10-20-42	Excuse me, Congressman, your microphone isn't... [[Nacsa Lawrence: It's okay!]] I do now, thank you.
u2020-10-20-43	I repeat. So it's a big, big deal for everyone who takes care of all the cuddle and trouble in the countryside, the life and pain of a small community on their shoulders. Thank you to the villagers and villagers for doing this task for virtually the minimum possible allowance. Their work may be more necessary now than ever before, because unlike what we would think of you, honourable Members of the State, or the text of the proposal that we have here before us, that the countryside is important to you, even because we know very well that the majority of your electoral base is supposed to be rural. On the other hand, and now allow me to quote the introduction of the bill literally: the Government is committed to the development of the countryside, the main tool of which is the Hungarian Village Program. Rural small settlements face varying degrees of exposure to the 21st century. The challenges of the century. The government's goal is to provide services of the same quality as in the cities in small settlements. * So you would think that you really live in the countryside, these are three beautiful sentences. The thing is, everyone reads these sentences with tears in their eyes, either for that or for that reason. The question is, what is the underlying content, what is the real goal, because, contrary to what is stated in the bill before us, the people in the countryside, if we decipher their lives with toxic, misleading propaganda, which you try to shove down their throats every day, will feel, and feel that you have left them alone, that it is only at the level of passwords and rip-off applications that it is important for you that the countryside is outside the fidesz moonyard, the national gasman's lordship and Felcsút, which is almost as if you have left them alone, ladies and gentlemen, like an Orbán Christmas tree, on which you have been clinged to from the stadium to everything in the world, only space airport is not there. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: There will be!]] That apart from the rulers, the countryside is agonizing, and let us say that you have condemned the countryside to a slow death. It is said that the government's aim is to provide services of the same quality in small settlements as in cities, which is included in the draft law. There's only one big problem, gentlemen: it's not in the context of what you're doing. While we have been remembering for decades, and perhaps today, more than once, this has been said in Parliament today, even as crocodile tears have been shed for the countryside, today railway and bus services are closed with cynical shuffles and a series of services are closed, so let's just think about postal services here. We see that there are already settlements where it is simply impossible to get to if you do not have your own vehicle. As long as billions are eliminated in the hands of the oligarchs loyal to the party and the son-in-law of the Prime Minister, and, of course, we are talking about tender money and public funds, the Hungarian countryside is dying, and public services are collapsing in front of us with your help. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] [[11.10]] Do you know what this means, fellow Members, do you know what it means? They ruin the lives of millions of rural Hungarians, pull the ground out of their feet, and take away their future. I ask you, is this your rural policy? The people living in the countryside are not given a limited or significantly worse quality than those living in large cities, if they are able to recover at all, they are not, because they are currently being destroyed, and if there is anything left, then public transport is not enough, and I think we should not talk about local government, because it is absolutely outrageous. And it's as surreal as when your government blares victory reports about the countryside as talking to a drowning man instead of real, real help that, come on, how good is the temperature of the water? You believe that the government is committed to the development of the countryside, which is a key tool and programme of which is the "Hungarian Village" programme. Compared to this, the average rural Hungarian does not see an insane amount of money in relation to your program. The programme is limited not only to the extreme, but also to the resources available, and almost everyone in the country has a story that shows that these funds are often not spent on real development. If everything stays this way, it would be worth renaming it into a national oligarch program, as a significant proportion of the money ends up in their pockets. Remember, for example, the György Simonka village on the bench of the accused took everything, everything he wanted, everything he won, and almost everything he didn't want. The smallest settlement in the district of Mezőkovácsháza won the most in that area, and you don't even believe that this was done on a professional basis, do you? You claim that one way to ensure equal opportunities is to further expand the service of village and folklore. With this, you see, we agree, this is one of his ways, no doubt. But what we say is that it's not much more than puffing, it's a hoax. However you are working with the words, you know very well, because smart people, village and folklore services are very, very important tools, especially now, but they are not a universal Swiss knife, they cannot replace state care, and unfortunately, the known figures and facts all suggest that the rate of natural weight loss in the villages is constantly higher than in the country, and on the other hand these villages are also the losers of domestic migrations, thanks to the fact that employment in villages and small villages is significantly lower than in towns. From the point of view of unemployment, this number is the multiple of it compared to the cities, especially the metropolitan cities, i.e. in the last ten years, the tangible results of propaganda, the optimism of the treasury, the education of Simonkas, and the billions of crooks are not much seen in your government's rural programme. In this respect, it is indeed very, very important to support the people who live in the villages at last, but it would be even more important to boost villages and small villages, to put an end to the near-death situation, but we cannot even see the slightest traces of it. Overall, I can say that the Democratic Coalition is also committed, of course, to the social, infrastructure, health, education and culture of people living in the countryside and small villages, and that is quite clear. The aim of the village and folklore service is to improve the social situation of people living in the settlement, to help those in need, to help solve problems in our daily lives. But they're not gods, they can't do everything, they can't. The fact that this assistance will be available in several municipalities in the future is certainly eligible, but the Democratic Coalition draws attention to the fact that there is a great deal of turnover on the track, but many of my fellow Members have already talked about it, and they are currently doing this in several villages with replacements, involving local government workers, because of the humiliatingly low wages of villagers. Their salary has not changed much since 2010, and it is said to be the lowest in the social sector, and also in the wages of those working in the social sector, we know very well, despite all propaganda and victory reports, it is deplorable, thanks to you. In addition, villagers work 24 hours a day for this salary, 7 days a week. At the same time, the Democratic Coalition draws the government's attention to the fact that this bill does not yet solve the problems of people living in small towns. In small villages, in addition to unemployment, there is a problem with distance from services, infrastructure is inadequately built, high-quality roads are lacking, in many cases at all. There is often no school in the settlements, no regular medical care. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Because you closed it!]] We know very well that doctors have been chased away, doctors who can now work there, heal in Sweden and England. Shopping, official cases are often carried out by residents in remote cities, which, on the other hand, do not have a car, find themselves in front of a number of difficulties before I have talked about it, they have to adapt to regular bus services, they have to carry their burdens home with heavy bags, even if they have not closed or reduced the bus lines to the extremes. Due to the lack of institutions, infrastructure and services, the lack of jobs, the resulting poverty, young people move away from small settlements to cities in the hope of jobs, mostly older, often sick, single old people stay in villages. After the migration of young people and job losses, the villages will, in good times, become sleeping settlements, and in worse cases they will drift to the brink of extinction. Sleeping settlements belong to a city's catchment area, and the vast majority of the population go to work in cities, return to their homes only in the evening, which is why community and social life are also declining. For this reason, the Democratic Coalition believes that a comprehensive rural development and catching-up programme is needed, but the Orbán government is only promoting the development of the settlements that are dear to it, and we know it very well. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And, of course, I can't stress this enough, in the countryside everything is covered by the dirty shadow of corruption. This is because of you, the people of the country. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-44	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-20-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome any bill that favours the countryside and which offers opportunities for small villages, and so I consider this bill to be very important. I think it's important because as a former mayor, I was the mayor of a small village, I know that village care is needed for a village as a piece of bread. We have always had trouble meeting the conditions of the social services, since the number of residents in the outskirts was wobbly, and we barely fit in to get this normative material that was vital to us. I think it was particularly good when it was raised, because it is also very, very important that, compared to the former village normative, it is much more that a settlement can now receive. I still think that villagers may be even more needed now, so during the epidemic period, and they will be needed and even more needed because the number of public workers is falling. Many of them have been employed in the labour market, and there is a layer that has already retired from these public workers, thus reducing their numbers significantly. Thus, the villager has a much greater burden in a given settlement. Its task is not only to bring medicines and take part in various other social services, even in the preparation of fires, in cooperation with domestic workers, but also to do physical work, mow or other work itself. Manfa is a village of 850 people, where we employed two people, but one could only be used officially for this purpose, so we had an official villager, and the other was a lady with a gardener's degree, who may have replaced the villager. [[11.20]] Unfortunately, it was not always possible to do this legally, because the law required that villagers be replaced by villagers only, so in this case an agreement had to be concluded with the villager of another settlement. And that wasn't good because if he was gonna replace our villager, that's where he should have been replaced. Fortunately, this has now been removed from this regulation, which I was very pleased to see, although I am no longer mayor, but I am particularly fond of the fate of small settlements. I think it might be possible to think that this number could be increased from 1,000 to 1,500 people, even to 2 thousand; of course, at 5,000 people, it is unlikely that this is necessary. Thank God, so Manfa can breathe, no more spasms on the number of inhabitants of the outskirts, but fortunately fit into this form of supply. But it's very important to think about raising the wages of the villagers. I know that their wages can be shifted somewhat, as this can be done from the norm, but the civil servant's salary, plus social plus, because they still work in social work or work of a social nature is not enough. It's very difficult to find villagers in the villages. I think it is very important for a villager to know a lot of things, and there is a growing need for this, because settlements do not always have the money to buy various services, such as water tap repair or small installation work. Therefore, it is very important for them to have an expert villager. The best thing for a real handyman is to fill this job. But the village chooses this, because the villages that are more affected by tourism, such as Orfű, or I could mention other settlements, there are other tasks of a different nature for villagers. But I think that this should be recognised financially, and I think they deserve a lot more than their current wages. Several of my fellow Members have talked about why the training site to date is being reorganized. I'd be interested in that, too. I hope it's so you don't have to travel too much for the villager. The villagers must collect credit points with various trainings. I think it's very important to train against burnout, which is very, very important. Many may even think it's funny, but it's not funny at all, because villagers can burn out in a terrible way. Returning to their wage increases, it is very important to know that we are not talking about an eight-hour job here. It may take them eight hours to do their job, but that's not always the case. It takes a great deal of dedication to do this activity for several years or even decades. I know several villagers who, for their livelihood, are forced to do various extra work this weekend. By the way, during the snow harvesting period, working hours are unlimited, just as in the case of flood preparedness. There are smaller streams in our area, and it is common for them to pour out, and there is a huge need for villagers. I agree with the two villagers and with a village manager and a deputy. Many are held back by the fact that village care courses, village care courses, are not expensive for after-schools, and many settlements cannot finance this. The village bus was also mentioned. For example, I was very happy that there was a village car. Earlier, the village was able to buy from the normative, later with the help of the ÚMVP, the New Hungary Rural Development Program, and after seven years we were able to replace the village car. This is certainly good, and it is absolutely necessary for the job to be carried out. Overall, I think that this bill, at least for me, can be supported. I think it is good, and I would like to see any other bill that will help the villages to thrive. And I would ask my fellow pro-government Members to consider raising this number of thousands to 1,500, because I am sure that would be very helpful to the other settlements as well. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-10-20-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now the first independent Member to make a statement. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-10-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Members have presented so richly the characteristics of this profession, of this problem, and have presented so richly the circumstances of both the proposal and the village work and the problems of small settlements that I do not want to repeat either of them. I'm sure I don't understand why this training needs to be centralized. I would put it in a slightly different perspective from what my fellow Members have said. On the one hand, Hungary has not only every county, but also a small microenvironment with different socialization features than in other parts of the country, 300-400 kilometers away. Not only do I say that Hungary has to live in Hungarian, but I also say that every part of Hungary has to live in the same way, because a group of people living in relatively better conditions in a small settlement in Western Hungary has other types of problems that a villager may be able to provide, as we say, in addition to the Ukrainian border, a small settlement is an extremely poor, difficult society. I therefore believe that it is absolutely important to keep the training of villagers in that environment and to emphasise what is necessary in this area for the high level of exercise of their vocation. My fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, spoke about credit points and training. This reminds me that we use credit points for the development and training of a doctor, a pharmacist and innumerable professionals, and this is basically the way to ensure that they have up-to-date knowledge and perform the services at the highest possible level, but I still think that in a highly underpaid society like the village care community, this sounds so weird. In addition, the villager may know on a professionally high level, taking these exams with the best results if he lacks one thing, his heart. The heart controls 80 percent of the village work, and not the need and the professionalism with which it is prepared. If it were up to me, we would be talking about a village program, a village manager of what is necessary. If it were up to me, I would extend the entire village care network to municipalities where there is no public transport at all. It is a fact that the most difficult social groups are in the smallest settlements, but I still do not understand why this effort is only from 800 people to a thousand, and why it was not that in ten years a rhythmic program development was made, that what is called a village should have a professional village care system, and where 2500 people already live, three or four village managers. 'Cause what are we gonna make up for? We make up for the fact that when we see in winter that the 86-year-old woman who can only fire wood doesn't smoke, and her chimney is minus 9-10 degrees outside, then there must be someone in the larger settlement who realizes that she has to go there, so that the elderly man who for some reason couldn't provide the heating can't freeze in his home. When pro-government representatives talk about this institution or any village program and development, it always sounds incredibly powerful in itself. I say that this is justified in all parts, but we are in the experience of a ten-year government. And if this question had been as important as the hurrah-optimism that we heard the lectures, then today we would not be talking about the fact that instead of being a villager at the number of 1000 inhabitants, we would not be talking about the net salary of 140 thousand forints, we would not be talking about the fact that we cannot replace them, we would not talk about the fact that there is a huge fluctuations, and we would not talk about involving public workers to take care of village care, but we would talk about the successes that this is good, and that this institution is also helping Hungarian people to relocate to small settlements. This is also a very important factor. [[11.30]] But if I may, fellow Members, I would like to give you some information about where the Hungarian village has come to. At the time of the 2011 census, settlements of less than 200 people accounted for 13 percent of the country's population, but only 0.5 percent of the population. According to the data of the census of 70, 113 settlements already had less than 200 inhabitants, according to the 1980s. In 1980, settlements under 200 lost a quarter of their population compared to the previous census, and 55 lost 30 percent of the population. The population of these settlements has decreased by more than half since 70. The scale of the emigration process slowed down in the 1990s, but the rate of population loss was already the highest among the last two censors. So, today or the last 10 to 15 years, there's been more population loss than the first 15 years after the '90s. The age structure of the settlements is ageing, and in 70 it was nearly the same age as the elderly, but at the last census, the 60-year-old and older were 3.5 times more than those under the age of 15, not even a generation needed time to do so. Unfavorable demographic trends have also deteriorated in household structures. In addition to the fact that there are significantly fewer households in these settlements today, more than 40 percent live alone. In fact, the multigenerational form of coexistence has disappeared, and only a quarter of the families raise children under 15 years of age. I am not talking about that because my fellow Members have said that there is no work and how poor these households are. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. I say that although it is very right that the municipal population on which the villager network can operate is now increased from 800 people to 1000 people, and in this respect state aid will be granted to the municipalities, but today, for us, the XXI. In the 20th century, at a fairly high level of technological development, we should talk about the further welfare services that the government provides to villages in order to really, in Hungarian society, which is close to nature, which is frustrated in large cities, whose whole genetics, socialization and history have predestined primarily for rural life, how it could be achieved, we should not talk about reducing population, but about the fact that the population of small settlements has started to increase. If you'll allow me, let me even give you a technical question about the end of the legislation or proposal. It is stated that the 2019 LXVI on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020 will not enter into force. Law 16. Paragraph (2). When we look at what does not enter into force, we see that, from 1 January 2022, the provision is as follows: Law 65. Paragraph (2) of the Act: the text "800" is replaced by the text "1000." So what can you tell from this? That's the 2019 LXVI. It is also true in law that there are up to 1000 villagers from 1 January 2022. Now, in this proposal, you say the 4th. Paragraph 2 of Article 3 shall enter into force on 1 January 2022. §, i.e. the entry into force of the original text on 1 January 2022, shall enter into force on 1 January 2022. The two legislative amendments therefore refer back and forth to each other as to what will not enter into force from 1 January 2022. Excuse me, but it's such a silly way to do it. It would have been much simpler, because we are talking about legislation and the legal issue, that if the population of the village has already entered into force on 1 January 2021 for 1000 people, then why did they not simply repeal the entry into force of 2022 which has already been voted on and therefore enter into force on the basis of this proposal in 2021? So it shouldn't be that there are back and forth laws referring to each other, what doesn't come into force. Really, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, but this can be done much easier. Just because Parliament, as a legislator, sets an example for the next generation to do not only substantively, but also formally, quality legislation. If you will allow me, fellow Members, although it does not belong to the subject, but perhaps the President will not hold the floor in me, I would like to say a few words about yesterday. Luckily, I didn't have a chance to personally experience what happened in this house, but I watched this potato bag scene last night. I just want to say to everyone that the politician must speak not only against what he does not like, but also one of his most important qualities is self-control, self-discipline and respect for the other. As opposition representatives, we are well aware of the number of pro-government representatives, and we would like to change government in 22. We want people to trust us more than 140,000 Facebook fans, and we need to reach out to 2.5 million people to trust us. Most people don't like scandal. Most people like that when a politician talks to him, he does it fair and he speaks respectfully to his opponents. It is possible to draw attention to some kind of inappropriate event or problem by doing so with the same respect as if we were to praise it, because the content of the words expresses what we want to do. I'm very glad I wasn't here yesterday, because I would have been ashamed of myself as an opposition representative. And while it is also a fact that in the last two and a half years, we have had to exercise a lot of self-control in order to listen to all that pro-government nonsense, possibly, but we have always found a way, a style, that if you didn't like something, you can say it. I feel that if this opposition style and behaviour is to follow or continue until April 2022 in this House, then I know for certain that society will not trust us. It is natural for political forces to compete with each other, and it is also natural that one always tries to discredit the other, because he believes that then he will be more because the other is bad at something, I think it is also a bad way. But one thing's for sure, we have a totally messed-up society, people don't understand what it's about. Politicians are concerned with each other and with themselves and not with the current problems. I am pleased that I was able to say this in this proposal because the best way to respect and serve people living in small towns is to deal with what is important to them and to do everything to make their lives truly a life of European Union quality. And these are the performances, the circuses, the exhibitions, they don't have access at all. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the opposition.]]
u2020-10-20-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll tell you honestly, I had to self-control, too, because your last series of sentences was not on the agenda. Of course, this does not mean that the event that took place in Parliament yesterday is not sad. I think that we should make this clear to everyone, but not in this agenda. Dear Parliament, We now have two minutes of speeches: I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group.
u2020-10-20-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to say to Congresswoman Varga-Damm that her former party partner bought Ferenc Gyurcsány's cookbook and wanted to cook. Let's not deny him that opportunity. Of course, it's shameless what happened, and we agree on that. I wanted to respond to what Congressman Varga said, because from what he said at the same time, the binding words were true, and the rest of them were circumstantial lies. [[11.40]] It would have been true if you had said this speech in 2009. At the time, it was not so loud, either, in Debrecen, as even your loyal ally, the 444 newspapers, wrote about you, about your rural policy: under the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány, they left the countryside to poverty, they played the land into the hands of foreigners, they destroyed the Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian food industry, the family economy, and they made the whole regions unemployed. That's what your ally wrote about you. Congressman, you claim that the countryside is full of corruption. We don't have to go that far: two districts away, in Elizabeth City, you're stealing electricity for illegal activities. That corrupt activity, Congressman, is not the countryman's progress on the ground with hard work. And it's not true that there's no work in the country. There was no job when you were on the government, you left 12 percent unemployment here. And it's not true, too, there's a lot of people here who said that training for the village care services would be central. Here it was said, Congresswoman Varga-Damm, that the settlements 300 kilometers apart... are not so large, dear congresswoman, Hungary is unfortunately not so large that the area in a county is 300 kilometers away. The county authorities will organise the training, which means an area. It goes to the county authorities, not to the other side of the country, not to Budapest, but to the county authorities. I think that this is exactly what you've come up with here. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we now have representatives' speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr Group leader, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Members have given their views on the concrete bill in very detail. Krisztina Hohn, I think that perhaps you can represent the problems of small settlements here in Parliament in the most credible way, because he has been the mayor of a small settlement in Baranya County for several cycles. I don't think anyone who's more credible could talk about it. At the same time, I would like to refer to what has been said in the debate on several sides, both on the government side and on the opposition side, how difficult small settlements are and how much should be done and how this government has done it in substance. In referring to Mr Nacsa's speech just now, I do not doubt that there is a lot of criticism about the governments of the period before 2010, about governments' policy on the countryside and about the direction of their governance. I believe that these criticisms are, to a large extent, entirely justified. These were also formulated by us; the LMP was formed at the time, wasn't it? Obviously, we too have expressed our own position on the then anti-rural, rural-destructive policy in many respects. At the same time, I can say that in many respects it was very much expected and expected of society that, according to rhetoric, when Fidesz-KDNP came into power in 2010, it would then implement some sort of completely opposite policy, and I think that the disappointment was enormous and shocking, because we can say that in many respects you are pursuing the same policy in relation to the countryside and, above all, small settlements, especially the peripheral small settlements. So, by the way, they are doing the same many times, then they are absolutely rightfully criticised, they are making a series of mistakes that they asked for at the time, for example, to close or bleed the railway sidelines, which have been implemented this year, and they have not been able to give any meaningful answers to this question. In some situations, when you have been very, very uncomfortable with the political attack and political reaction, in some cases, in ten cases, these steps have been reviewed, but in a significant part these railway sidelines are allowed to dwindle, which is, in particular, an anti-rural, rural-destructive policy. Overall, I can say, however, that we can formulate some criticisms about this bill, but we will support it. We feel that there are steps to be taken forward, so every time we see one, we perceive one, and it comes to Parliament that is eligible, of course, we can count on our vote in favour. At the same time, I take advantage of the fact that Minister of State Balázs Orbán is one of the few State Secretarys who is actively involved in the debate, prepared here, paying attention to what is happening, what is said and, in substance, reacts not only in a closed word, so I would like to make questions and requests. This year there was a great deal of austerity, which, by the way, affected large cities, small settlements, but also the university sphere, so we can say that there was a series of brutal restrictions on the part of the municipalities, and, of course, this is not a problem for the municipalities, but for the Hungarian people in particular. There was a question-and-answer between us, Mr Secretary of State, and I indicated that a very, very large number of small settlements and various organisations bringing together small settlements have also said that they cannot manage the withdrawal of vehicle tax revenues. And then you said, Mr State Secretary, that you are constantly examining this situation, and when you feel that it is justified that this measure really causes such a disproportionate and significant problem, you will be withdrawn. Yesterday, we have already talked about the bill, on the basis of which we can see it, and today there will be a debate about the fact that they have moved in the opposite direction, but I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he has reviewed this measure and that he wishes to amend it, and that he wishes to correct this austerity measure. Furthermore, yesterday, I asked Prime Minister about certain public services, which my fellow Member Varga referred to, for very good reason and reason, and the shocking experience that we all had was that Prime Minister had fundamental flaws in today's Hungarian reality. We could also see that this was a shocking statement, here a few months ago, I am trying to quote it literally, Prime Minister, he made such a surprising statement: we are not there yet, but we are not far from saying that a Hungarian village can have the same quality of life as the capital. But let's just say, if we're away from the fact that I live in a rural city, but in a settlement that may be the smallest settlement structure in the country in Baranya County, I know the situation of small settlements very well, I've been very busy with small settlements, and I think that Mrs Varga-Damm Andra agrees that there are opportunities for people to live in rural areas if they get access to the right public services, job opportunities, livelihoods and so on. There's obviously great potential and beauty in this. But telling the Prime Minister of a country that living in a village in Hungary today is of the same quality as living in the capital shows that he is basically unaware of today's Hungarian reality. Moreover, I made reference to the Prime Minister on the immediate issue of the collapse of public services and specifically asked him about water supply. And the Prime Minister said that in every corner of Hungary, in villages and in cities, water supply is ensured. Now, this is a fundamental and, to me, frankly, a shocking and surprising material error, because according to your official statistics, I've been asking a member of your government for 95.2 percent of domestic housing. So even according to your statistics, the supply of drinking water to residential housing in the area has not been solved by 5 percent, and we know the extent to which the removal to the outskirts is not internal and is not in this statistics, and there are quite amazing problems with the provision of basic public services. So what we can say is that the Hungarian Prime Minister is not aware of the nature of the problems. And in his rejoinder, he also told me that I couldn't react to the fact that we were distracted. It acknowledged that a thousand billion-dollar scale was missing from the maintenance and maintenance and replacement work of utilities, water utilities in the medium term, but that 3000 billion was unrealistic. The County City Association estimates 3000 billion forints, so I didn't make up this number. The Prime Minister does not even know the most basic figures that are thus part of the accurate assessment of Hungarian reality. We also know that we are talking about small settlements, and that is what the authors have been talking about, Mr Secretary of State, and my fellow Members, that in the case of small settlements, especially in the case of small villages, which are scattered, the measures that have caused damage to the Fidesz government, such as the public utility tax, are disproportionately more burdensome. I think it makes perfect sense that you know this problem, too, that in the case of a long-term pipeline, in the case of the supply of a few hundred consumers, public works tax is a disproportionately greater burden. I have tried to ask any member of the government, Prime Minister, yesterday, no answer is given to the fundamental question that they are willing to examine in substance the possibility of launching the public utility. This is completely unrealistic and causes huge damage to the water utility sector. And then here, Mr Secretary of State, you spoke about the renovation of the lower roads, which is once again just a problem on which I acknowledge and accept the criticisms, and I will be happy to repeat at any time about the politics of the Balliberal governments before 2010. These reviews are absolutely sitting down. But after 2010, once again, based on your statistics, you're not working off the downside, you're making things worse. According to official central public statistics, the number of roads that are bad, inadequate, to be renovated or rebuilt is increasing year after year. And now, according to official statistics, there are 17,000 kilometers of lower road networks in the wrong or the wrong category. Please note that this number is getting bigger and bigger every year. [[11.50]] And now, this year, just like last year, there's funding to renovate 450 kilometers. And I would add that these are only state-reserved inferior roads. If we were to extend this statistics to roads in municipal reserve, we could face significantly more problems. This is also my question to Mr Secretary of State when they will face this problem and, recognising the difficult legacy of 2010, when we will get to a situation where the number of roads in bad condition is not increasing year after year, but is beginning to decline, so you are really starting to work off this problem, how you are going to do it. I'd like to ask you one more question. We have also talked about transport options, and I can repeat again that this proposal is basically good, and we will also support it, but here there is also a very, very serious debt: the reorganisation of public transport, the organisation of public transport and the adaptation of public transport to really provide rural areas, especially small-scale areas. We see various measures, the Volán has been brought under the MÁV, and now we can also hear from the government a type of communication that there is a large national transport company on the agenda. Not knowing the details, in general, I can say that basically this may not be the wrong direction. We consider these basic public services to be, in principle, national reservations. These are strategic public services in all respects; we have a very bad eye for marketisation, which is an obligation, and we know that unfortunately, an EU obligation to open and market inter-urban bus transport is an obligation. But any reorganisation will make sense if the supply guarantees are provided, especially to areas with peripheral, scattered, small-walled settlement structures that are difficult to see, so if they are ensured in the appropriate regulations that the supply, the given flight density and the rest will be adequate. When will the government take action on this? 'Cause we can see that they're dragging the wheel around with a little visual disturbance. This spring, for example, Minister Palkovics should have developed a model for financing local public transport, and then the state withdrew with another bill. But when, overall, will there be a fundamental transport reform, which, as you can see from the text of the law, is a guarantee to rural areas that people will receive the community transport service that is, obviously, one of the conditions for staying in the countryside, among many other factors? I am very confident that Mr Secretary of State will answer this question on the merits, not on a political basis, and I am aware that he will do so. I would very much like us to finally see that, on the part of the government, you are dealing with these issues at all, and some kind of progression, after ten years of idleness, will at least be seen in this respect. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would also like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd like to start with the political part. Allow me to do so, because then I can close this quickly, and then we can deal with professional issues. Firstly, I would like to thank you for the constructive contributions and proposals from both the pro-government and opposition sides in the debate, and I will try to respond to everything. The political part of this matter alone, I believe, was mentioned by Congressman Varga, in a way that I think is intolerable, that I am obliged to respond to this in one or two sentences at the beginning. It is quite spicy in itself that a DK Member is partying to the state, while representing a political system for which he is now allowed not to say something about his involvement and power before. 89-90, and the fact that this concept of power is not changed, so how much of a dog does not become bacon, shows what you thought in 2006 about how to exercise power, otherwise democratically acquired power against the Hungarian people. So, I believe that to bring this up every single time, and especially in the context of a bill relating to a village and a social services service, this is both unworthy and outrageous, and I think it is unacceptable. It can't be a good thing to be a DK congressman, because it's also a psychotic state, it looks like. So to say that the country of Hungary, where there are, of course, pro-government voters and opposition voters, but there are pro-government voters, who, no doubt you are right, are millions of them, they only support the governing parties because they do not see that they are misled, so they are not smart enough, I think that this is a point where it is worth stopping and it is worth saying that the Hungarian people refuse this approach. I do not know why you are involved in political background discussions about the opposition formation in which you are not only involved, but you are actually organizing it, why it has failed, why it has failed in the current interim elections in the Balaton region, why it has failed in Lucky, and why it has failed in Mohács, then the sentences behind which I think there is deep philosophical conviction, so you are serious about this, and this is sad, and that is why they stand so badly, and that is why it remains an unfortunate formation. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Besides, what the government did before 2010 is among great quotes, in the Hungarian countryside, that is destruction, ask your allies. If you don't believe us, then at least there are some good-looking people there, one or two representatives of LMP and one or two other parties who won't commend you, they won't praise you for what they did to the Hungarian countryside. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to put that in parentheses, because let's talk about the bill before us. I think that we fully agree that the issue of the Hungarian village and the issue of the smallest settlements must be dealt with from a strategic point of view, so this cannot be the area where, on the basis of the current budget space, political and political lobbying references, we develop such areas in this way and in such a way. I think that this is an evidence, but it was actually 28 years after the change in the system that a government came to put down a strategy, and a government came, who, by the way, created in eight years before, the budget space that was enough not only to fill the paper, but also to fill the program with life, and so we announced the Hungarian village programme. This village program, you may feel that we are singing eulogy, I do not think so, we know that we are not working on the fence of sausages, but we still have a lot of work to do, but it is also important that for the first time there is a line in the Hungarian budget, a dedicated allocation of funds that only improves the quality of life of these small settlements. It is a complex program, so everything is in it from the sidewalk repair to the community space renovation, through the village CSOK, to support other civil and ecclesiastical organizations, and can be customized for all settlements. We started with HUF 150 billion in 2019. I could absolutely ask you if that's enough. Of course, we know that it is not enough, but think about what happens if we can give these settlements at least as many resources each year, or we can give more resources, and let's say we have a program that runs for ten years, what changes it will make for the Hungarian countryside. After all, if we are talking only about the initial allocation of 150 billion, it would amount to HUF 1500 billion for these small settlements. It's a change that, even at the moment, I don't think they dare to dream about. And that this not only appears at the level of words, but also at the level of the practical mapping of the strategy, shows that, despite the fact that there is a coronal virus epidemic, in which, of course, the redesign of resources must take place, and that protection against the epidemic is the first priority in terms of economic and life protection, but that the HUF 150 billion allocated in 2019 has risen to HUF 217 billion by 2020, and that if you look at the budget for next year, there is already HUF 250 billion for the same programme and support for the same programme elements. So, despite the coronal virus epidemic, we managed to expand the resources, and so it can be said that we can't even add up the numbers of 22, but if I add this up quickly, we are talking about approximately HUF 600 billion in this cycle, from Hungarian budgetary sources, only to support settlements below 5,000 people. [[12.00]] This includes village CSOK, village road base, local quality improvement programs, as I mentioned, kindergarten development, sidewalk building, playground building, village civil organizations, village bus purchase, and further expand these programme elements, for example by supporting small shops and various services by private providers. So we want it not only to be the public services that are strengthened, but also the services that are provided by market players, we need to figure out how we can reach into this system, whether in postal services or in services related to food supply, in a good sense and help these services not to recover. So I think that there is no reason to praise anyone, but that the direction is right, and that the direction is not Peter James, but, in the normal sense, it is a good direction, it is worth admitting, and this is a program that should otherwise be supported beyond the logic of party politics. I don't always have that. So I would like to ask you to agree with what I have said, that this support goes beyond party policy logic, along these principles and strategic objectives, be given to the programme. Otherwise, I would argue a little bit with Mr Kereszt about the austerity of the local governments, because there is a tasty taste when we hear the opposition narrative that local governments would be squeezed by the Government of Hungary, while we see that since 2010 the government has taken over more than 1300 billion debts. Moreover, the amount of municipal subsidies from the central budget is also constantly increasing, in addition to a very significant commitment in the 2010-2014 cycle. Therefore, the amount of municipal subsidies increases year after year, and, moreover, the municipalities' own revenues, which can be said to be completely independent of the government's performance and the performance of the economy... this is not the case because they are generally a type of revenue that is closely linked to the performance of the economy. Therefore, if good governance is taking place and the indicators are good at economic and macroeconomic levels, then it follows that at municipal level, own revenue is increasing and, indeed, this situation, such as business tax revenue, has doubled over the last ten years. So I would like to be a local government that is bleeding out in this way. It is undoubtedly true, Mr President, that, in the context of the protection of the coronal virus epidemic, the revenue from the tax on motor vehicles, which has so far been transferred, but which has otherwise been central revenue, is considered to be revenue no longer granted, but these are 1-2 percent of municipal revenue, depending on the size of the settlement and the socio-cultural and other settlements we are talking about. It is true that I have said something to you, not exactly as you have quoted it, but I have undoubtedly said so, and I do believe that it is not the case that we are planning to withdraw this decision, but I have promised you that we will continue to examine it, that if there is a settlement in which this tax restructuring causes serious problems of working ability, we will help these settlements. In addition, there is no need to create an institution or a form of budgetary financing, because the Ministry of Interior has the specific resources available to draw them up through a tender. So what I can tell you is that this investigation has been carried out, and we're doing it all the time. We were right in the sense that this situation did not generate mass operational problems, and where additional support was needed, through the Ministry of the Interior, the government can provide it to the municipalities. I didn't quite understand the criticism of the training part of the bill. The situation is as it is, and in the meantime I have asked myself about the debate, so that, although I said this in the exposé, it is clear to me that there is a regulatory environment, but I have asked again, so it is said that, at the moment, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection is organising these trainings. The civil society organisations you have mentioned and other, to say the least, such centres of knowledge can participate in this centrally organised training. There will be no change in this respect, no centralisation of any kind. On the contrary, decentralisation is taking place because certain tasks related to the organisation of training will be carried out by county authorities from now on instead of DG Social and Child Protection, but they will also decide whether to do so on their own initiative or to involve external entrepreneurs, cooperating partners and civil society organisations. So this story does not change at all, and it is not centralisation, but on the contrary, decentralisation is taking place. In particular, the Member, but other Members, have also mentioned the possibility of further expanding services. Of course, we are constantly looking at the possibility of further expansion of the service from several directions, i.e. from the point of view that the upper limit of population can be constantly increased, so that such services can be financed from central budget support in settlements of more than a thousand people. This current bill is also about bringing forward an earlier such enlargement, which would have entered into force on 1 January 2022, to 1 January 2021, because the budgetary margin makes this possible. I also told you the numbers to show that, on the one hand, a normative, rising normative, constantly rising year by year, is also available. On the other hand, if we are serious about this, it is true that the service starts in more than 200 settlements, and it is true, as many of you have said, that this service can work if it is connected to it, so there is a surplus of more than HUF 3 billion in the budget in connection with the increase of the car fleet, so those funds are also available. But, of course, it is true that this is now a commitment originally made on 1 January 22, which the government believes is able to finance a year earlier, i.e. from 1 January 21st, and then we will see what further enlargements the budgetary margin will allow. In this context, although Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm is not here, she criticized the codification solutions of my colleagues in the context of the fact that it was originally contained in the Budget Act, to say the rule that would have allowed this villager service to be extended on 1 January 22. In addition to bringing this forward and putting the amendment in the social law into effect as of 1 January 21st, the present bill repeals the amendment, to be more precise: it does not provide for its entry into force. I looked into it, and I had time to listen to the debate, and the legislative act was 9. §2 of the Act provides that no legislative provision in force may be amended or repealed. Therefore, such a truly undoubtedly complicated codification solution must be applied because that proposal would only have entered into force on 1 January, 22 January, and according to the legislative law, it cannot be put into effect or repealed before the date of entry into force. This is, by the way, a constitutionally-dogmatically entirely appropriate solution; it is undoubtedly not the simplest, but we are here to remove all related doubts. If I may, on the basis of the road base, I absolutely agree with the Member that the development of lower routes, both inland and inter-urban, is one of the key areas. Protection against a coronal virus epidemic can also be linked in the sense that economic protection and job retention can help to keep the construction industry alive. [[12.10]] We are therefore proud that, although I understand that the Member and, no doubt, the numbers that we have to do are indeed high, but if he sees the value of HUF 122 billion in 2019 and 2020 and this means only road renovations outside the border of the settlement, a road renovation of almost 1,000 kilometres, on the contrary: it seems that in view of the aim of making as few roads as bad as possible, we have only moved away from this goal in the previous decades, and we will now be able to approach this goal, unlike before, with such a schedule. So we want to spend as much resources on this as possible, but it is not true that we would move away from achieving the goal. It is undoubtedly true that, in the meantime, new road surfaces will be added to the wrong categories, but it is not about not taking this work seriously enough, but, on the contrary, we are expanding our capacity. Just to bring here a specific technical problem to be solved: in many cases, the financial resources and the will are missing, but the machinery parks are missing, so the government also provided the additional machine capacity needed to implement the program in 2020. For 429 million forints, the purchase of equipment was carried out to increase the amount of renovation, so the amount of trips to be renovated every year. I hope that I have been able to answer all the questions that have been raised in a professional sense. I think this is a good bill, and it is certainly worth it that the Parliament supports this in a way that goes beyond party policy logic, so I would like to ask all of you, all of you ladies and gentlemen, to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-54	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend individual tax laws until closure. Government referral T/13258. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 13 October 2020, the Government submitted the T/13258 amending certain tax laws. Bill No. 1. The draft is an integral part of the government's tax policy, focusing on administrative simplification. In addition, the bill includes the amendments resulting from certain EU obligations to harmonise legislation, which are necessary on the basis of common interpretation and practical experience. Dear Parliament, The government's proposals to simplify administration, adopted by the operational tribe for economic protection, were submitted to Parliament with this bill. The bill contains a number of positive changes for businesses. Of these, it is of paramount importance that the tax authority prepares the draft VAT declarations for businesses starting next year, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. This not only reduces the administrative burden on businesses, but also encourages IT development and automation, thereby increasing the country's competitiveness. After preparing personal income tax returns, the tax authority will also provide further significant assistance to businesses. Honourable Members, On the basis of the bill, only a small company tax rate of 11 per cent or otherwise known as kiva will be made available to more and more companies next year by raising entry and residence thresholds. The revenue limit for the choice of entry will rise from HUF 1 billion to HUF 3 billion, and businesses will be able to keep their taxes on small business taxes up to HUF 6 billion instead of HUF 3 billion. In this context, the maximum entry balance sheet total will rise from HUF 1 billion to HUF 3 billion. Small business tax will therefore also be optional for medium-sized companies in Hungary, thus promoting the competitiveness of businesses and supporting economic growth. One of the most advantageous benefits of corporate taxation in terms of investment is the possibility of a development reserve, which is still available. In line with the competitiveness objectives, the exemption from the development reserve will be made even more available on the basis of the bill. As early as spring, the discount was extended by the fact that companies planning the Hungarian investment in the next four years can invest their entire profits, thus allowing these investment companies to benefit from the corporate tax exemption for this year as early as this year. The proposal before you removes the other threshold of the discount, the HUF 10 billion limit, so that the positive amount of profit is actually and completely set aside for investment purposes. Taxpayers still have four years to carry out the investment. Honourable Members, The amendments to the proposal to the local tax law are also aimed at reducing tax administration. I would like to highlight two changes. First of all, businesses with multiple sites have the opportunity to develop a return form that guarantees easier, more convenient reporting and significantly reduces the chances of making numerical and logical errors. This is done by the provision of the proposal that local tax returns are no longer contained in a ministerial decree, but will be available on the Ministry of Finance's website, and that business tax returns can only be transmitted through the NAV to the municipal tax authority. In order to resolve the misunderstandings, I stress that the latter change does not prejudice the right of local governments to tax. They can continue to decide on the introduction of the business tax, its extent, the benefits, and it will remain the responsibility of the municipal tax authority to receive, register, collect, control the tax, and, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the taxpayer will continue to pay the tax to the municipality. The administrative burden of local taxation is also greatly reduced by the removal of the tax liability on temporary business activities. This change is particularly favourable to those engaged in construction activities. Next year, it will no longer be necessary for the construction company to register in the municipality because of this tax liability, nor will it be necessary to declare its relatively short-term activities and to pay the de minimis tax. However, this does not affect the total revenue of the municipal sector as follows. The entrepreneur must pay this tax on his current temporary activity in the municipality of his place of establishment. Furthermore, there is no change in the rule that if the duration of the construction work exceeds 180 days in the tax year, the undertaking will have an establishment in the municipality where the construction work is carried out. Thus, in the case of a larger construction activity, tax revenue is generated locally in the municipality of the place of construction. Dear Parliament, As regards the amendment of the tax law, it should be pointed out that the obligation to pay a procedural levy is no longer applicable in the case of the vast majority of administrative proceedings at first instance. Except for personal documents and vehicle documents and the procedural levy on tax and value certificates. This does not simply leave about HUF 5 billion to the stakeholders, but at least reduces the administrative burden of customers and authorities. It will not be necessary to obtain a tax stamp and to attach it to the document or to pay the fee in cash, i.e. save a considerable amount of time for customers. The burden of the authorities is reduced because the fact that the levy is paid in the case of first instance procedures does not need to be examined separately. Honourable Members, The contribution to the development of tourism shall not be payable until the end of this year by undertakings selling accommodation or catering hot food with a VAT value of 5%. From next year there will be so many changes in this public burden that there will be no payment obligation for intermediate sellers, i.e. hotels, travel agencies, which provide the service below the VAT rate of 5%, accommodation services. This means that there will be no burden on the services subject to a VAT rate of 5% at several marketing stages with a contribution to the development of tourism. Changes to the tax system also contain a number of positive elements for both businesses and private individuals. Thus, individuals can apply for a 12-month allowance up to HUF 1 million in debt, and companies with a tax record that is reliable can apply for a 12-month allowance up to HUF 3 million. [[12.20]] The six-month period for mentoring by the tax administration to start-ups is increasing to one year. CHAPTER XXI In accordance with the information communication requirements of the 20th century, we allow the NAV to send its information material to customers in a wider manner if it is not explicitly excluded by the taxpayer, thus helping them to inform and comply with the tax liability. In some cases, the proposal also extends the provisions laying down the conditions for benefits exempt from personal income tax. The most important of these is that the epidemiological screening, financed by the paying agent, will be considered to be an exempt benefit, irrespective of the date on which the inspection was carried out. The latter condition means that it is not necessary to establish taxable income even if, during the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, a screening test has been carried out somewhere involving a wide range of individuals. It is important to stress that the exemption applies not only to screening tests related to the coronal virus epidemic, but also to any future epidemic situation. Dear Parliament, The amendments resulting from certain EU legal harmonisation obligations form a significant part of the bill. In the area of general sales tax, the most significant change in the framework of legal harmonisation is the modernisation of e-commerce rules. As a result of this harmonisation amendment, the rules on distance selling in the Community and VAT clearance for low value import shipments are changing. The aim of these changes is to eliminate the competitive disadvantage of businesses within the EU vis-à-vis third-country companies and to achieve fairer taxation by eliminating tax avoidance techniques. This is also the reason for the abolition at EU level of the VAT exemption currently applicable to imports not exceeding EUR 22. In this context, it should be pointed out that, in the case of consignments of less than EUR 150, it will be possible to release for free circulation without a decision if the declaration lodged by a natural person other than a taxable person is accepted by the customs authorities without change and if the person concerned complies with his VAT payment obligation by electronic means. This amendment will greatly speed up the procedures and will bring significant relief not only to the customs authorities but also to the couriers and recipients. In the context of the modernisation of e-commerce, the proposal also places a greater role on the part of e-commerce platforms, both in collecting taxes and in providing information that is essential for taxation. The amendments to the excise law create a substantial change in the regulatory area of manufactured tobacco, as the rate of excise duty on all tobacco products will increase in two steps until 1 April 2021 in order to achieve the EU tax minimum. We stress that the reason for the tax increase is to comply with EU standards and that the Commission should end its infringement proceedings against our country in this matter. On the other hand, once again, the victory of the pálinka-freedom fight will result in the tax exemption of home- and pay-based brewing for the consumption of the household and guests of fruit-producing persons. Honourable Members, The bill also proposes a change in corporate tax for harmonisation purposes. A counter measure will be introduced against the countries on the European Union's blacklist who do not cooperate in the fight against tax evasion. The essence of this is that the undivided profits achieved in these countries should be included in the Hungarian corporate tax base without any possibility of exemption. The blacklist will be included in Hungarian law, taking over the EU rule, by a ministerial decree. As far as personal income tax is concerned, the so-called personal benefit, which can be enforced by individuals suffering from diseases classified as serious disabilities, will be a tax benefit similar to the family benefit and the benefit of the first married couple. The rate of the benefit is set by law at one third of the minimum wage, which is equivalent to the rate of the tax payable under the current legislation. The gifts granted to the heroic dead and the orphans of the soldiers who died in connection with the service will also be considered tax-free, as well as the financial benefits granted to widows and orphans of the deceased under the law governing the defence and police area. Dear House, The proposal also states that car taxation should be dealt with by the state tax authority next year. This removes a heavy burden on municipalities, as the proposal significantly reduces the tax administration costs of municipalities. This task is also fair given the fact that the revenue from the car tax will already be included in the central budget in 2021. Dear Parliament, According to the bill, there is a further increase in cases where VAT on irrecoverable claims can be recovered by the taxable person and in cases where the taxable person is entitled to a special refund on VAT borne by him. The rules of representation of the taxpayer will also be clarified. As a result, it will be possible for companies with adequate qualifications to act as representatives of this person. The amendment of the Accounting Act mainly includes proposals and simplifications made by businesses and professional organisations. The proposed amendment allowing direct recognition of the dividend claim released by the owners against the profit and loss reserve constitutes a major simplification. In addition to simplification, the amendment also provides a more precise presentation of the relevant periodical result. The amendments that further expand the scope of economic events that may be accounted for and presented in the accounts in the future in a net way will also serve to simplify. The amendment to the deadline for publication of the annual accounts for stock exchange firms, in accordance with the capital market disclosure rules, is intended to ensure consistency between each legal requirement and the last day of the fourth month following the balance sheet date. The uniform provision of publication deadlines ensures the same content of the different disclosures. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment to the Audit Act requires auditors and audit firms carrying out audit activities in public-interest farmers to archive and preserve audit documentation electronically. Some of the auditors and audit firms concerned are already using electronic solutions, the amendment will require all public-interest auditors to do so in the future, keeping the principle of gradualness. In addition, the proposal includes several amendments to the organisation and functioning of the Chamber at the initiative of the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors. As a result of the proposed amendments, Hungary's tax exchange network will continue to expand both in the field of financial account information and in the field of data available from multinational groups. For example, a new partner will be Oman, Saudi Arabia and a number of financial centres, such as the British Virgin Islands or the Bahamas, which are important for increasing tax transparency. Dear House, The bill before you will help to preserve the progress achieved in recent years and will also fit into the government's tax policy of simplification, so please support and accept it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Norbert Izer, Secretary of State, was very detailed, in fact, with regard to each aspect of the amendment proposal, informing this House of what the bill contains. This bill is the T/13258. the proposal is divided into two main groups: one is the EU legislative harmonisation package and the other is the package amending the domestic law. I would like to highlight in my speech to the Chief Speaker some of the parts of the bill that are the most important pillars of the motion. Dear House, The bill includes, inter alia, amendments to general sales tax, excise duty, corporate tax and personal income tax, and includes policy changes. With effect from 1 January 2021, a counter-measure against the countries on the European Union's blacklist will be introduced in relation to corporate tax in order to ensure that the rule is as administrative as possible for companies in Hungary. Provisions on controlled foreign companies are being tightened to a lesser extent. [[12.30]] According to the amendment, if the status as controlled foreign company arises in relation to an undertaking in the State on the blacklist, the provisions on exports of amounts may not be applied. With this, we comply with EU standards, but we do not create unnecessary additional obligations for Hungarian businesses. The biggest legislative harmonisation change in the VAT is the transposition of the e-commerce package, which leads to significant changes overall, while the new rules are favourable to Hungary, we expect them to increase the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses and increase tax revenues. The amendments shall apply from 1 July 2021. Dear Parliament, It is important to mention that from the second half of 2021 in the area of VAT return, the tax authority is expected to prepare the draft VAT return for businesses by providing online cash registers and invoice data, thereby further reducing the administrative burden on businesses. e-VAT will provide meaningful, tangible help for small businesses, encourage IT development and automation. The draft shall contain the amendments necessary for the implementation of the e-VAT. The new rules for the provision of account data shall enter into force on the first working day of 2021 instead of 1 January 2021. One of the key pillars of the bill is the personal income tax exemption for epidemiological screening. In view of the emerging epidemic situation, the proposal also identifies as income free of personal income tax the case where the paying agent provides the individual with any form of epidemiological screening. The proposal sets the tax exemption irrespective of the date on which the investigation was carried out, so it is not necessary to establish taxable income even if, during the period of the first wave of the new type of coronal virus epidemic, a screening test has been carried out for private individuals in addition to the financing of the paying agent. The test paid by employers to employees is still exempt. In the bill, we can see that the recreational envelope for non-wage benefits will be harmonised. According to the applicable personal income tax rules, the budgetary bodies can grant their employees a non-wage allowance of up to HUF 200 thousand net at reduced tax conditions, while other employers can provide a net amount of HUF 450 thousand. The proposal removes the difference between the so-called recreational envelopes set out in the context of the tax obligation on non-wage benefits provided by budgetary bodies and other employers. From 1 January 2021, for each employer, a uniform part of the benefit above the ceiling of the net amount of HUF 450 thousand shall be considered as a certain defined benefit. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, All in all, I highlighted some elements of the bill, which contain important and forward-looking provisions. The bill before us will be supported by the Fidesz faction, because the proposal is in the interests of the Hungarian people, and I therefore ask my honourable Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have listened to the expo, the presentation by my fellow Fidesz lead speaker, and there are very important elements left out from these reports, so I would like to highlight them most. We have heard from the State Secretary's Expo, the main lines of amendments to certain elements, some tax laws, but perhaps less of what concerns the profession and the people, and most of all, concerns businesses. These are what I would like to address in my speech as the lead speaker. One is that you tell me that the VAT declaration will now be prepared by the tax authority, how good it will be. I ask you, for example, you asked the Tax Advisors' Association what they would say about this, because I read their communication, and it says that you did not consult the Tax Advisor's Association, which is, by the way, one of the largest professional organizations. And yes, they said that this would not be good for businesses, because the VAT law interprets the right to deduct as a right in which the company will be able to exercise the right to deduct at any time, and you will prepare this draft tax return by sending the draft into the system the data of the online cash register and online billing. It's gonna be double for accountants, tax advisors, tax experts, if not triple jobs. [[Towards the pro-government benches:]] You can shake your head, but I was sitting in an accountant's office, I know how hard it is to compile a tax return, especially a VAT return, where each accountant needs to know detailed rules that the tax authority doesn't know, because it doesn't even know what kind of tax the taxpayer wants, how much he wants to deduct, there's proportionality. VAT law is the most complicated law. So it's gonna be a little short for the tax authorities to send this draft tax return. This is also highlighted by the Tax Advisory Association. At least it would be worth a meeting like this, I beg you. So the Treasury Department should have spent time and energy on this. I believe we're headed for simplification. I have always said that I am absolutely in favour of electronic tax returns. I would like to point out, in particular, what is a very positive change in the bill for me is the simplification of forms for local taxes. So it's totally fine. But when the most complicated law, the VAT law, is drawn upon the accountants, that they will bug it on the basis of the draft tax return, that I will now deduct it, I will not deduct, I will proportionate what I am doing, so in this it should have been a very serious professional preparation, and not pouring it on the system in 2021. There was also no mention of Kata. The country has been boiling since the adoption of the 2021 budget. You put it in the legislation, in the basic law, that if a catalysmic taxpayer receives income from a business over HUF 3 million, then the paying agent, from whom he received the income, has to pay 40 percent tax. There was a grumbling about it. I trusted him when I saw here in the law, in the bill, that they would touch this law, that at least they would reach it, or at least they would hear to raise it, at least double it, to HUF 6 million. Because how nonsense is it that all the catnips, where these small entrepreneurs can now choose this tax code for 12 million forints, will pay 50 thousand forints or 25 thousand forints forints a month, yes, but if I break down 3 million forints, that's 250 thousand forints a month. Here, in each area, it is possible that, since the kata excludes a large range of activities, it is absolutely correct, I support that it does not fall under the catalog, but I am sorry, so it can be a lawyer, so why not have a contract of engagement, a company, say, for 300 thousand forints a month. We're talking about a million forints a month, which you can pay off with the kata. So the amount of 250 thousand forints, which I think would be worth at least doubling, is so low, but I would like to raise this by giving my full support to tighten up their measures to avoid employment, but this is not the way to do it. And it was left out of the Secretary of State expozee, and he did not even comment on one of the elements of this cataclysmic change, that if there is revenue from abroad, only 71.42 percent of the share above HUF 3 million should be regarded as a tax base. I was really looking forward to this raise, and I think there were tens of thousands of kats in the country waiting for this raise. Lawyers, lawyers, accountants, but I could tell you that the printer personally contacted me from printers that he had a bigger client, and he had a lot of small ones. The definition of employment, the fact that this is a covert employment relationship, would have your options, a higher degree of control. 'Cause I'm telling you, I totally agree that that should be avoided. But that's not the way. [[12.40]] So when are you going to hear the voice of the entrepreneurs? We're talking about tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs, most of whom keep their families up. And here comes this 40-percent tax, of course, we've already heard it, and I've read it, and indeed the paying agent will pay it, but let's not be naive, they're going to burden the entrepreneurs with this 40-percent. [[For signal:]] That's how it's gonna be, Mr. Nacha, well, you know very well. Then people will think that from the kata, he'll go back under his skin, and then we'll go back to the gray and the black economy. Because that was the point of the Kata, and of course, everyone was happy to finally have a very... online billing for the whitening of the economy, so there's a lot of things about whitening, but the cata was one of them. You're going to force the taxpayers back, especially the forced contractors, to go to the gray and the black. This cannot be our goal in Hungary today in 2020; we are talking about the 21st, and we are talking about the 21st, that you will force you to do so, many will choose this path. So I'm hoping that there will be an opportunity to raise this cataclysm. This, let us say, has not been mentioned in any of the speeches that have been made so far. I would like to mention it, because I tell you that if there is a positive change in these tax laws: I value as absolute positive in personal income tax the elimination of negative discrimination by raising the recreational framework of SZÉP cards to 450 thousand forints in public administration and other employers alike. I absolutely agree with him; and that the epidemiological screening will become tax-free. By the way, the explanatory statement did not reveal to me that all other epidemiological screening studies, but Mr Secretary of State said so, so I consider this question to be answered. It is very important, and I value the increase in the threshold of kiva as absolutely positive, and I also appreciate that more people will be able to live with HUF 3 billion to tax according to the kiva, so that more people, businesses, can develop even more, so that it can be absolutely supported. Three sentences on excise duty. I raised my eyebrows a little bit at the brandy, because I think that one of the diseases in Hungary is alcoholism, and now you are once again setting zero-forint excise duty on 86 liters of brandy per household. I believe that there is a layer for whom this will come in handy, that the excise duty is once again zero forints, but this should be thought about when such a legislative amendment is initiated, that it is indeed a good thing for the whole society that it is precisely an alcoholic product. Obviously, Hungarikum, we know, I suppose, these answers will be given by the Secretary of State. I am questioning this because this is what is really needed, as opposed to the fact that cigarette products and other tobacco products have an increase in excise duty in the bill due to the harmonisation of EU legislation. The other big issue, which has also been mentioned very few times, is the total withdrawal of the car tax from the municipalities. I remember when we sat here in the first wave during the epidemic, that you stood up and said that yes, now it is necessary to temporarily withdraw the 40 percent of the vehicle tax that remains in the municipalities, but the epidemic will pass, we trusted, the vast majority of the municipalities trusted that they would return. 'Cause what's the car tax for, what's it been spending on? Mostly road renovation, internal roads that were being maintained by the municipalities, to paint road signs. None of this is going to happen in the local government now. It goes in there, in the big hat. Of course, we know that you will be able to return to the Hungarian village program, because that's what you usually answer, but here you have shown your teeth protein. They are now drawing the full amount, and not only for the time of the epidemic, but also permanently, because it is included in the bill itself that the entire procedure, the entire administration, is transferred to the National Tax and Customs Office, so that this tax revenue is centralized and withdrawn from the municipalities. The cars will be on the local roads, but there'll be less resources. In Somogy's 4th constituency alone, this is 272 million forints. I wonder what Congressman Witzmann will say that it will not go to the municipalities now, because it will obviously support this bill. You can't support that, I beg you, where do we live? ! You said this would be temporary. It's not temporary, it's certain now, and it's just outrageous. And let's not talk about the government officials who have been working on the car tax so far, what will happen to them, because you obviously don't talk about it. I would also like to highlight one more thing, which I also appreciate as positive, although I am also speaking against myself, that, in addition to the accountants with a view to accounting, tax advisors and tax experts will be obliged to continue their annual training in order to keep their registration. Indeed, it is important that tax advisors also have up-to-date knowledge, such as those of the accountants, so I think that this is a really positive change. Overall, the bill has positive moving features of EU harmonisation clauses, transposition of a directive, but there are parts that simply have not been settled with the profession, you do not take into account the local governments when the car tax is completely withdrawn, and you do not deal with small taxpayers, people who have been beating the table for months now, that they will not be able to cope with 2021, because the threshold of HUF 3 million is so low that they cannot keep up and they will go into all kinds of tricks. So, with all due respect, I'm gonna ask you to reconsider and put me in... because I can make an amendment, too, but you always vote against it. Well, do it yourself, hear the voice of the entrepreneurs, and make a change, and change, at least double this catalysm. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-20-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill amending certain tax laws before us also includes a number of legislative harmonisation, tax reduction, administrative burden reduction, simplification and, of course, measures resulting from EU obligations, we can call it a classic salad law. I usually do not use this in a negative way, like colleagues on the other side of the horseshoe, but that it covers several topics at once, which all points in one direction. Simplification, tax reduction, reduction of administrative burden are the aims of this bill and the government. A number of major company simplifications and efficiency improvements are in line with a very important objective of increasing competitiveness and reducing red tape and administrative burdens, as in future companies will have enough resources to provide for administrative administration, thereby giving more opportunities, money and energy to increase workers' wages, invest and improve. In this Parliament, I always say that I am basically always very positive about any bill that serves simplification. Our lives are out of bureaucracy, this is thanks to God, it has been steadily reduced in recent years, and I still think that it is important for many types of cases, for the different types of administration that affect our lives, for the lives of businesses, to always move towards simplification, because my theory is that one day we will be found in our offices under a pile of paper, and it is very important that we do not go in this direction, but always towards simplification and reduction of bureaucracy. In the future, from the second half of 2021, the tax authority would prepare the VAT return for the company with the online cash register and account data received. I must also note here that one government has not done as much in the last thirty years to whiten the economy as the Fidesz-KDNP government has done to eliminate the grey and black economy. We can remember the measures that have been taken in recent years, and we have often discussed this in the Parliament itself, either about online cash registers, online invoicing and a number of steps that have served to whiten the economy. [[12.50]] And we can also see that these efforts have been very successful, as we have seen how much the online cash register, the introduction of online invoicing, has increased public tax revenue in these sectors, thus allowing us to otherwise reduce taxes on personal income tax, corporate taxes or social contribution tax. The bill saves businesses time, resources and tasks by drawing up the draft VAT return by the authority and, as I mentioned, contributes to the whitening of the economy. e-VAT will provide meaningful and tangible help for small businesses in the future, encouraging IT development. I think it is very important that this organisation, the Association of Tax Advisors, has also described in its communication what my better fellow Member has said is that there has been a lot of IT development in this area, and there has been a lot of forward-looking software in the market that makes operation substantially easier and that is prepared for changes in current tax legislation and for the 21st century. This proposal can also help to address the challenges of the 100th century and thus digitalisation of businesses. The bill includes a simpler, more transparent, more comfortable filling out of the business tax return and only reporting and filing through the tax authority, the NAV. This measure may result in a significant reduction of administrative obligations for taxable persons and for municipal tax authorities. The proposal also extends the scope of the small business tax, the Kiva, to extend the current HUF 1 billion turnover limit to HUF 3 billion. This step, taking into account that the rate of kiva will decrease from 2021 to 11 percent, will significantly increase the competitiveness of Hungarian small businesses and will help the recovery of economic growth. The bill also records the result of the Hungarian victory in the fight for freedom that the pálinka cooking will actually become tax-free from 1 January 2021. For a long time, the national government, representing Hungarian interests, fought in Brussels so that EU legislation would not impose tax burdens on home pálinka brewing. This fight ended with Hungarian victory Hungarian Government-Brussels bureaucrats 1:0, we could say that on this subject, so the Hungarian people can live in a legal way from the beginning of next year with the possibility of home-based pálinka cooking with significant traditions and also regarded as hungaricum. The production of home-cooked pálinka must continue to be notified to the National Tax and Customs Office, but the tax stamp of the distillate shall be abolished mutatis mutandis, and instead the authority shall provide a certificate of origin to the private person cooking the product at home. The bill also includes an increase in the rate of excise duty on tobacco products. Fortunately, in order to protect non-smokers and to reduce smoking, the Hungarian government and the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament have often taken a number of significant measures on this subject, both unanimously and with opposition support. I think it is very important to fight this fight, this fight, there is still a high number of smokers in Hungary, although we can see that it is constantly decreasing, we still need to take steps to reduce the number of smokers, which is aimed primarily at healthy lifestyles and the protection of non-smokers. Smoking has been banned from restaurants, catering facilities, public institutions, smoking has been banned at stops, stations and schools, and we have introduced strict regulations regarding the sale, import of tobacco products and advertising and advertising. A number of campaigns and programmes have been launched in recent years on confrontation with the consequences of smoking, its negative effects on health, and in recent years, cigarette and smoking tobacco rates have increased steadily in a total of six stages. The current proposal increases the rate of excise duty on cigarettes, smoking tobacco, smokeless tobacco products and nicotine-containing products in two steps, in January and April. The rate of excise duty on new categories of tobacco products, heated tobacco products, filling fluids and cigars and cigarillos is also increasing. I think it is very important on this subject that last year we introduced a tightening of the rule that if a tramp sells cigarettes to a minor, he sells tobacco products to a minor under 18 years old, he may lose his right to concession for the second time, third time, after the first warning and punishment, and that business can cease to exist in this respect. It is very important to protect minors, children and young people from the dangers of smoking, and therefore it is not possible to place any advertising in a visible place in Hungary today. I very much hope that in a car in front of condominiums, in the presence of a minor, we can go on this road in some way, and that we can further strengthen the protection of non-smokers. I think it's a good direction. In addition to awareness-raising campaigns and various tightening measures, it is also necessary to aim at this direction by increasing the rate of excise duty by increasing the price increase. In the context of health protection, in view of the current epidemic situation, the proposal will include, among personal income tax-free revenues, the carrying out of coronal virus tests in any form, i.e. screening tests. Of course, this is an absolutely justified and eligible proposal in an epidemic situation. In addition, the current bill, as the Secretary of State pointed out, contains a number of other amendments, legislative clarification and legislative harmonisation provisions, which were discussed in more detail in his exposé by the Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance. Overall, the aim of the proposal is to establish life-style, simplified, duty-free tax rules to improve the economy, reduce bureaucracy and administrative burdens or harmonise EU legislation. Therefore, the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have also heard from our fellow Member Nacsa in the presentation that there will also be a tax reduction, an increase in competitiveness, and that we have won the battle of pálinka in this case. These are not things to be underestimated, obviously, and I know very well that these are very important things for many, if any, and we have also heard that the salad law is good if each provision points in the same direction, as yesterday in the epidemiological defense, the licensing procedure for gambling has somehow been included. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would rather think that I would like to point out from a higher perspective what kind of difference there is between us, so to speak, in tax policy, philosophical, and world-vision. We believe that a tax system must be fair and proportionate. We believe that there is a need to differentiate in this way in a lot of places, although you usually apply it to a certain type of tax, a certain tax rate, such as VAT, such as personal income tax. Of course, we do not think about this, which we have said many times on these issues. Clearly, there is no connection between the two of us and the common thinking. We are keeping the highest VAT level in the world, not for Europe, and you are not touching it. You think that VAT is a fair tax, because who consumes how much, pays so much, but most Hungarians do not go into a reclaim position, so it seems quite simply expensive to them. We see that this is how you use these rates, even if I say it is obvious that the injustice is that the person who works for a multinational company, for example, is paying 15 per cent, even though the multi-national that works for him is paying only 9 per cent, and we can't imagine what makes it fair, and they don't touch it; even if we see that these companies, when they move here, in the first five or ten years of their operation here, pay almost no tax at all. On the other hand, the burden of Hungarian businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, has not been reduced in recent years. Perhaps now we can see that their administrative burden will be reduced. [[13.00]] We do not see what is also important to us, and it is once again a difference between us in the world, that we do not see those who have an extremely high income and see that in the NER system, it does not depend on how smart they are, how much they have learned, that through successes and failures they have learned the tricks of what they call their profession, but in the NER system, it means that whoever is pointed out by the finger of the dear leader will be successful will be subject to a greater tax burden. At least the idea of some level of luxury tax would appear if it were appropriate! We see, there's luxury, there's a helicopter, there's a yacht, and they're used, but we don't see that somewhere in proportionate public cargo and fair public cargo, it's the same for these gentlemen, ladies who take advantage of this luxury. What we see in the municipalities is that you're taking away, first you want to take away the smaller part of the business tax, then most of it, it didn't work, then you're taking it all in the country, you're saying that the car with the horse, everything, the administration, everything is taken away from the municipal authority, and from now on, the business tax will be levied and collected by the NAV. I tell you honestly that I am not necessarily happy with these provisions, and they will not always be simpler, as you think; neither is it because we have seen, when powers have been deployed, where, say, the Central Bank has the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions or are now installing the collection of municipal taxes to the NAV, in general, the institutions to which this competence is assigned are not prepared for it, which have so far had this competence and, they have completed this task, and they will not have work. This is certainly not good in the short term, and we do not see the transition period, we do not see the preparation period that would give us sufficient assurance that this will be a smooth delivery. From this point of view, it seems very much that if the state wanted to put their hands on tax revenues, local tax revenues, it would then put their hands on the use of them, as we do not read about how local authorities collecting local business tax are involved in this regard. We see that the state will collect it for them, but what we cannot see is how it will be returned. What is also important about VAT, I have already said, is that now that, because of the defence, because of the epidemiological situation, and because of the rules created for it, many families are in a hopeless situation, we have repeatedly said that we have had proposals to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5% or less. Now we see that the excise duty on brandy can be zero percent, so why can't the VAT on bread be zero? Why can't the flour's VAT be zero percent or five percent if it can be zero percent? I think that the government should also think about this, and that if Brussels had a problem with this before they came with it, this would typically be the case that would be worth a door slamming and a good debate in Brussels, a reduction in the VAT on basic foods, up to a VAT rate of up to 5%, this would be worth at least a debate as much as the price of brandy; in case someone would not only like to cook 86 litres of brandy at home and drink it, but perhaps want to obtain basic food with lower VAT. We believe that these differences between us, sometimes philosophical, sometimes world-visionary, that we do not see reflected in this package of laws, to which, of course, we will submit our amendments, and we will ask you to support that, if there is a zero-percent excise duty on brandy, there should also be a zero-percent tax on basic foods, so that Hungarian families can benefit better. One last thing, one last thought: there is news, Mr. Secretary of State, and these are the news you usually change, that the tax on the construction of the new apartments is reduced to 5 percent. We didn't find this in this proposal. Did you get in or did you just miss us? If it goes into it, then in what form, why didn't it come in now? Or do you wish to provide for it in a separate law? And this question, please, Mr Secretary, is that if you will do us the honour of taking part in the debate, you will be kind enough to answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-20-64	Thank you very much, Congressman Cook. I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-10-20-65	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. We are taking the opportunity to express our views and express my opinion on a package of laws that really is about a lot of things. However, I would like to focus essentially on three issues, rather than essentially your undisputed initiative, or rather your habit of not hearing the proposals, by the way, is not usually being followed. Therefore, if you are talking about changes to the rules on personal income tax, corporate tax, publishers, taxpayers, changes to registration tax, changes to the general turnover tax, changes to the rules on excise duty, local taxes, levies, opinions and amendments are very important in themselves, but I do not expect you to accept this right now. Not even because we are starting with the first important point here, and I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that next Tuesday Minister Mihály Varga will be hearing the Committee on Budgets, otherwise the majority of the government did not want to discuss the tax laws, i.e. the revenue side of the budget. The President of the House has appointed the Economic Committee for this, but I believe that the very simple fact that, as I said, the revenue side of the budget means what tax rules are adopted, you do not want to hear the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, you do not want to have a debate there. This is in line with what I started to talk about, that you are actually interested in one thing: your own proposal and all the others are irrelevant in any way or wherever it comes from. I don't mind if you hit the wall with your head, but, frankly, I find it very outrageous that you are in general withdrawing the debate on the budget from the framework of Parliament's operation, and then, in the course of budget implementation, essentially all the amendments and, let's just say, a derogation from what you have planned, the relevant information will not be made in Parliament or at committee meetings. I therefore believe that what you have to suffer or bear in this matter is still being shredded in the relatively short time, in essence, in part, in the closing account, which will soon come before Parliament, but now also in the context of the debate on tax laws. I would like to emphasise first of all how indisputable you are and reject the opportunity to make any meaningful contribution. The second point is that, while the bill also contains acceptable technical changes, the aim of this story is to create or create a country of honest taxpayers instead of a country of tax fraud, if you have an ambition to do so. Here I expressly say that acts of lesser value, but contrary to laws or tax laws, can be punished infinitely, but in the regulation they leave open those loopholes which, not only are loopholes, but which are easily opened up to those who, let's say, are kept away from online opportunities or declarations, they do not have to fear such a threat in relation to gambling and casino revenues. [[13.10]] For many years now, or at least for several years now, the situation is that you 56 people, if I remember correctly, have 56 taxes that make me say that simplification and not complexity should be grasped in this story, as I understand it, I accept that in order to cover common expenditure, common income should be created. But if this is done with a flood of hostile legislation, it won't help. In this way, I see it as a criminal tax rather than as a supporter of companies whose purpose is profit-making or, in essence, self-employment for most businesses. Lucky for you, there are hundreds of thousands of people like this, because if they listened to you guys just listen, listen to what the center says, what the government says, and if they didn't create their existential conditions themselves, they wouldn't be able to count on much help from you. And they can't count, and that's what we see today when there's trouble, or we can really see how indecisive you are and can't help people. Even in this epidemic, you have to talk about abandoned pensioners, families. You can't really help them. But I think it's not a good way of saying they can't, it's not that they want to help people, it's that they don't want to help businesses. If you now list how a few thousand families and businesses have been helped, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are also hundreds of thousands of people who need help, but you are ignoring all of this. My colleagues have already talked about the provisions that plague the cataclysms. I would like to draw attention here not to increasing value, but to your behaviour. Years ago, people were given an opportunity, and they were encouraged to use the method by which they paid less, according to which they would not have to pay taxes, but to stay with them. And now you're admiring that you've lost your income, and in a time of epidemic danger, instead of helping these businesses, you're still hurting them, because, obviously, you're gonna have a lot less assignments. More important, however, is that these people are not alerted to the fact that their pension benefits will therefore be much more modest, and what remains of them would, in fact, be an excuse to expand the possibilities of the last stage of their life in old age. In this regard, you have been able to create only a dubious opportunity, even if many have taken advantage of this opportunity. Now that people have been introduced into this tube, this termination has been abused this year. In any case, there is a charm to encourage everyone to drink a liter and a half of brandy a week, and to ensure that they can do this with zero forints of general sales tax freely, cook it, drink it. Well, I believe that this is the most pleasant solution for you, and the insane state that will arise as a result will cause you much less problems. If I do not want to embarrass you, I respectfully ask you, if you are such great warriors of the health damage to people caused by the consumption of tobacco and the effects of the tobacco market, then why do you do this, Mr. Secretary of State? With all due respect, I suggest you think about it. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the third and, in fact, the most important issue, because you know exactly what is happening and why you are doing it, the abuse that you are doing to the municipalities and the potential of the municipalities. There is almost no bill that does not hinder the very important idea of the local government, which is not only about making decisions where the most information is available, and the municipalities, as the closest to the people's lives, can help thousands of settlements, knowing precisely who in that community should be helped, who should be encouraged to help their activities. In almost every bill, you take steps to cut it short and make your life difficult. There was no reason to do so in this bill. This must be judged as a step towards local governments and yelled and yelled at to stop themselves. You can't do that to people's communities. But this cry won't touch you. I trust that when the time comes, they will pass judgment on your centralizing efforts, and that people will be fed up with everything in the Ministry of Finance, or rather I would say because you have not moved in yet to decide everything in the Castle alone. The ruling effort that is linked to the rule-making that is supported by this package of laws for their businesses and businesses in their environment contradicts exactly what will happen to the 25 000 pensioners living in a district, in a city or in Újpest every day from there. You're far from interested. He doesn't care, because they're distracting the opportunities that have been available to us before, but I have to say that they've been an important pillar of democracy in the local government for ten years. That is why, or above all, this draft law in this form will only be supported by you. Thank you very much for listening to my opinion.
u2020-10-20-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is the lead speaker of the LMP Group, Member Antal Csárdi.
u2020-10-20-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Here lies the amendments to the tax law of this year, and unfortunately there are no many surprises in them. I do not want to deny the fact that this amending package could be supported in many of its elements, but in many of its elements it contains amendments or amendments that unfortunately make this unacceptable in today's Hungary. [[13.20]] We feel a little bit like you didn't realize at the moment that there was an economic crisis in the country caused by the epidemic, and it affects not only companies, but the daily lives of people living here. I believe that two or maybe three elements of this salad law need to be highlighted so that I can justify our claims. I'd like to start by saying that you're lying in the morning and at noon and at night, and that's completely shameful. I remember that in the spring of this year, during the first wave of the epidemic, you said that the removal of motor vehicle taxes from local governments is a temporary situation and that this will cease in the future. There's a law in front of us that says it's gonna stay that way, my dear friends. You can clearly see the centralization effort to draw the right to levy taxes and collect taxes from the municipalities, little by little, tiny slices. We talked then, and I must say now that these revenues, in addition to the increased tasks, mean a serious cut to the municipalities. I know what the author's answer will be, he will tell you how small this is, and that the municipalities must also take their part in the defence. There are two problems with this, Mr Secretary of State, honourable House. The fact that this bill is no longer just about the period of protection, it is not just about the period of the pandemic; this tax revenue is lost, apparently permanently for the municipalities. The second problem with this argument is that the municipalities in Hungary today took their part in the defence, providing the elderly living in their settlements, sick people living in the settlements, our countrymen who were quarantined. Because, I think, there is no debate between us that this costs money, and my experience without exception shows that the municipalities have done well in this task, and I can even say a lot of municipalities in the countryside and in Budapest who have provided extra support to the working people, who you regularly forget, but this is not part of the tax package before us. The second element of this story is the taxation of tobacco products and the exemption of spirits. It is worth drawing attention to the two inhabitants that appear in this tax package. On the one hand, you are pleased with the role of health protector, when you raise tobacco tax, I think that this is okay, but on the other hand you want to make it free or, let's just say, tax-free home and wage brandy up to 50 and 86 litres a year, in a country where professionals would say that it is a country of one million alcoholics. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Government, Why are you so attached to free schnapps? Why do you think that today's Hungarian society needs cheap brandy in this economic crisis? Wouldn't it be more appropriate to say that cheap basic foods are needed? It would not be the right way to say, my fellow countrymen, that we are reducing the VAT on basic foods, thus reducing the price of basic foods, because, as has been said in the weeks, one of the best defenses would be that, for example, our children, our grandchildren, ourselves or our mothers, our fathers, have fresh, high-quality fruit every day. But if we buy a family of six and expect three apples a day, that's 18 apples. That's about, I don't want to say stupid, he says 40 ounces each, and 40 ounces times six, and he's worth 2.5 kilos. So, a family of six could eat 2.5 kilos of apples a day, but with today's price level, it costs a family tens of thousands of forints a month. You will put your hands on this: please, the government does not think that there is a need to reduce VAT on basic foods, but there is a need for tax-free pálinka cooking. Mr. Secretary. What would you prefer to give your child? But I don't want to be personal. Don't get me wrong. It's a rhetorical question. What would you rather give your child: brandy or fruit? Do you think that today's Hungarian families have a family-friendly government to make easier access to: brandy or basic food? Let's talk about vegetables, fruit, flour or sugar. This approach is a serious attack on Hungarian society, for which it is very difficult to find expressions that bear printing ink. I think it's only fair in your worldview that there's no tax on pálinka cooking. In your worldview, it is right that restaurant consumption is almost tax-free, but in your worldview, with the highest VAT in the world, they increase the price of basic food, and we are not reading anything about it in this bill. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The thing is, you're not serving our fellow countrymen here, you're serving your own world. In your world, I'm willing to believe that they eat in restaurants more often than they do at home, and I understand from here on out that they prefer to keep restaurant consumption cheap, they don't charge general sales tax. I believe that in your world there is a much greater culture of brandy consumption than home cooking, the use of basic foods. But, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable members of the Government, the fact is that in Hungary it is still the case that the vast majority of people want basic food and it is necessary to use it to produce their daily bread. In this real world, apple is healthier today and not brandy. Unfortunately, in today's Hungary, where we live, there are already very many alcoholics burdening our families' everyday life, our health system, but you are winning the freedom fight. Winning the freedom fight! They make the brandy tax-free. Ladies and gentlemen, All I can say is cynically congratulations. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-20-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to make a statement may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-10-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13258. We are discussing a legislative proposal amending certain tax laws in order to allow the government to make some of the numbers of the budget law it has already requested to be adopted. [[13.30]] The proposal contains a large number of amendments of an administrative or legal nature, and I do not want to deal with them. A certain amendment to 26 laws through paragraph 184 would be made, and 154 pages of this proposal, so whoever could process this could indeed deepen the mysteries of this proposal. The material itself goes through such a wide range of debts that it could almost be regarded as a small code if it were not to amend so many laws. As far as personal income tax is concerned, there is an initiative whereby a severely disabled individual has so far been able to reduce the tax burden on his consolidated tax base by HUF 8050, as a result of which the government has tried to compensate some of the tax burden on our fellow disabled workers. It is now being transformed in that it can reduce the tax base, not by this amount, but by one third of the minimum wage. I don't really have any information on the extent to which this affects social groups and the scale of income we're talking about. I hope, or I can hope, that for those of our fellow countrymen who are forced to live with it, this will be more favourable. I welcome the part of the proposal which set out the extra wage allowance up to HUF 450 000 in the budget sector. It was extremely unpleasant in the public sector that in some institutions the so - called cafeteria could only be given up to 200 thousand, in others to 450 thousand. Now this proposal creates some harmony. The proposed legislation on corporate tax and dividend tax is in fact linked to the controlled foreign corporate quality. It is the European Union Directive that required this amendment to be made. The third important question, the third amendment, is about the specific tax on small-tax companies, and here, if I may say so, fellow Members, I am going to stop a little bit. Over the past period, there has been a very heated and passionless debate about the government's desire to make small business taxation slightly more stringent by the fact that if a contractual partner acquires more than HUF 3 million in revenue, it will in fact impose a very serious 40 percent tax on this amount. Of course, I myself have understood the opposition opposition that was about a very favourable tax system being developed by the government for citizens who operate their small businesses and are trying to raise the amount of family livelihood, but I have to say that I have some understanding of the government's position on this issue as well. I want to refer you back to the '90s. Why do I want to transfer back? I would like to refer you back because in the 1990s, the renaissance of the fact that more serious companies from employee status forced their employees to undertake, so-called on their own feet, and all the burden, administrative, tax burden, risk burden, and the possibility of losing the business's order were also imposed on these so-called compulsive entrepreneurs by calling them forced entrepreneurs, and by doing so, we have served enormously large sections of society with the relentless rules of the market. Very few people remember this, only old people who knew countless people who had done a job classically for an employer, never worked for anyone else, and yet they were forced into the business. The small business tax, I must say, has restarted the same process, there is only one huge difference between the 1990s and today. While in the 1990s there was a labour code, in the noble sense of the word, in the interest of the worker and in order to guarantee his rights, there is now an employer's working law, i.e. workers are also extremely vulnerable to employment, they may not be directly exposed to market law, but indirectly, yes, because as market laws or market developments change the fate of large companies, entrepreneurs, even in a negative sense, this is immediately pictured by the simple worker, i.e. today the workers are taking away all the burden that represents a risk for businesses on the market. So with this new form of taxation, the formation of the Renaissance, the forced business community who may have felt that they had more free opportunities to get a job on the market in business status, but most of them are still working for a larger entrepreneur or a more serious organisation, i.e. they do a classic job. If it weren't for abuse to establish relationships, they would be in employment. If I were the owner of the financial portfolio, and I saw that this small business tax was created by large companies to get away with being a sub-contractor and a chain of small taxpayers to keep people in employment who would do nothing but do this job classically and deliver them to the laws of the market, even though they couldn't influence the market, I would say that this has to end somehow. However, it is also true that today the employee cannot distinguish between the fact that he is in a better employment relationship or in this small business relationship, because today's labour code protects him no more than the hectic uncertainty of the market in the free market. Therefore, we do not see the kind of social movement that would have started in order not to be forced to work in an entrepreneurial form if they were already classically performing work tasks for an organisation, because they are no longer able to distinguish the characteristics of the two relationships from each other. But I will tell you where the moment will be when you can distinguish it from each other: and this is when you want to retire; this is when you get older, you get sick and you get sick more than once, but unfortunately, you are right for my fellow Member, László Varju, who talks about how the difference between the unpaid tax margin, reduced small business taxation and the previous tax burden may be taken away as self-care, and by the age of that reserve will provide an additional source of living, although it would be what my fellow Member said, if it were so! Hungarian society is still very little self-care; it is still very little visible that they are a reserve, more consciously farming, thinking about difficult, unexpected times, not older age, no, no! At a time when these small entrepreneurs are faced with retirement, when they will calculate their present value for these periods on the basis of basically the minimum wage, they will face the fact that, oh, my God, yes, it was easier for me now, but when I find it harder to get a job, I cannot be so active, I need a pension as a substitute for income, and it will be so small that I can't make a living. That is why I say that in this proposal I very much welcome, on the one hand, that the threshold for the cessation of small corporate taxpayers is HUF 6 billion. I welcome the fact that the revenue threshold and the balance sheet threshold of the entry thresholds will rise to HUF 3 billion, as this will widen the range of entrepreneurs who can make use of it, but then I say that this is the compensation for not working as a taxing entrepreneur for the people who carry out a one-piece operation, who do not work for anyone else, but announce it, my friend. In fact, there is still a high level of taxes and contributions on labour compared to income levels in Hungary, this is undisputed, but if we do not start to involve people who are not doing business but doing work in a classic labour law situation so that they can become declared workers, because in the long run, this guarantee is that they will be able to receive a pension with a long-term work relationship and a decent income level that they can live from when they retire. [[13.40]] So this is the long-term effect, and while I stress that I do not like the fact that we lure a lot of people into a tax form, and then we try to draw it out with a pen stroke, because the time is very short, and I do not agree with it, but I do, too, I demand that it is not possible to have an entrepreneurial relationship with a classic employer who performs a job, so that this must end. And let me tell you one more thing, it's not gonna take 15 minutes, and then I'm gonna have to ask you a few more questions about the situation of the guides. What happened to the pandemic? Tourism is down to zero. Here are many tourist guides who are part of a 6.8 percent GDP production, and they have not received any income replacement support in the world at this time, because they are all in the form of retailers, even those who work exclusively for a tourist company, do not work for anyone else. They should be in a classic labour law situation, because they do work, but because these people are not registered, they are excluded from the possibility of income support, companies that have worked for them, even though they have spread their arms, even though the guides themselves have been forced to become entrepreneurs, because otherwise they will not receive a contract. But there are a lot of social groups in this country who are victims of the same thing. So I'm a supporter of the fact that the unique person is the center, and every rule has to be made to function in their best interests. If it is in the interest that a person who does work for an organisation should be in the employment relationship, and should have a fair wage, and, of course, his contributions should not destroy that organisation, this is also an important issue, because otherwise there is no work, but the fact that there is a system of legitimate abuse, contractual relations is a government job, and he gives his consent to a mass of people being exposed to such relationships, and I do not want that to happen. Next topic. All along, there are several rules on small-tax businesses. In my next speech, I would like to talk about brandy, because that is at least five minutes, because I have something to say, I suppose, no one admires it; and let me say a few words about the car tax. I don't like it being centralized either. I do not like the presence of this tax, but it can be the subject of a separate presentation, but if it is a municipal tax, I also think that it should have been left with the municipalities. That is another issue, and this is very important, to consider, especially in the rural context, that there are a lot of settlements charged with vehicle traffic, with hardly any vehicles in the locality, after which they could tax, even though it is an extraordinary burden, there is certainly no need for you to talk about transit traffic, especially in border settlements. So I think it would be fair if the towns were to benefit relatively harmoniously and in proportion to the number of inhabitants of the vehicle tax income, and I would be a partner of this, because in many cases the motor vehicles are not responsible for their own settlement, where the owner of the motor vehicle is registered to live. So to make this system more fair, I am an absolute partner, and I would like to, but what is in this proposal, and the result, is not good for me. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu DK.
u2020-10-20-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on two points in the tax laws. Dear Secretary of State, When a budget is drawn up, municipalities must also plan the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. So here's an approved 2011 we are amending the tax law for the state budget, specifically the revenue side will be amended by this law, and I think that the amendment of the budget will follow this, at least in a well-functioning municipality, which is what the State Audit Office of Hungary requires from us, municipalities or all the municipalities in the country. However, I wanted to say that several people mentioned the car tax, which was first regarded as a painful but temporary tax which was temporarily withdrawn because of Covid. We had doubts, of course, and we did not have much illusion in this regard, but this amendment clearly sends a message to the municipalities where they collected a vehicle tax that we lost it permanently. In doing so, the municipalities lost the source of which they were able to improve the roads, because it was already a marked money, so it could not be used for anything. It was used for road repair, parking, urban development of the automotive infrastructure, which was the source of the better municipalities. Obviously, the indebted municipalities may have spent this money on everything and everything, especially if the State Audit Office has not noticed this, but this is what they have observed in larger settlements, where hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue came from it. So now the source that could be built into a parking garage, from which roads can be built, from which the infrastructure relating to transport, including lantern transport, and the source of investment of many things, has been lost by the municipalities. My second point is that they're now taking away the recovery of this. So so far it was, at least for these temporary months, that the municipalities had still collected the tax, but they passed it on in return for some symbolic percentage, the state's sub-contraction had done so. Now, as far as the future is concerned, it appears from the presentation that this apparatus, who has done this so far, will not be needed. In general, the number of tax administrations is quite large, so there is also a message here that these people who have been working on this. My second comment relates to that part of the law, also to the section of the municipal chapter, which deals with business tax. The trade tax, Mr Secretary of State, has also stressed that it is taking place through the NAV in relation to the future. This is not a problem, but a problem because we have bad experiences with centralisation. For example, the so-called centralised kukaholding, whose beautiful philosophy has been painted as to why it is very important that this thing is managed centrally in one hand, this means in a large part of the municipalities that it causes liquidity disruptions, service disruptions, and even a wage-paying problem, this centralisation has been such a good simplification. I am afraid that the arrival of the tax return through the NAV in the municipalities will cause similar disturbances, and this disturbance begins with the fact that they will not contact their taxpayers, let us say, any tax authorities of the municipalities, because the tax return is at NAV and does not arrive here. [[13.50]] I see a lot of practical problems, and I am here to raise them to the Secretary of State. At the same time, it is also suggested that the tax classes, tax departments of taxable persons, the tax administration itself in the municipalities, are also at risk in terms of numbers, so there will probably be a downsizing in this case, if there is any centralisation. We do not see the decree of its implementation, we do not see it, we see only one amendment, but we do not yet see the end of it, how it strikes in the municipalities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not a toy in the municipalities. The main element of the operation of the settlements is the trade tax, and a B version of it has been said here, according to which, where there is a large state investment, for example, the case of Göd is a good example, the trade tax of which remains unchanged through the county, as has already been done with such a rapid amendment, this remains as long as these revenues are held in that settlement. We don't know what that means. If you complete this investment once I have mentioned the case of Göd, for example, when the investment is finished, then the business tax will be forever, permanently from that settlement... So there's two types of business there. One that the company pays to the county, the other that other entrepreneurs pay to the settlement. So there will be a double taxation system or a parallel tax system, an internal competition. Who will be the tax executioner there if there is a situation where, for example, tax execution has to be prepared? The county will have a tax paraphernalia, it will implement it, or how will it work if it continues to order the business tax to the counties, and the settlement, the administratively competent settlement, will look at it from outside? I have made these three comments, and on this basis I dare say such an amendment to the tax law on behalf of the municipalities we cannot support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-20-72	Thank you very much, Congressman László Hajdu. The following representatives spoke by János Bencsik, an independent Member.
u2020-10-20-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that every time we discuss tax laws and tax legislation, especially when there is a general debate, it gives us the opportunity to evaluate the tax system in Hungary in general, and I would like to do so now. First of all, I would like to say that if we look at the perspective of the last ten years, we are pleased to see that a number of taxes have ceased or become more favourable. We see that there are attempts to reduce bureaucracy, electronic administration, this is all very good and correct, and I agree with my fellow opposition Members when they say that, compared to the current average income situation in Hungary, the various taxes and contributions are still too high, so we have no reason to sit back and be satisfied with that. I understand less of the government's ambition to destroy well-functioning, more or less well-functioning structures, and why, for example, the NAV, which is actually operating in the state, is withdrawing from local governments revenue in the form of motor vehicle taxes and other taxes which basically contribute to these municipalities' ability to operate and provide. I also don't understand why one of the most successful forms of enterprise in recent years, Kata, and the benefits of low-tax entrepreneurs, are being tightened so suddenly and to such an extent. I understand when you say that there have been abuses in this regard, and I would like to filter out covert work. I don't dispute the validity of this, but I have the authority of the tax authority and the various bodies. Rather, I feel that there is a very, very bad feeling here, perhaps still left over from pro-state times, which basically sees every taxpayer as a potential fraud and criminal. Now I could say that everyone here is starting out on their own and that the legislator and the executive power are starting out on their own, but I would like to suggest to you, for consideration, that we step back and ask why someone should pay taxes in Hungary today. What right do we have, on what basis do we expect people to pay taxes? Obviously, there are laws to this, but I think that if we're going to lead people through punishment, force them to pay decent taxes, we're on the wrong track. I'd rather be on the side of trying to get people interested in paying taxes instead of punishing them, trying to get out of paying taxes and tricks, tricks, and avoid paying taxes. How can we make Hungarian citizens interested in paying taxes? First or foremost, by example. If the average citizen sees that the holders of power consider this to be binding on themselves and are at the forefront of taxation, not tax avoidance, not the saving of paid taxes in the various creative ways, I think that this can indeed increase the tax morale. The incentives also make sense. If you see that you can track where your tax is being paid, where you are going, where you are being turned, what your tax is being paid, what you see is being built, and what you see even the meaning of it, then you would rather pay this tax. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Dr. András Aradszki.]] It would also not be incidental, and this is particularly relevant at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, and it was also mentioned earlier that if a person, one of the taxpayers, regularly pays taxes and contributions, but in a situation where he cannot do so, the state will give him a helping hand. We can also see efforts in this regard with the interruption of the credit moratorium, but likewise the government has no longer supported the alternative proposals that, for example, would have made a moratorium on forms of pre-saving private pension fund membership, housing savings, life insurance, this proposal has been voted out at Commission level. What we especially do not see is that they would give a helping hand to those who, or because they were exactly catatonic entrepreneurs, and now they cannot register for job search support, or for any other reason, after three months, they would not be able to get a job beyond that. I think that we need a change of attitude in Hungary compared to the dominant, criminal state, which constantly protects, controls, sends authorities, hinges on them, makes sense, over-grabbed rules, compared to this type of state, a state with a service approach, a state with a helping hand, a state with an incentive state. A state that does not want to figure out what people need instead of what they need, but says that we should involve as many people as possible at an earlier stage not only in the laws on different types of taxes, but also in any law that affects their lives, which gives citizens greater say, greater involvement, and brings them closer not only to decision-making, but also to the implementation of decisions and later to control them. Here would be a very important role for the municipalities, and here would be a very important role for civil society organisations, which are also condemned to be dissipated, which have less and less real say in public affairs. This could increase citizens' sense of responsibility and participation in public affairs. I am very curious about the Budapest experiment, which would now decide on the fate of about 1 billion HUF of Budapest's resources by giving a say to the residents of Budapest. I am very curious about the outcome of this currently experimental project. I think that something like this would be worth starting off and thinking together about how we can make people not just sufferers or passive outsiders, viewers of what's going on over their heads, where their taxes are going, but let them have a real, meaningful say in order to have a say in what they spend their money on, and let these money go to a place that helps their lives, makes it easier. [[14.00]] The general relationship between the governments before 2010 and the state was that the state was a bad farmer. It follows from this view that, preferably, each power, source of revenue and control should be withdrawn from the State and given to the private sector, preferably to foreign companies. And then the state leaned back and said I had nothing to do with it. Obviously, in a cynical way, most of the services and companies that were otherwise profitable were sold and those that were not profitable were retained. The profitable companies were sold and the losses were retained by the State. Since 2010, there has been a very different approach, which is only one step better than this, but I think it's just one step better than this, and this is the so-called paternalist view of state, which says that I know everything, and I'll take care of you, all the power to me, all the authority to give me, and I'll decide who needs the help, and I'll decide who I'm going to give to the service, and in return for these services, I expect complete, total addiction and vulnerability. And it is the vulnerability resulting from this addiction that forces people to depend on these public supply systems, and we have seen a number of examples of this when voting. Apart from the bad state and the paternalist state, there is a third model, a third way, and this is the path of civic self-consciousness and civil self-organization to the kind of civic self-consciousness and self-organization that does not think that the citizen has loyalty primarily to his own state. I think that citizens have a fundamental emotional bond to their nation, their community, we are loyal to the nation, and we live the state as a community of mutual benefits, against which they have clear expectations and obligations arising from these clear expectations, which we also respect, and we expect others to respect, especially those who make these laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The degree of loyalty to the state is determined by the state that we maintain for mutual benefit, and the current power that makes the laws and which implements these laws, how much it helps us as individuals, as families, as a community. And I ask you, when we talk about tax laws, when we look at the relationship between the citizen and the power, every single time, let this float before your eyes, every single time, because a successful, prosperous state can only be created by a community of self-conscious and self-organized citizens. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Dr. László Varga will be replaced by Dr. Ádám Steinmetz in the notary seat.]]
u2020-10-20-74	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, LMP.
u2020-10-20-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Let it be clear that when the government said during the spring period that the withdrawal of vehicle tax revenues was a temporary measure, it was a lie, a pure lie on the part of the government, and it was also a lie on the part of the pro-government representatives who supported the measures. At the previous item on the agenda today, we had a debate with Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, who resented the fact that I said that the government affected the municipalities with severe restrictions. I'm holding on to that statement. As part of a austerity package, we can talk about the withdrawal of a vehicle tax, which was completely unnecessary. We agree that everyone should play their part in the defence, but this would have been credible if the government had, first of all, stopped gigantic projects that didn't make any sense, whose return couldn't be guaranteed. This year, the withdrawal of vehicle tax revenues meant approximately HUF 35 billion in revenue, and if you look at this year's Budapest-Belgrád railway expenditure alone, it amounts to 85 billion. So we can say that if this completely pointless project, which is contrary to national interests, had been stopped, there would have been no need for such restrictions, and for example, it would not have been necessary to take 20 billion forints from universities, thereby causing huge damage. I also think it is a very bad approach that the Secretary of State has said that they will be watching which settlements may cause unmanageable, serious problems, and then there will be some sort of aid application. I think it is quite clear that during the coronal virus epidemic, the municipalities are the number one bastion of defense, faced with a huge additional task compared to what they normally have to do in peacetime. And we know that, in particular, small settlements do not have sufficient resources to carry out these basic and most important tasks. In this way, to take steps to withdraw already scarce resources, and then, if a municipality is in a situation that is completely impossible, to apply for some kind of extraordinary support, is an extremely bad approach. I looked around, and I think everyone as a Member of Parliament can do that, how much this government austerity affected their immediate living environment, we can say that there were a lot of government restrictions, but how much the income from the car tax only meant for this year. I did it, I looked around, I looked at the exact numbers, I even contacted the mayors of my living environment, and I asked their opinion about it. In the case of Pécs, the government lost HUF 455 million, Komló lost HUF 51 million, Kozármisleny lost HUF 27 million, Berkesd small settlement HUF 1.4 million, Bogád HUF 2.8 million, Cherkút HUF 4.3 million, Kővászőszőlős HUF 5.5 million, Manfa village HUF 1.9 million, Orfű 4 million, Pereked HUF 924,000, Romonya HUF 2.6 million, Szilágy settlement, which lost a small settlement, HUF 600 thousand. I asked the mayors: there was a settlement where the mayor actually said that business tax revenues were so significant compared to the size of the settlement that this alone did not mean a major loss, but there was a mayor who said that withdrawal caused a very, very difficult situation, and that the settlement was actually forced to cut down, and that was the majority. They told me, especially the small town mayors, that the withdrawal of the car tax caused serious problems. And I certainly don't have to add that in the case of Pécs, which is struggling with a huge, nearly 20 billion-dollar outflow, this loss of HUF 455 million is an almost untraceable situation. So it's a restriction that's beyond reason, and it's a restriction that puts these municipalities in a very difficult position. I say that this measure and this lie, that the government wants to enforce this not only this year, but also in the coming years, as a permanent situation, is definitely an attack on the local government, but the point is that this is an attack on the people living in Hungarian cities and in Hungarian villages. Therefore, for this reason alone and in addition to the problems and shortcomings previously identified, we will vote against this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and independent representatives.]]
u2020-10-20-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. The next speaker is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-10-20-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue my previous speech on a few further issues, one of which is the abolition of excise duty on brandy. I was shocked myself when I looked at the statistics that each Hungarian citizen consumes 12,4 liters of brandy a year, from the infant to the old man. I'd like to ask you who drinks 72 liters of my family, because we certainly don't. I wish to stress that I am well aware that the tradition, social acceptance and historical role of the pálinka as a drink is very strong in Hungary, a drink that strengthens the cohesion of friendly communities, it is not a question, a national drink, rather than a whiskey, who drink, but I think that there is a limit to making such an activity completely tax-free. Even when it was the very first suggestion in 2010, that really what families produce for their own consumption by brewing their own fruits, and that the consumption should be free of excise duty, I said that if that is what society is looking for right now, so be it. But to make the whole pálinka cooking activity virtually free of excise duty in this business, I find it unacceptable. We all know, as my fellow Members have already said, that we are the country of one million alcoholics. Of the million alcoholics, I'm sure there are a very large number of people who drink burnt liquor and not beer or wine. One thing is certain: these people are a terrible financial burden to the Hungarian health care system, extremely serious. [[14.10]] And here is a government who suggests that even the potentially expensive factor that really means taxing all over the world should be abolished for this product. And I join my fellow Member, Antal Csárdi: if you do not need, for example, the tax revenue of this, why do you not like to say that the fruit and vegetables produced in Hungary are VAT-free? Why not? Could be zero-percent VAT. The EU does not say that it cannot be zero-percent VAT. Do we want to support Hungarian agriculture? Do we want Hungarian goods on the Hungarian vegetable shelves? We want it. Why don't you take care of that? What is it, or why is this pálinka issue such a prime question? Seriously. I so want someone to explain this to me. There is, I think, three or four of our fellow Members, Sándor Font, who is most aware of this, press a button and tell me why this schnapps is so important to get such a huge discount, that, thank God, there are many families who will never be consumed, so they really won't be burdened with their wallets. However, we see that the cheaper it is to get it, the easier it is to get it, the more our alcoholic compatriots consume it and destroy their health, and then remain under the burden of the health care system. So that's what I wanted to say about the schnapps question. With regard to the trade tax, although there is only one such technical amendment tabled here in this proposal, I would like to take this opportunity to talk about it as well. I, too, have always thought that business tax is completely unfair, with businesses paying business tax operating in a particular settlement, and the business result produced in this settlement is not produced by the people living in the settlement, but by workers coming from countless nearby settlements. And what happens in the meantime? Where most of the workers come from, the settlement does not benefit from it at all, and it is the one settlement where the company has its registered office, and after a while it has nothing to do with the collection of the business tax. For example, such was the Veresegyház, and many more can be said, Budaörs, who bathed in the business tax income, although that production value was very largely not brought together by the inhabitants of the settlement. And where they come from, there may be hardly any companies that would pay for it. So I always thought it was unfair in this way, I thought that regions should be created, like a population of 50,000 and 80,000, and to say that people mostly come from these distances to work, so that what comes from business tax revenue in this region is given to settlements in proportion to the number of inhabitants. More just than that, since there's a business tax, I don't think it can be distributed. But the fact that in such a difficult situation, when the pandemic forced the municipalities to do a great job, they had a great deal of tasks that they didn't expect, for which they didn't have infrastructure, for which they didn't have a professional, for which they didn't have procedures, so they had to learn to cope very, very much with the crisis. During such a period, the municipalities should be deprived of two such horribly serious tax revenues, and I also think that it was very inappropriate. We're still getting it temporarily, but not permanently. I, too, think that you must pay taxes and do so for what is intended. So people are not for taxes, but the tax is for people to get their service needs, which are natural in relation to a state or municipality. It is also important that people know what this tax is being paid for, which was just said by my fellow Member, Mr János Bencsik. But when they see that certain tax types are being used by the government as an important system of organization to bleed out local governments, and when the government provides for the spending of budget resources, it is very generous with organisations whose social benefits we do not see at all. And I don't want to scoop up, and I don't want to go yachting and László Szíyj and László Mészáros, but we see that during the pandemic, there was so much money spilled out of the state budget for invisible activities that it could be rightfully asked by the mayor of a settlement of two or three thousand people: at least why didn't they leave this little income here for us when we have so much burden? I must say, Mr Secretary, that the last ten months have been harsh on the municipalities, at least in this matter. It amends the laws on the rules of taxation in an amazing extent, accounting, the Chamber of Auditors, it really contains an amazing number of other technical amendments, and I don't even want to talk about the details of these. I would rather say that while there are really positive, relaxing rules in this proposal on a very large number of issues, there are good rules for citizens, and that is one of these issues of car and car taxation and business taxation, which punches society in the face and slaps society in the face. And I think that it is extremely difficult to say to a man, after it is also a salad law, that, of course, I will vote for this, because there are positive elements in it, but then the voter asks whether it is for this or for that, tell me why you liked to give your consent. And then there's really not a good answer. So, with all due respect, I would like to ask the financial government to focus on ensuring that the country's financial viability exists. You can defy the expectations of the oligarchs around the head of government, and be prepared to be sure that by 22:00 there will be issues that society, if it suffers from this epidemic, with a very large number of existential vulnerability, you will have to account for what you have done to prevent this from happening. Because you won't be able to pin everything on the plague. Thank you very much. [[János Bencsik applauds.]]
u2020-10-20-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I'll give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor in two minutes.
u2020-10-20-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Not only because of the address, but also because of our opposition fellow Members in several places with a theatrical scene, but only because of the pálinka, as if that were the most serious issue of the tax law. This shows that they do not fully understand that this is not the most serious issue in relation to society, but those which give these extremely large benefits, as we have heard from the government's author and the leaders of the governing parties. I will not repeat these, but the mistakes and completely misinterpreted thoughts that are being said in a theatrical way about brandy are rejected. The main reason is that the excise duty is not exempt from all of the pálinkas placed on the market, but only those which cannot be placed on the market, which are home brewing and pálinkas produced in the context of wage brewing. For the home brewing, it was an extremely minimal tax content, I could say that it was zero, undetected, but it had one, and half and 50 percent of the excise duty rate for the pálinkas was the rate of alcohol paid. This was one of the reasons for the fight with the Union in 2004 that it was adopted at a rate of 50 per cent. There is a very heated debate in the EU on the rates of pálinkas cooked at home in Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania. This is where the EU has now cut loose and said that there is zero tax on these. Do you understand? Not bottled, commercialized products! They are subject to a fairly high rate of taxation, excise duty rates, VAT and public health product tax when they are able to monitor all the loading charges. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'll continue with another two-minute claim.
u2020-10-20-80	Thank you very much. I'll ask him. [[For signal:]] Yeah, there's two more minutes. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea! [[14.20]]
u2020-10-20-81	Thank you for the floor. But now I'm gonna stick to Congressman Font's speech because he said we're talking about private-cooked brandys, right? [[Sándor Font: And the cook!]] and the cook, which are not marketed. Okay. Here's the next one. These products are produced or produced by nature because nature produces the products with zero excise duty, but may be marketed by certain procedures, because this is not excluded. Why not? What kind of competitive advantage is this for those who, while producing for private cooking or making for private cooking, and then producing so much, since there is no quantitative limit now to say that they will put a pretty label on it and put it on the commercial market, of course, through a proper licence and other procedures, will they submit it? What kind of competitive advantage is that? Because he was not charged with excise duty at the time of production, while in any way, wherever it is produced, in any manufacture, the excise duty charge is already there. So I just wanted to say that Mr Font Sándor could have said that, but please, the brandy national drink that we produce in private cooking or in wage brewing, we simply want to drink this, if someone wants to drink burnt spirits and not vodka and not whiskey and not, I don't know, other popular drinks, then this should be the brandy, and we want to prefer this activity, this basically private activity. Yes, the European Union simply said zero because it was [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That he wants to get through this whole pálinkasztorin thing. Thank you. Excuse me.
u2020-10-20-82	Thank you very much. Honourable Mr Alexander Font, President of the Commission. I can't say anything for two minutes, but I can say it for 15 minutes. [[For signal:]] You have the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-10-20-83	Thank you very much. I will far from exhaust the time frame of the normal speech, but these serious mistakes that my fellow Member has made here, I would like to reject and clarify. We are for those of us who understand better, much better, what is the situation of pálinka in Hungary, and they would not make statements that the pálinkas produced in private cooking and in wage cooking, which will now be zero-taxed, would then be traded. They can't be traded, and the rules also clarify how much can be boiled by one person. These are very limited and very strictly controlled areas. The other issue is that there are always villains who cheat this situation, it is a regrettable fact, the NAV has quite serious intelligence data on this, but this does not mean that at system and operational level, someone is now making zero taxes on schnapps, and then it appears in commercial circulation. This is the most serious abuse of excise duty, which has a set of penalties that the person caught will be forced to compensate for a considerable amount of property for the punishment imposed by the NAV. So let's not visualize something that can't be, to be exact: whoever's cheating the law may be, but there's an extremely big threat behind it if he wants to play it. The tax system allows, among extremely strict rules for cooking quantities, only which individual can have cooking, where it should be declared, and how much this quantity can be. I'm asking you very nicely to separate the home-cooked pálinka, the kettled pálinka and the commercial pálinka. I see that you have failed in all respects, so you will wash them together, and with the zero tax rate it will now be permitted by the European Union and not the invention of the Hungarian government to clarify this as well, as a direct threat, to bring about competition competition in the free market and then free market and ordinary tax rates; this cannot be normal. The fact that scoundrels are playing this out is, unfortunately, possible, as with everything, that you don't go with fifty in a populated area, but with seventy, there is such a thing, bear the consequences. It can be, and it does, and the tax authorities have discovered a number of such cases. Unfortunately, I have to say not enough, because we also see that it does not discover enough in some places in terms of abuse. As to your mistake that in Hungary there are 12,4 litres of pure alcohol consumption, please read every sentence of the statistical data. For a country, annual pure alcohol consumption is calculated as a statistical procedure, with all the alcohol consumed, beer, wine, brandy, burnt alcohol and the rest being converted into so-called pure alcohol, 100 per cent alcohol. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] and thus show each country how much they consider to be the so-called clean spirit consumption of the population per capita in each country. This is around 12 litres in Hungary (Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervenes.) , but let me indicate that this includes all Hungarian wines, beer, brandy, burnt spirits and all other dog ears, every alcoholic beverage, which was then converted to pure alcohol, a litre of alcohol at 100 per cent. So don't say that in Hungary 12 liters of brandy are drunk by an average person, that's what you said in your speech. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Then why...]] From the baby to the eldest, that's not true. It is true that 12,4 litres is the last alcohol consumption in Hungary converted to pure alcohol in 2015 per capita, but in this, thank God, there is the amount of wine produced here in Hungary. Imagine that wine consumption is 23 litres per capita in Hungary, 42-46 litres in wine-producing countries, France, Italy and Spain, so we are still very much below this. But this alcohol is also included, but it's only calculated to a degree. I would ask you to make a more precise statement here in Parliament, because the laymen who read us, who might be viewers, students, and the transcripts, are completely misguided because of your lack of knowledge. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-84	Thank you very much, President of the Commission, Mr Font. For two minutes, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm would like to speak.
u2020-10-20-85	Thank you very much for Mr Font Sándor's education, because he painted an even worse picture. It's true, I forgot to tell you that this 12,4 liters is pure alcohol. This means that if we are talking about 6-7 percent beer and 12 percent wine, and let's say 40 percent pálinka really is from an infant to an old man, then alcohol consumption is 70-80 litres per person in Hungary. In a way, this paints an even worse picture of Hungarian society, so I would rather not brag about it. And then I'm gonna tell you not to drink 72 liters of my family, but I'm gonna tell you who's gonna drink 250 liters of my family. So I would like to say one thing: I would like the Hungarian Parliament to be more responsible and more responsible about the question that alcohol consumption can indeed be a small amount of medicine, and that a social life is indeed a limited part of its natural component, but it should not be a way to drink alcohol, because it makes people an alcoholic, they become sick, and taxpayers have to cure and keep these people alive for a long period of time. I do not want Hungary to be a cultural country of alcohol. Indeed, the natural consequence of our culture is a certain low level of consumption, but this is far from what statistical data, for example, provides. So thank you for the lecture, and I think more and more that Parliament should address this issue or the issue of alcohol consumption even more responsibly.
u2020-10-20-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. If you wish to summarise what was said in the debate with the rapporteur, I will give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert.
u2020-10-20-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was a very long debate, and interestingly, comments were grouped around two or three themes, in a very diverse time. I'll try to go through it on time, but I'll make it very short, given that it's been a very long debate. The very first suggestion is Mrs Potocska, who no longer hears my answer as to the consultation with the Tax Advisors' Association regarding e-VAT. Here I have to say that there has been a three-year consultation in this tax administration reduction. [[14.30]] We believe that this is the greatest administrative reduction in this package. The success of e-sya is known to many of us. What we need to see is that this e-VAT is a much bigger, multiplely more difficult challenge than your e-say, I think we are talking about a huge reduction in administration. So there is more than three years of consultation with professional organisations, there was a tax consultation, tax consultation by the NAV, and the Competitiveness Council also examined this issue, so that we can reduce tax administration. This issue is important, and one of the main drivers of the whole tax package is that we also need to reduce tax administration, as the cost of money for companies. Reducing tax administration saves businesses money. To say a number, the latest survey shows that tax administration is in Hungary, for example, in line with the countries of the region, 1.7 percent of the company's turnover. So it's almost as high as the business tax. So if we reduce this administration, we can free companies at tens of thousands of forints. It was a very important mistake in the Member's speech that this would be an administrative surplus for accountants, and that triple work for accountants, and that the tax authority would force taxpayers to do something they didn't want. It's very important that this is an option. So the tax authority offers a draft to the taxpayer, who, if he does not wish, will not use this plan and submit his own VAT return, and if he wants to make use of it, he will obviously be able to do so in a much simpler way. It is very important that, if it is a triple job for the tax advisor, but in any case, it may be half a job for the taxpayer, and we must consider the latter. So we need to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers, businesses. I think that's always been our main focus. It is very important, it has also been said, that the elements of the right to deduct cannot be judged by the tax authority. We agree, that's how we made this system. So how the taxpayer intends to make use of the right to deduct will depend on each taxpayer's own decision. The tax authority will draw up a draft in which it will be easy for the taxpayer to indicate which deductions and what timetable it intends to apply. There won't be a simpler way to prepare tax returns. What we see from our analysis is that about two thirds of businesses may be able to accept this declaration automatically without major changes, and there will be a minority obviously who export, carry out more complicated administration, they must touch the tax return, the NAV will not have all the information, but the majority of taxpayers, and especially the smaller ones, think that it will be an automatically acceptable declaration, but it is very important that the taxpayer should continue to submit and accept this declaration. There have also been a lot of discussions about the catamodation. The reason why this amendment has not been made here in the expo is because there is now a technical amendment to the Kata package. The substantive change in the kata rule was made in the spring, so I also reject the comment that there was a short period of time and little time for preparation. For this reason, in the spring session, the government and Parliament adopted the change to give time to entrepreneurs who have lived and abused me, and I will put the advantage of the kata in parentheses to prepare for this change. So it was a very long time, more than six months to prepare for this. It is very important that there is also a multi-annual discussion and analysis in the background in the context of the cata change. So it didn't come out this spring either, that this amendment had to be made at some level. We've been looking at the kata processes for years, and I agree with the long-term outlook that the kata has effects that are unfortunate. It is no coincidence that the tax authority has sent multiple letters to the miners, showing, for example, the benefit of paying HUF 75,000 instead of HUF 50,000, what supply surplus, what pension surplus, what monetary subsidy surplus they can receive if they use this option. The tax authority has done everything in its power to provide taxpayers with easily understandable information about the uncertainty about the cata, the rules on the pension system. So I think we've done a lot of things. A very important change in the Kata, in the broad social consultation, must be seen that the current amendment of the kata, which was adopted by Parliament in the spring, does not in any way affect about three quarters of the catapults, i.e. 340 thousand cataclysms. That is what I would like to emphasise. So most catnips have never been able to issue high-value bills in their life. Most clicks do not have the possibility of billing 250 thousand HUF 300 thousand to a client, so the vast majority of clicks, 340 thousand clicks, did not issue more than 3 million HUF invoices to a given partner. So we've looked at this individually, each one of them has the data anonymously, and we can see that the vast majority of the clicks can't take advantage of it. They take advantage of this opportunity, and I also refer here to what has been said earlier, that concealing employment, concealing very similar relationships to employment, including, say, contracts of engagements, and transforming relationships that are practically operating in a single channel system. You do not necessarily have to talk about employment here; lawyers, consultants, counsellors may all be in a position not to have an employment relationship, but to be billed to a particular principal. The greatest advantage of the catatonic amendment adopted in spring is that it does not affect 340 thousand catatonics at all, and those affected by it are the few tens of thousands of catatonics, also indirectly, because the tax is on the principal. It has been suggested in several cases that the client will obviously pass this on to the dictionaries. I ask the tax advisors and all the representatives here that at that time the individuals who claim that this cata, the 40 percent tax burden, will be passed on, let us see that when they were forced into, say, an entrepreneur in this catalysm, they increased, let us say, their net income by 20-30-40 percent. Couldn't it be that the paying agent or the employer has actually been doing well with this tax system for years? I'm asking everyone to calculate these differences. Speaking of kata, let me give you some figures. I think that the undisputed thing from the Hungarian government is that we have been reducing the burden of the employer very drastically and very gradually, systematically for years. I've got some. Therefore, it should also be noted that the tax burden was indeed very high. To give you a number, 53 percent was the tax wedge a few years back. So 53 percent of the employer's total cost was the tax burden, and this was what we had to do, and ten years of work we were now able to take it down to 43 percent, which is already the midfield in the regional competition. So now it's 43 percent labor tax wedge. So a teacher, a medical worker, a civil servant, faces a 43 percent tax wedge. If it's an assignment, it's about 41 percent. So it must be seen that this tax wedge, about 40 percent, is what is charged to this payment in relation to work and work-like relationships. In the current system of rules in force today, this tax wedge goes from 20 percent to 5 percent; the higher the turnover of the cataclysm, the smaller the tax wedge. So 20 percent of those who can only bill 3 million forints, 12 million forints, are down to 5 percent. So this tax wedge is constantly decreasing. The new amendment, which will enter into force from 1 January next year, will change so much that the 20 percent tax wedge will go up to 26.9 percent. So organisations and perhaps less informed associations are alarming me by what a massive, drastic tax increase will be here from 1 January. What's going to happen is that the 20 percent tax wedge goes up to 26.9 percent, in the extreme case of a catnip entrepreneur billing a company for HUF 12 million. So it must be seen that this is still very far from the tax wedges in the area of 40 percent, which is loaded on the burden of work, and it is also very far from the number that applies, say, to income extracted from the enterprise, i.e. dividend income. It has to be seen that the tax burden on a person to issue an invoice from his company specifically for only one company will be virtually identical to that of the dividend income. So we're not talking about a far-reaching tax increase that would make entrepreneurs impossible. In fact, we have taken steps towards a fair tax system and a clean tax system, and I also stress, specifically, those who are lucky enough to be able to issue high-value invoices from month to month. There will be no increase in financial or administrative burdens for small-value catnips who issue their invoices to private individuals as of 1 January. So it is very important that there will be no negative change in residential B2C sales. [[14.40]] The other very controversial topic will be the change in the tax on motor vehicles. Here I may have to come back on this subject several times, because many Members have brought this up. There were basic professional mistakes in the comments. So the car tax is not a local tax revenue. The car tax is a central tax revenue. Central tax revenue had a feature that the local tax authority helped to collect it, and therefore there was a 40 percent transfer of revenue to municipalities, but this has always been central tax revenue. At the meeting of the budget for 2021, it was decided in spring that the whole of this central revenue would remain in the central budget. What is now in the tax package applies only to, or regulates, the fact that the revenue of the central budget will be the tax on motor vehicles in year 21 would be unjustified, but the burden of collection itself would be left to the municipalities. I wonder how motivated the municipal tax authority would be who, although no longer receives this 40 percent income, but in return has to administer it and have to paper it? That is why the tax authority is now taking over this burden from the municipalities. The logic of the tax on the distribution of resources has nothing to do with the rules contained in the current tax package, and I would like to emphasise this. Also here, Mr László Szakács indicated that the business tax will be collected by the NAV. It is very important that there is no change in the business tax, so the business tax has been declared through the NAV since 2017. So the sending of the tax return could also be done directly and through the NAV. What is happening now is that the tax declaration can only be made through the NAV so that a uniform, digitised and simple form can be used. However, all the powers of taxation remain with the municipalities, there will be no damage to the municipal tax authority, so he will also levy the tax, he will set the rules, he will set the discounts, and he will collect the tax and he will examine the tax. So here is a very important change or very important correction that there is no tax centralisation in this regard. It has occurred that the Hungarian tax system has also been criticised for its justice in the comments of Mr Szakács. Here let me refer to a new survey, Hungary operates the 14th most competitive tax system in its global analysis of Tax Foundation. I think that this is a value that we must continue to maintain, so we are taking steps towards a fair tax system and a competitive tax system, and I think that this is justified by international economic policy. It has also been said by Mr Cook that we will not reduce the burden on SMEs. That's interesting to hear, coupled with the argument that we're here for the kata... [[Károly Kontrat: The congressman is not here.]] I hope you'll read the report. So, I think that over 400,000 employees of the Kata and over 50,000 users of the Kiva can clearly show that we are giving a lot of benefits to small entrepreneurs, and we also believe that small entrepreneurs need a completely different tax system and that they are assisted by a tax system than large entrepreneurs. I'll try to keep it short. Congressman Antal Csárdi has indicated VAT reductions. Here, let me point out that targeted VAT reductions have been made, where the government has seen that there is a possibility and there is a positive benefit to this VAT reduction that has taken place there. Consider meat products, offal, milk, fish and egg products, VAT reductions have been made here. Since then, we have been stressing that VAT reductions should only take place as specifically targeted measures, since prices are not affected by VAT. Prices are mainly influenced by supply and demand, competition and international positions. It was very good to see that if there is a VAT reduction, but then there is an avian flu, then the price of the egg will not go down, but upward. Similarly, if there is a drought year or an ice damage, the price of vegetables will go up regardless of VAT, this is the logic of the functioning of the market. With regard to the brandy, I really do not draw the floor, because Congressman Font responded, because I was personally invited here to what I was giving my little boy, apples or brandy, obviously I will give an apple, that is not even a question. After all, it is very important to see in the case of brandy that we are talking about such a high-quality drink, compared to what it is made of, say, a whiskey, or see what other burnt spirits are made of, say, vodka, and see what the brandy is made of. It should be seen that the cost of producing this is extremely high. It could also have been brought into this debate that brandy is an extremely expensive and extremely high-quality drink, so those who are looking for the cheapest alcohol will not touch the schnapps, because it is not the cheapest alcohol. This may be the highest quality alcohol, but it is not the cheapest, so the 50 percent excise duty charge may influence the choice of which product to remove from the shelves of the shops. With regard to the personal discount, Andrea Varga-Damm is only informed that 283,000 people have used this personal discount, which has been a tax benefit so far, and now it is a tax benefit, but it offers the same benefit to taxpayers. I would also like to tell Mr Hajdu that he has indicated that the revenue side will obviously be changed, as the municipalities must correct this change in the tax on motor vehicles in their budgets. They do not need to change their budget, because this amendment was adopted in spring, and now it is only the feet of the tax administration that are tied up, so they could get to know its revenue leg during the spring session and take their budgets in the light of the rules adopted during the spring session. It was also said that this work was done in exchange for a symbolic percentage, 40 percent of the income was passed through. Two speeches raised what would happen to the work of the representatives of the local government if this task was transferred to the tax authority. Here it is to be seen that at two times in the car taxation period, because twice a year there is a phase in which municipal workers have to do a large or large administrative work due to the imposition and taxation of taxes, so there is typically no municipal worker who only deals with motor vehicle taxes. This needs to be done practically campaigning twice a year, so in our view, every municipal worker will only be relieved of a burden during these two periods of the year, but otherwise, his work is naturally needed in another field, and we believe that we can free up capacities, and that the tax authority will be responsible for building capacities who can do this campaign-like activity twice this year. One final remark to Mr Bencsik, this will no longer be so technical, he criticized the tax system and the tax morale, that the tax authority is doing nothing for it, and that the Hungarian tax morale is not good. I have to say that in recent years, since I have been paying close attention to tax administration, tax morale has been able to improve at a level that has not been experienced in recent decades, but I could say a longer time horizon. If we look at VAT, which is the most accepted measure of the tax ethic of a country by the European Commission, we were able to go from 23 per cent to 6 per cent, around 6.6 per cent, which means that Hungary could not collect a quarter of the VAT ten years ago, and now we cannot collect 6.6 per cent of VAT because the Hungarian economy has become so white. So I have to say that the whitening of the economy, the improvement of the tax ethic, voluntary compliance has resulted in a massive increase in tax revenue, and this enormous increase in tax revenue has made it possible for the government, by the way, to reduce the burden of living work, to reduce the tax burden that this whitening and voluntary compliance have created. So I think that we have nothing to be ashamed of in this area, and we have been able to deliver extremely serious results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-88	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert, for the final thoughts of the debate. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Jakab wishes to address the T/13261. During the general debate on bill No 1. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to allow Vice-President István Jakab to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of the Members present have accepted the motion. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending individual laws in connection with registers and electronic administration will follow up until closure. Government referral T/13262. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-20-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us aims to review and renew key IT systems and electronic registers. As a result of the changes, the background processes will be faster and facilitate the lives of Hungarian citizens, in many cases eliminating personal administration. This is particularly important at this time of epidemic, and therefore as many cases as possible need to be handled safely. The bill contains amendments to 24 laws. Some laws involve technical changes, others, as I have said, simplify and make the legislation in force more practical and understandable. Further development and renewal of the national data wealth register system is necessary in relation to the project, the NAVISZ project, to review existing legislation in accordance with specific criteria. It is important to highlight the partial renewal of identity cards. The European Union has introduced a uniform regime for EU citizens' identity cards, which will enter into force in August 2021. Uniform EU legislation is necessary because EU citizenship gives all citizens of the Union, including Hungarian citizens, the right to free movement, but in the absence of regulation, the level of security of national identity cards issued by Member States would vary considerably, and these derogations would increase the risk of counterfeiting and misuse of documents. Dear Parliament, The electronic identity card introduced in Hungary in 2016 and equipped with chips is one of the most modern in the Union. Given that Hungary has already partially complied with EU standards, minimal measures are needed, as the chip on the ID card must also include the fingerprints of the holder in addition to his facial image. The placing of fingerprints on the ID card in Hungary has been optional so far, but will be mandatory as of 2 August 2021. Only children under 6 years of age are exempted from this. A permanent identity card shall be issued for a period of one year to nationals who are temporarily physically unable to provide fingerprints. I would like to note here that the institution of identity cards issued for an indefinite period will cease to exist, under EU legislation these documents will have to be issued with a period of validity of six years. An exception shall be to persons aged 70 and who may request the issue of the document with a period of validity of 10 years. With regard to the application for a home address notification, it is important to note that it will include data on the official identity certificate and the fact that it is capable of acting. This is particularly necessary in order to ensure a clear definition of civil procedural capacity. The legality of each procedure will therefore be beyond doubt ensured. Dear Parliament, The management licence and vehicle registration systems are also subject to complete IT renewal, in which we plan to establish a direct IT data link between the IT systems of these registers and other state registers. This aims to improve the public credibility and accuracy of recorded data and to reduce the administrative burden on citizens. This will allow a number of transport management issues to be launched by electronic means, and public administration will also be simplified in a number of areas. A register of origin shall be established containing the main data on used vehicles imported from abroad for the purpose of domestic entry into service. The entry into service of a vehicle in Hungary is carried out with the registration of a vehicle. The treatment of previous data is conceptually excluded and it is therefore necessary to name this register as a separate sub-registration. According to the bill, vehicle owners will no longer be obliged to verify the conclusion of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance as the vehicle registration system will have access to the necessary information by automatic data link. The distribution of electronic administration and the administrative use of IT tools are facilitated by the development of administrative terminals, called kiosks. The purpose of this is to allow the citizen who has personally appeared to be able to handle his affairs quickly and easily with the help of the kiosk instead of the administrator. It constitutes a kind of transition between electronic administration and personal administration. According to the government's plans, kiosks will appear in more and more locations across the country and will allow more and more cases to be handled without the direct involvement of officials. In addition, it is important to contact the data providers, i.e. Hungarian citizens, in the most efficient way during retail surveys. The introduction of this is essential for decision-makers to be informed on the basis of adequate and credible data. A new opportunity has been created for natural persons to be contacted electronically by the Central Statistical Office. This is particularly important in cases such as epidemics, since data can be taken without personal contact. In addition to efficiency, this solution is also an important risk management tool. The bill will comply with the Constitutional Court's decision by amending the Violation Act, in which the Honourable Parliament was called upon by the Violation Act 172. § 121 and 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to align its Articles with the constitutional right to appeal. Accordingly, the bill ensures that decisions announced at the hearing are entered in writing within three working days, ensures that written decisions are known and that the appeal submitted under the decision is supplemented or amended. Dear Parliament, In order to ensure electronic administration, the government has developed a digital environment that ensures the electronic interaction of public bodies with one another, while building electronic communication for citizens and businesses with the State. The creation of these contacts is a public task, and the creation of relations between businesses and with citizens is primarily a market task. As digitalisation progresses, market participants seek a technological solution that guarantees the identification of citizens and businesses, ensures the credibility of their declarations and ensures the transfer of authentic personal data. The above expectations are similar to the sphere of government electronic administration. In the case of the financial sector, it is in the public interest that, in accordance with Hungarian and EU rules, the identification of the client should be credible, guaranteed by the state in the digital sphere as well. Under the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, customer due diligence can now take place in person as well as through electronic communications. The bill provides an opportunity for a customer with an electronic identification service, typically a customer gate, to log directly into the service provider's system. Thus, your data will be electronically checked, reducing the burden of personal appearance. The bill also lays down the rules for data processing related to the log system. Data processing in public-credited central registers in the data management of the Ministry of Interior is subject to the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation. The General Data Protection Regulation itself does not provide for the obligation to log data processing operations, but contains requirements that make this necessary. On the other hand, the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information contains horizontal rules on electronic logs. Sectoral registration laws currently contain provisions on data transmission records, but do not provide for logging. Therefore, it is necessary in the sectoral registration laws to determine the purpose and conditions of data processing, the type of personal data subject to data processing, the data controller's identity, the ability to know the data, restrictions on the purposes of data processing, the duration of storage, data storage, and the measures necessary to ensure legitimate and fair data processing. [[15.00]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also point out that the mandatory application of Regulation (EU) 2019/452 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for screening foreign direct investment in the Union, which will be due on 11 October 2020, makes it essential to amend the law and its implementing regulation for harmonisation purposes. Regardless of the EU regulation, last year, the Government Audit Office carried out an examination of the practical application of the Hungarian legislation on security control of foreign investments. The current changes to the rules stem from the findings of the investigation. One of the main policy objectives of the review was to reduce the discretion of the public and public bodies entrusted with the control of foreign investments in Hungary's security interests, thereby making the regulation more predictable. Dear Parliament, The adoption of the bill makes life easier for citizens, enhances the security of personal data and is an effective tool to avoid personal handling in an epidemic situation, so the administration would not stop, it would be even simpler, it would be more efficient, it would be more beneficial for citizens. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you with respect that this bill be discussed and accepted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-90	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Dávid Héyj, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. And I'm handing this meeting over to my vice-president, Dr. Brenner Koloman. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]]
u2020-10-20-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to review and renew IT systems and electronic registers of high importance for the electronicisation of administrative procedures, such as the IT system for personal data and address card registration, the IT systems for road transport and related registers and the IT systems for document registers enabling identification. I would also like to emphasise here, at the beginning of my speech, that the renewal of the registers belonging to these three large groups will not only result in the acceleration of the background processes, but will also result in a clear change for Hungarian citizens. Dear House, We can see that the present proposal seeks to amend and redefine a number of legislative provisions. The Secretary of State described in detail in his exposé the concept of a wide-ranging amendment to the laws covered by the draft law, so I merely want to reflect on the main points of the proposal. The draft submitted envisages a partial renewal of identity cards. This amendment is essential from a legal harmonisation point of view, given the fact that the European Union will introduce uniform rules governing the content and form requirements of documents issued by Member States for all EU citizens with effect from August 2021. It is almost natural for us to exercise the right of free movement and residence as a result of EU citizenship, which in practice means that we can travel freely from one Member State to another with a valid ID card, but, in the absence of uniform rules, the level of security of national identity cards may vary significantly and differences between the different national regulations increase the risk of counterfeiting and misuse of documents. Allow me to point out here that the electronic identity card introduced in our country in 2016 with chips, which is one of the most modern in the EU, meets the criteria set out now, and that the placing of fingerprints on the ID card in Hungary has already been an optional option, while the EU intends to introduce it as a novum from August next year on the basis of compliance with EU Regulation 2019/1157. It is therefore obvious that our national law must only make minimal amendments in this area. I would like to point out that the proposal intends to introduce a so-called log system, which means that in order to verify the legality of processing operations carried out by electronic means with personal data and to guarantee the integrity and security of personal data, the body managing the register will record all information related to the processing operation carried out in the register in an automated data management system. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all citizens welcome the amendment under which the authority will be able to access the necessary information by electronic data link rather than a document on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. In this way, the client will not need to prove the existence of liability insurance during the procedure, as IT systems will do so in the future. I would like to point out that the bill also clarifies the concept of vehicle registration. The deployment of kiosk terminals, also referred to by the Secretary of State, is a forward-looking idea for the spread of electronic administration and the administrative use of IT tools, since the kiosk, whose procedural status is well settled by the bill, constitutes a transition between traditional personal administration and electronic administration with the assistance of officials. The Government's plan to make more and more kiosks appear in different parts of the country is also welcome, which will gradually allow more and more cases to be handled. It is a well-known fact that in order for decision-makers to be informed on the basis of accurate data from up-to-date and credible sources, careful and prudent work by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office is essential. For this reason, it should be possible for KSH to be able to contact reporting agents in the most efficient way during retail surveys. This objective is met by the provision of the proposal that the HCSO will in the future receive some of the citizens' registered contact details for the reason that they are not disturbed by either mail or personal visits or by the interviewing commissioner in cases where the collection of personal data by means of a personal search is simply impossible. If we take as an example the coronal virus epidemic, this also supports the fact that in such a situation contact with electronic contact points is significantly smoother, and in this case, the key word is, in parallel with increasing efficiency and efficiency, improvement in quality. It is also necessary to clarify, inter alia, the Act on the Management and Protection of Personal Health Data and on the Civil Registration Procedure, as regards the provisions on deletion after the processing or transmission of People's Movement Data by KSH. Dear Parliament, In the text of the bill, we read that the Hungarian government has established an electronic environment that provides citizens and businesses with electronic contact with the state. It should be noted that today, with the progress of digitalisation, market participants rightly demand technological solutions that guarantee the identification of citizens and businesses in the electronic space, ensure the authenticity of their declarations and, in addition to identification, the transfer of authentic personal data. Therefore, it is also clear that there is a general interest in preventing crime in order to ensure that counterparties to financial services providers are identified in a credible manner. We know that it is in the common interest of all States to ensure the security of the financial sector. There are two other things I would like to talk about in front of you during this debate. One is that this draft allows customers with typically customer gates to log directly into the service provider's system, their data should be electronically checked in accordance with the standards of the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, thereby reducing the burden on both the public and the service providers involved in their personal appearance. In short, mandatory customer due diligence can, from now on, be done through electronic means. The second thing is that, in the last year, the Government Audit Office has carried out a revision of domestic legislation on security control of foreign investments. As a result of the comprehensive investigation, the discretion of the public and public bodies granted the right to decide on foreign investments in breach of Hungary's security interests has been reduced. Thus, making regulation more predictable can be regarded as a profit. At the end of my speech, I would just like to point out in a brief detour that, after the Constitutional Court has ordered Parliament to align the standards of the Violation Act with the requirements of the Fundamental Law for redress, the proposal submitted also meets this requirement. [[15.10]] Dear House, I have no intention of spreading the word any more. On the basis of what has been said in your speech and what I have said, it can be stated that the proposal presented provides for significant facilitations in the administration of the administrative matters of citizens. It should also be underlined that cooperation between public administrations can also be more effective with the adoption of the draft. The Fidesz Group supports the proposal tabled, and I ask all my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-92	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are constantly meeting here in Parliament over the last decade, and even before that, with legislative proposals that follow scientific progress, the electronic development that is taking steps in today's world. I have already drawn a parallel in my previous speech on a similar subject, when I said that this development can actually be divided into three stages. As long as Gutenberg invented printing, it was the first period until monks copied the information, books, diplomas, and all of this took place with extreme slowness. Then, when the printing press was invented, then the books appeared, the printing appeared, the press appeared, and a lot of things appeared. Well, it was a huge revolution at the end of the Middle Ages, and now we're going through a similar revolution when we move to the third stage, and we're already in it, when printing books and printing newspapers is almost outdated today, but I think that, unfortunately, in a very short period of time, it will become obsolete, and it will all be taken over by electronic media. We will read from here, we will see from here, and as we see in this bill, among other things, we will do so. There are obviously both positive and negative sides to this, and I will address them in the following. The bill before us also sets a number of positive examples, bringing a number of positive innovations. I.D.'s like that. If the legislation of the European Union so requires and harmonisation requires that it be similar throughout the entire territory of the European Union, obviously travelling between us, it is mandatory to enter and travel to the European Union, so there is nothing to argue about. This I.D. is obviously required, even if many people are reluctant to take fingerprints from a person, because this will be necessary in the new type of I.D. This is obviously something that many people will think about, since most people have only heard about fingerprinting in this context, and they see in crime stories when fingerprints are being taken. Obviously, this can give people a little bit of a bad feeling. But it's a rule that needs to be followed. The identity card for an indefinite period will be changed in the same way. Perhaps this was a Hungarian specialty and has always worked that way. Well, it's gonna run out of time, and a new system is gonna be regulated with this law. It is certainly positive and welcome that, for example, in the case of car liability insurance, we do not have to carry the small certificate to whom the insurance is sent monthly, to whom it is sent quarterly, to whom it is sent annually. A number of times, one forgets it at home, eats that little piece of note, doesn't have it, and it's very unpleasant when they ask it to be checked by road and can't prove it. And it was not in one case that tens of thousands or even tens of thousands of forints were fined for this lack. So the Hungarian society will be rid of something that I think everyone will be happy about. I think that the introduction of administrative terminals is also progressing at some level. This means the establishment of electronic contact points. Although I feel that if we keep moving forward with the introduction of similar innovations, we can see that some social alienation and loneliness, the fragmentation of society and its division into certain elements are in any way accelerating. While it is also important to see that administration can speed up to an incredible degree, it is only if it works in a professional and well-functioning way. Obviously, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office will also have an easier task if they do not have to go through the country with questioners, but will find and reach citizens electronically. I often think that this may be important for a more precise answer, because when a question-proofer knocks on the door or calls someone on the phone, you don't have the time to collect the documents, documents, documents that they want to know about. But if you receive the letter electronically, you have time and you can collect them and answer them. I don't know what level it's working on right now, but for example, I was approached by the KSH just the other day when they were doing groundwork for everyone. The personal questioner knocks on every door and asks if the person has land, uses the soil, how much land he owns, and which is the largest. Numerous questions you can't answer all of a sudden, but to do so you have to collect your documents. Not to mention the epidemic situation when we say that less human contact is needed. Even when a questioner knocks on 20-30 families a day, and if he is in danger himself, or he himself will be able to carry the plague from one place to another where there has been no disease, and in the other place there has been a disease. So, speaking of Covid, this is definitely a step forward. Electric connections between different public authorities, public bodies, higher electronic communication for citizens and businesses are also a positive task. And it is true that this is a public task, and this can also be a step forward. Screening for foreign investments is a legislative harmonisation amendment which is also necessary. But all these innovations are also a problem; on the one hand, that the technical possibilities are adequate, they can be used properly by the appropriate bodies. Obviously, when this is introduced, its first months, days, and years will decide whether it is a professionally mature system and whether the competence and laymanship of citizens may not be an obstacle. The fact that the mass of data appears in the State or in those operating these systems may also be an obstacle. Data on which today, in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, are published In the century, we see that the state knows virtually everything, knows everything about people. There's nothing wrong with that until there's an abuse problem. Unfortunately, there is always the possibility of this kind of mass data processing. Is it legal to process data or illegal? In vain, we will determine by law that data must be treated legally, because we have seen it when it doesn't happen, and, indeed, the legality of the data may be called into question for citizens. And one also wonders what kind of society we build at a time when everyone will only be in contact with the state, the local government, the authorities, and in many cases with friends, relatives and acquaintances from the end of their computer. I'm not saying that we should stop building, we shouldn't further develop, because obviously this is not the way, but somewhere we should find a harmonious link between the two, so that social disposal doesn't escalate any longer. I would also like to give an example of the opportunities and problems that may arise from this excessive processing. For example, it was not long ago that an old homicide case in the United States was discovered, where the unsub was found to be murdered 35 years ago by the development of science. They had the perp's hair, and they were able to get a DNA sample of it today, so they found in the system who that hair was attached to. [[15.20]] The amazing thing is how they found him. Not in a way, normally, that a DNA sample was taken from an unsub, and that's how it turned out that he also committed this murder, but in a commercial company, a certain member of his family ordered a service in which he could lead his family tree back to some place, and that's how the data could, in any case, be found a connection between the cases. What I'm saying is that when they use this method for law enforcement, we're going to catch those criminals even more, in a larger number, there's still room for that. But then, when these data are used completely differently by the policy, then there is a very big problem, and here you have to find the right balance that this huge set of data that will be included will be properly and well used. Then: earlier, when this ASP system was introduced in the municipalities, there were numerous problems. I also bring this up because this was also a stage in electronics development in Hungary. We have heard from the Ministry that the ASP system works incredibly well on the basis of the experiments in Hungary, that accounting has become simpler than the municipalities, that it has become faster, that deadlines cannot be missed here at the time, we have heard these positives from the Minister of Interior. At the time when I called the municipalities that it was true, and this is how the ASP system works, this was in the experimental phase, practically comparing the operation of the ASP to a disaster movie. They said that accounting had become much more complicated, that it had become much slower, that it had become much more difficult, and that deadlines could not be respected, and that the local government workers, the government workers, often had to stay there until midnight to record the data in these systems, which had previously worked in a way that was simple and easy. But in the same way the system is examining, we can even talk about the courts, where in some respects electronic administration is facilitated and, in some respects, difficulty. The judges often complain that things simply work much slower and more difficult in the electronic system, very often the system doesn't work, there are a lot of problems with the system. So obviously, these children's diseases, I think, will be undressed in a relatively short time, in five to ten years, and they will be fully operational. But to say the right thing about this, for example, I think that the customer-gate system in Hungary has passed an extremely good test, and in this regard, in particular, positive ones can be said. I think that the person who has come to know the client-gate system and uses it has made life easier for citizens in many ways. But for example, such a positive feature is the possibility of electronic sja-receiving, because many people have spent hours, often days, preparing their personal income tax returns. Today, he's just going through the e-mail he received, sending it to me. Obviously, these are innovations that make life a lot easier for you, but many times, when everything is on the electronic scene, it is at the expense of social relations and promotes disposal. So in any case, I think that the perception of these innovations is twofold, it serves both modernity, speed and simplicity, but sometimes it makes our lives more complicated, sometimes it makes it more difficult and also promotes social disposal. So it's definitely double-reviewed, but the future can't be stopped. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-20-94	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have explained in detail what was contained in the proposal, and it is very important that state registration systems, IT systems, electronic registers are reviewed and renewed from time to time, so that the state can progress with age, if that is the case. I think it is very important that the 21st edition of By means of digitalisation in the century, let us make life easier for citizens, make it easier to manage, register opportunities and the resulting public tasks, whether those are the tasks of the Statistical Office or the tasks of the Registry authorities. It is very important that we can conclude on the current bill, and I will not go into its details because it has already been done by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, but we can conclude that the renewal of these records will not only result in the acceleration of the background processes, but will also bring about tangible changes for citizens, as they are intended to facilitate the lives of citizens. Therefore, the KDNP fraction will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-20-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The bill aims at electronicising administrative procedures in dozens of areas, the most important of which are the IT system for personal data and address records, the IT systems for road transport and associated registers, the IT systems for document registers enabling identification. According to the author of the proposal, this will result in an acceleration of background processes and will also bring about changes that are felt by citizens. In this, we will not argue that everything that aims to make public access to all kinds of public services easier is to be supported, and we opposition politicians do not see it any different. Fingerprints will be a mandatory element: in the case of the procedure for issuing an ID card launched on or after 2 August 2021, only an ID card that contains fingerprints will be issued. Only children under six years of age and persons physically incapable of giving fingerprints are exempted from this. Secondly, there is a significant change in the fact that, by renewing the registration of compulsory car liability insurance, the data links between the bond register and the vehicle register will also be reviewed. The third is that electronic administration and the use of IT tools will be facilitated by the Ministry of Interior's plans for administration terminals or kiosks. The purpose of the creation of the kiosk is to enable the person who has appeared in the document offices to be able to deal with it, as opposed to the administrator, with the help of the kiosk. It forms a transition between electronic administration and personal administration in terms of the functioning of kiosk, creating a hybrid solution. Here, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use criticism, and we have seen in recent times that the shortage of labour in the offices of documents has caused serious damage to daily care. Let me give you one example: in the Western Railway Station area, one of the wings of the building has been very beautifully renovated in recent years. I couldn't tell you exactly right now, but if I remember correctly, we spent over 300 million forints renovating this building. I go there every day, and you can really say it's beautiful. It became an office of documentation in these parts of the Western Railway Station, which was opened only a few years ago, and was immediately closed because of the labour shortage. I can't say exactly, I'm sure the Secretary of State knows better than to say that it was because of the referrals that the employees were transferred to other document offices, or couldn't buy a sufficient number of professionals at the time of opening. This document office has been closed for long, long months. [[Károly Kontra: Open!]] And then, thank God, it's been opened recently, and now it's on a daily basis. But we could even tell horror stories about the stories that citizens can tell in document offices and personal affairs, whether at a death certificate or at a family replacement transfer, we could bring up a lot, a lot of administration. We hope that the development of this system will ease and alleviate these daily problems. However, there is a very interesting part of this amendment of the law, the provisions relating to law enforcement and national security. [[15.30]] Here the 27th amendment is made. Paragraph 67. § 68-69, 70, and I'm specifically 105-111. I would like to refer to the amendment of Section 3. LVII of 2018 on the control of foreign investments in breach of Hungary's security interests The proposal amends the law as follows. It clarifies the provisions concerning the definition of activities covered by the law. That's 105. §. In the event of non-compliance with the notification requirement, the law currently provides 6 months for the initiation of the verification procedure from the date on which it becomes aware of ownership, registration in a company register and reporting of activities. This six-month deadline is set out in the proposal for a period of 18 months. However, the objective time limit remains unchanged, i.e. the procedure can be opened within a maximum of 5 years. It will not be sufficient for the decision to prohibit the fact that the circumstances on which it is based are reasonable, but must be established. At present, the law only sets the maximum fine that can be imposed. The proposal also sets the minimum fine: HUF 100 thousand for a natural person, HUF 1 million for a legal person. The proposal incorporates into the law the rules necessary for the implementation of EU Regulation 2019/452 establishing a screening framework for foreign direct investment in the Union. In the debate on the draft law on the control of foreign investments in Hungary's security interests, this was T/628. Mr Tamás Harangozó, head speaker of MSZP, expressed very serious concerns. None of these concerns are substantially addressed by this proposal. The Minister's right of discretion is limited by the proposal to the extent that the existence of the circumstance justifying the prohibition decision is not justified enough, but must be established. On the other hand, there is an increase in the scope of government mobility by not having to open proceedings within 6 months from the fact that the circumstances giving rise to the procedure are known in the event of a non-notification, but in 18 months. I wanted to say this because, let me say, I still have time to discuss this law in Parliament on 26 June 2018, and let me read some of this debate. Dr. Tamás Bellozó was the lead speaker of the MSZP. Both the title of this bill and its communication are to provide the Hungarian government with a means to act against third-country investors who may pose a risk to national security or economic security and would violate Hungarian strategic and economic interests, for example, in these industries. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here, my fellow Member is discussing the investment in Paks quite a long time, but I would like to continue what he said then. What lies on Parliament's table today gives a minister or ministers full discretion to decide what and who is a security risk and what is not. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If your imagination is not strong enough, please think of your residency bond business, where hundreds of billions of people went through offshore companies, which would have been the Hungarian state register. But if the risk of national security is not considered to be well-founded, please think how the bloody hell it could have come to Hungary, I will look at a personal meeting with the Prime Minister, with permission from the Minister of State of the Ministry of Interior, with the Arab entrepreneur, who was otherwise wanted by the FBI for terrorist financing at the time. So if you tell this Parliament or the Hungarian people that it is a guarantee that, for example, the Minister of the Interior or the Hungarian Government will grant permission to whom and to whom not, then let me also quietly draw their attention to the fact that a terrorist has just been captured in the European Union, who has acquired Hungarian citizenship with your courtesy and help. In particular, with your courtesy and your help, because you have been able to do so on the basis of the new regulations that you have accepted here in Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One more detail of this speech. In order to return to the starting atmosphere, if this were really about preventing foreign interests from appearing in the strategic sector in Hungary and even buying it, we would consider a bill where, say, national security services, for example, the energy office or the competition office, would base the Minister's decision on an objective professional opinion. But please, the Minister's decision on the security risk is a joke. This is a very, very bad joke. And I am sure that it will lead us to what I have just said, that they will not defend the interests of the Hungarian nation, but protect their own economic interests, if necessary, against the Hungarian nation. That's what laws like this are about 100 times out of 100. And if you really don't want to do this, then I really hope that there will be an amending proposal where some normative rule is written about how the Minister can make that decision. There is an appeal procedure in which the Minister's decision can be challenged in court, which the Minister does not even have to justify in accordance with the law. Well, the judge's gonna scratch his head on how to override a decision that doesn't even have a reason. Which doesn't have one objective criterion. Will the judge say that he thinks the Minister was wrong about something at that moment? So the bill doesn't even say that the minister has to give some justification for this. The court will make some decisions, in the worst case, instruct the minister to proceed with a new procedure. Cool. So you're going in again, you're thinking again, and you're telling me again that I think that's true or correct. It is a purely pretend activity, and I think it tells me everything about what is really the intention of this bill. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I have read this, and only in detail, because I told you just before the Secretary of State told me in his chair that they are trying to remedy the problems caused by this section of the law, but they did not solve the problems that my fellow Member said in his speech in 2018. We could support anything else in this bill, but I think, to put it mildly, we can only get to one residence. But I really hope that sooner or later the criticisms that I have said to Mr. Secretary of State will be handled. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-10-20-98	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have a package of laws here that amends 23 laws in total if I count them correctly. [[Károly Kontra: 24.]] Twenty-four. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And, in fact, he has two legs, let me split up the two different themes: one of them by crossing the records I call it such simple related modifications, and there is an electronic administration type foot of the story. I'll start with the latter. I have not yet met a living person who did not support new areas of electronic administration. I have never met a man like this, I may have, but I think it is widely supported, not only by political parties, but also outside the House, it is certainly a matter that almost everyone or everyone is supporting. Electronic administration makes our lives much simpler, much smoother. There are a thousand and one reasons to move in this direction. I like it, I don't like it, this country went in this direction before 2010. If I understand the proposal correctly, it is the government's intention to go in this direction. So I think the intention, the direction is common, and that's good. I think that the problem in this is that we may not be going enough in the direction that, if I have set this common direction, I do not see that there exists a national strategy, there is a project, a programme, anything that the government would call that, which would lead to all electronic administration processes in this country in the foreseeable future, and it covers the full spectrum of what citizens would like to do in their crafty and difficult affairs. [[15.40]] It wouldn't be hard to collect such a best practice from abroad, you can learn. Here, the Baltic States, such as Estonia, are mentioned as examples, but there must be examples of left and right. The point is, you can't see what this country is really going to, either. You can't tell what the target is. It doesn't seem to be a step in the right direction, a little step in the right direction, or even the direction is unclear. Let me say something modestly here that DK has a special digital program in Hungary, for example, and in... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] There is such a thing, and it is true that all matters can be handled electronically, except for marriage years ago. We said maybe not yet, but otherwise everything else could be digitized. So, in theory, I think we're pretty much in agreement. But what's the drill? On the one hand, the practice, and some of the previous ones, have mentioned such examples, terrifying examples, I believe, said Congresswoman, so that the practice is very difficult. Let me tell you a personal story, my time may be fine: I just left all my personal documents a few weeks ago, I had to remake it all. I have a specific example of this, which is quite smooth, and, for example, the application for a farm card, a tax card is not a smooth administration, and if it can be done through a customer's doorway, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State as a positive example, it is only part of the process in the field of electronic administration, because after a while we will move to pushing and writing and mailing the papers, in particular, this happened. So, it's difficult to find out where the digitalization has already entered the territory, let alone what it is that we have not yet entered. Another problem with its practical implementation is that it is not noticeable that we have the courage to make a big move. We are not talking about, not only that this proposal is not, there is absolutely no sign that the government is considering extending this electronic administration process to, for example, voting, i.e. electronic voting. Parliamentary or municipal elections are already carried out electronically in the world. It's not like that, we don't talk about it, there's no plan. People's votes could already be held electronically, and there is a wide range of ways and how to move forward. And I thought I would admit that this year, when we talk about epidemic waves and how people stay at home and stay away from all their fellow humans, this will bring forward these suggestions. I don't see you bringing it up. This package of proposals does not include such a large-scale plan in the amendment of 24 laws. But here's the third problem, which can be seen in practice in the context of electronics, and this is that online user culture in Hungary, let's say, is the way that people can handle matters electronically, let's say that it has developed unevenly. My perception is that society is split in two here. Let's just say that one half, although I'm not sure if this majority, or even half of the citizens, is able to take advantage of opportunities by the way, and, for example, to handle certain matters through the customer gate. But here we have to talk about the hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, for whom this thing is impossible. You are impossible because there is digital illiteracy in this country, and no government program is known to aim to fight this government after ten years of governance, for example; but we do not talk about access to the Internet, for example, because it would require how limited it is. Obviously not in this Chamber, obviously I am not talking about downtown Budapest, where we now sit and exist, but in many areas of the country it is not that simple. Wide masses in this society do not otherwise have access to the Internet or opportunities to deal with matters electronically; or if they have access, then, I say, the kind of digital illiteracy that prevents them from actually being able to handle them. Again, let me say that this is what DK is proposing: we are proposing free internet in this country, by the way. We believe that by 2022 it would be possible to cover the country 100% with broadband internet. And he talks about the system of kiosks, which I'm sure can be useful, but once again I have the doubt that hundreds of thousands of people in this country, perhaps millions, will not be able to use the possibility of dealing with kiosks, because, mister, they don't even know how to answer which questions and what to answer, which buttons to press, or how to use them at all. There will be problems in this area, and the big problem is that we see this, we know that there is research. It's like the government doesn't care at all, there's no program, there's no plan. We are creating some new forms of electronic administration, and we are very happy about that, but the proportion of people who use it is not increasing as much as it would be desirable, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to suggest here that the Secretary of State can answer that, by the way, he has assessed where they achieve greater efficiency with unit of money: if they are developing document offices that wish to make physical appearance, there has been an example here that somehow we can renovate the building, but we can't turn the workforce into it, or there are more benefits from it. [[Károly Kontra: There is labour!]] If online, i.e. electronic administration is developed. Obviously, I could think of some kind of lucky proportion of that and suggest it. So this is the problem with one part of the bill, the electronic administration. There is another part, with which there are many more problems, and this is the insertion of registers and the collection of new data in these state registers. I understand you're going to be storing a lot of new data about us now, and I've made some notes here. If I understand correctly, it will now be specified to the National Archives when, how and how many times, you will be able to save, or you will also be electronically guarding the data from the visitors of the inmates, but if I understand correctly, the online registration of the vehicles will also be expanded with new data. There may be advantages, there may be disadvantages. So, more and more data about us is being collected by the state, if you can put it that way. Where's the limit? I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State. Is there a rational limit to how long and what kind of data the state has on us? I do not see this debate being held, whether in connection with this law or otherwise; I do not see that there is any clear line in this. And that is a problem because neither this bill nor any new data collection and data concentration in general during the last ten years' governance, which is taking place in the field of the state, do not provide guarantees that these data will be used only for the benefit and benefit of citizens. [[Continue in 157/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 20 October 2020 157/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Here too, Congressman, you have indicated that if, for example, it were a law enforcement task and that certain data were used, I believe that we would all support and exult. But there's no guarantee, there's no guarantee why it would be used only for that. When can the situation arise, even by submitting another salad law, that suddenly the data collected until then will be found to be used for something else altogether? You don't see that guarantee, Mr. Secretary. And then, at the last point, it must be said that all this legislation and all these proposals are taking place in a political climate, in a political situation where, moreover, broad masses in this country do not believe the state is so much that it may not use the data collected against citizens; it may not use it to register political sympathy or dislike, or perhaps to reward or retortion. We live in a country where there are simply rumors about data in people; you must have met with this, that perhaps state databases, so to speak, are partying, and perhaps Fidesz is using certain public databases for party purposes. There is such an accusation, honourable Member, I say this to Congressman Nacsa, there is such an accusation. Or, for example, last week, I asked the President of the Data Protection Authority why he didn't report the lawsuit he lost in court, which a citizen won against Fidesz because Fidesz sent him newsletters completely illegally. [[15.50]] These are just the tips of the iceberg, I add, and they are touchingly linked to this bill. The essence of what I would like to say here, in conclusion, is that there are no guarantees that these data collections, further data concentration, which is included in this proposal, are certainly in the interest of the citizens, and it is not apparent that this is what the proposer thought about in every measure, and although there are no doubt there are points to be supported and good points in it, that I should point out that there is no tax exemption in the case of reporting services in the event of death, that I should say such a thing, or that, of course, we supported it, that next year, the chips of the IDs now contain the fingerprints, but overall, there are very serious risk problems. And if we talked about how and how this country should protect its personal data against a foreign attack or against a foreign influence, and indeed, we should talk about it, then when we talk about what might prevent the political data collection used by the government for the wrong purposes, whether in these proposals or in this country in general. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-20-100	Thank you, Congressman. I now address László Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-10-20-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It was very, very instructive, I think, to all of us, to listen to the speeches so far either from pro-government or from opposition representatives. I think that we can say, at the end of the first round of the debate, that this is a little unspeakable. Csaba Gyüre said that the future cannot be stopped, and this is the way, and we can also confirm that all political parties are thinking in this regard that the road is indeed digitalisation and the broadest possible penetration of electronic services, and this is a welcome goal, but it is still very much in its infancy. I can also say that I have basically agreed with all the Members who have spoken before me in this regard. Some have been promoting a little party political programmes, competences, some have presented the law, some have expressed their very legitimate concerns, others have had ideas on how to go forward and this debate has reached the point of social problems. I think, and all I can say is that this is really the future, this is the way, this is the way to go, this is the way to go, I am also a bit lacking in the government's inconclusiveness. I feel a little bit as if it can be seen from outside the government as if the Ministry of Interior had a relatively high affinity for digitalization in order to achieve these goals, but I do not perceive a strategy at the general government level. And what we can say, obviously, in the ten-year perspective, is that these are not necessarily the political areas in which the government has invested most of the energy, which can certainly be said. Overall, the reduction of bureaucracy and the simplification of administration are certainly to be welcomed. Unfortunately, we are in such a sad situation, in such an epidemiological situation, when we can say that this is, in itself, a compulsion, and we must also be prepared to make it accessible in such situations, so that it can be made easier to deal with, but at the same time it has very, very serious conditions for these to work. On the one hand, and this has already been referred to by my fellow Members, Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, in particular, that there are very, very many conditions for these measures to work, these changes. In terms of digital divide, digital illiteracy, very serious tasks, very serious social policy tasks for the government, and, indeed, in many places, basic infrastructure conditions must also be ensured. I believe that all Members of Parliament have personally experienced, for example, the difficulties they present, for example, to the municipalities, especially the municipalities with a smaller budget, in giving basic assistance to families who are not able to prepare for or participate in digital education, there are not enough different means of communication that would make this necessary. It is therefore necessary to keep pace with digitalisation in the construction of infrastructure. Here I would just like to refer to an area that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was pressuring, citing a previous speech. I think that yes, so the issue of data protection and cyber security is again something that we have barely talked about here, and we do not really see a concept about that. I can confirm for myself that indeed, so political relations, public relations, the atmosphere are not very favourable to positive social welcome. I can also confirm that, whether international scandals or misuse of data have been seen from many places at international level, that many times indeed strengthen the concerns expressed by my fellow Members, that, indeed, a state has not used such data and that it has not been used by a state in accordance with the original or the stated objectives. These guarantees must be built in. Overall, the direction of the bill and, obviously, as we go forward, if we can argue the speed of this political process or policy work, is basically good. We also consider the bill to be fundamentally eligible, but I also very much agree with the concerns about data protection concerns that have been raised. I also encourage us, opposition representatives, to encourage the MSZP faction, that the missing detailed rules that they still rightly miss from the bill are being put forward in the form of amendments. What I have seen, however, is that we often disagree, but the Ministry of the Interior has reception readiness for amendments. I would even consider it a realistic option that the Ministry of the Interior would organise some sort of policy consultation, organise many of these, and then we will obviously see that if these concerns, say in the form of good amendments, come to the preparation of the bill, then perhaps we can get to the point where the final text of this bill that has already been put to the vote will be a little more reassuring for all of us, and then perhaps we will be able to accept it with a broad consensus. We are also preparing such positive amendments that provide guarantees. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-102	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now come to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent congressman to apply may speak, so I'll give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-10-20-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13262. This House is discussing a bill, and I would certainly not like to repeat the thoughts that my fellow opposition Members have already said. I myself welcome the proposal to develop electronic registers, which includes simplified procedures which impose on citizens every day as little as possible administrative tasks. It is clear from the proposal that the new decisions in the European Union have a strong impact on the road transport register on the one hand and, more importantly, on the system of registering European citizens. So most of these proposals were not brought before the House on the basis of the request of the Hungarian Government, but simply because the European Union has set out a new set of requirements. As of August 2021, the European Union has introduced a new entry into force provision for EU citizens' identity cards according to which the content and format of the document issued by the Member States are mandatory in the territory of the European Union and only an identity card which contains fingerprints may be issued in the procedure for issuing an identity card launched after 2 August 2021. Many of our elderly countrymen will not be pleased that the unscheduled identity card will disappear. To be honest, I also do not understand why, for example, our fellow citizens over 80 and the citizens of the European Union should not have permanent identity, and they certainly had their reasons. On 3 August 2026 the identity card issued before 1 January 2000 will expire, and after 3 August 2031 the identity card issued after 1 January 2016 will expire, where the citizen does not reach the age of 70 by 2 August 2021. This is a rather serious change, and for quite a long time, Hungarian society has been used to a different view of IDs, well, we try to adapt to it. My fellow Members have not told me about it, so it is just an interesting treat to see that Annex XVII is a good idea. The law that is being amended is the Act on Parliament, and it is extremely reassuring for us that, therefore, when we return to the Creator, we do not even have to report to anyone that we have passed away and we need to be remembered, but the Parliament will receive this from the state register, and not by chance will learn from Facebook entries that a Member may have passed away, and it may be appropriate to remember him, and we can rest assured that someday when we return to the Creator, they will tell us about us in the House. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski laughs.]] [[16.00]] That was the little snack that made me smile in my speech. But more importantly, this is the security check for certain foreign investments. I believe that almost all my fellow Members were here in the Chamber when we discussed this proposal in 2018. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, my fellow Member, read from the speech by Tamás Harangozó, and I will not read from mine, but to be honest, I shall have the lottery number as it was in this legislative proposal. I said you'd like to come back to the House with this, because there were a lot of detailed rules that were supposed to be in the law that weren't in it. We had already said that there were very few deadlines for administration; we had already said that there was not such a standard for negative determination as to how, if these were brought to court, the court would overrule ministerial decisions without justification. So this proposal has come to us, which is basically about extending the administrative deadline on the one hand, and we knew it was impossible in a globalised world of this kind, the real status, interests, relationships of foreign investors, the degree of danger or threat was impossible, so it really was no wonder that the proposal raised it to 180 days. I think, by the way, that in a lot of cases, even that won't be enough, but I shouldn't be right. The other is that the legislator has too much discretion as to the extent to which a fine is required. I didn't understand why it was only a maximum, why it wasn't a minimum, because the maximum has zero, so I welcome the fact that this legislation eliminates it. I must say, and I do not wish to offend the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, but somehow I feel that there is something else behind this proposal, but that is not being told to us. One thing is certain: the original LVII of 2018. Law wasn't mature enough at the time, it wasn't well enough to apply, now it was brought back by the Ministry of the Interior in connection with these two issues. We hope that this has now improved the applicability of this legislation, but I still believe that there must be such a level of Hungarian secret services, the Hungarian internal affairs agencies, that if someone really wants to participate in these strategic sectors in Hungary in a hurtful way or in some way offensive to our interests, they would otherwise be able to exclude it without this law. I welcome the amendments made to the proposal to simplify different procedures, which is always very pleasing to citizens, and we are truly accompanied by an incredibly large amount of administration, the better, the less forced we are. I must say that, since this package of proposals does not concern any regulation that would be detrimental to our citizens, I will, of course, vote for it. For this reason, there will be no faction that calls for me to return my mandate. So I can only say with great respect that this proposal has also proved that sometimes it is okay to accept the opposition's proposals in terms of legislation, that it is not good enough, that it is not mature enough, that it is not thoughtful enough, that it is not detailed enough, and that we should think about it once more, and that we should vote a week later, just better. It has also been proven that a year and a half later, almost two years later, we have to revisit this proposal here, together with the fact that, of course, it is time to comply with EU standards, and that legislation must be made now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2020-10-20-104	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. So I give the floor to a Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Speaker, you have the floor.
u2020-10-20-105	-akujem za slovo pán predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností Ma.arska, vytvorenom na zasadnutí 19. októbra k návrhu zákona číslo T/13262. o modifikácii niektorých zákonov v súvislosti s szuradnými registrami a elektronickou správou. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to inform you of the T/13262. on the position of the Committee at its meeting on 19 October on the proposal to amend certain laws in relation to registers and electronic administration. The proposal for an amendment under discussion falls within the scope of the already usual complex amendments, proposing a larger or smaller correction of 24 laws. Most of these are changes that do not directly affect nationality rights in their content, but, given the ethnic sensitivity of personal data records, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has reviewed the amendments. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. According to law, citizens belonging to nationalities in Hungary have the right to have their family and first names in the registers in accordance with the rules of their ethnic language or in their ethnic language and in Hungarian. According to our understanding, and in the previous practice, at least in part, this has been achieved, this provision has also enabled family and first name to be displayed in two languages in the public documents based on birth certificates. Among these, the most important is the ID card, where it was possible to display both versions of the name previously. However, according to nationalities, this is only a partial realization of the intention set out in the national law. It did not appear, according to the argument of the competent wallet, the leaders of the Ministry of Interior argued that due to lack of place, the family and first name in nationality language could not appear in other documents, which were regularly used and suitable for identification at international level, such as the address card, the driver's license or the passport. The provision of this option has been initiated in several cases, but so far they have not been transferred. As has been said several times, the proposed amendment package we are discussing contains amendments to 24 different pieces of legislation. The reasons for the proposal include EU obligations, facilitations, simplifications and the development of registers and services that are directly felt by citizens. A significant part of these concern the operation of electronic registers which are already inevitable in today's world, as well as the possibilities and processes of electronic administration. The existence of electronic registers and the visible data displayed on the personal documents, and the distribution of them directly and unobserved, but electronically registered data, provide a wider opportunity, where appropriate, to issue personal documents in full in nationality language to the civil status offices or the offices of documents to the citizens who so require. In our opinion, with the current package of amendments, we can draw closer to the ideal state in which Hungarian citizens of nationality may have personal documents issued in their mother tongue, in accordance with the rules of their mother tongue, in respect of all documents proving their identity. At present, the application for the representation of the family and first name in ethnic and Hungarian languages is included only in the current implementing regulation in relation to the identity card. Although the package of laws before us does not specifically and directly affect the data content of individual identification documents, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities decided at its meeting yesterday that it is important to raise the need for a wider enforcement of nationality names rights in the general debate on the package of laws, even knowing that our proposal will not be included here and now in the package of amendments tabled. The 24 legislative acts to be amended and their content affect nationality rights in two cases. One of these, the second amending legislation is the LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. Law, the opening stages of which now do not include provisions on nationality rights directly. The other legislation, which concerns us, ethnic advocates, in the list to be changed, is Act No 17, XXXVI of 2012 and Parliament. The amendments proposed by these two laws are in agreement with our committee, but it lacks the representation of changes in the use of nationality names, the representation of family and first names in the language of nationality. [[16.10]] For this reason, I would add that our committee is planning to draft a separate amendment proposal for the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and address during the cycle. Law. As regards the entire package of amendments that has now been tabled, we note, on the basis of the justification and the detailed justification, that the problem of the use of nationality names and the presentation of them raised in my speech has not been addressed in the current package of amendments, and our committee will also propose the adoption of the legislative package. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-20-106	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I now give the floor to Ádám Héyj, representative of Fidesz, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say very briefly that our fellow Members, Mrs Bangóné, Mr Sebian-Petrovski, have also gone out, and I see Mr Keresztes Group leader, didn't he, for many of them, say that the government doesn't deal with digital competences, that we don't deal with the development of public administration. Since I had the pleasure of overseeing the administrative and public service development operational programme as government commissioner between 2016 and 2018, let me briefly say that in the framework of the KÖFOP programme, the Hungarian State spent nearly HUF 340 billion on developing administrative information, among other things, in order to ensure that as many cases as possible can be dealt with. And although, of course, I agree with my fellow Members, Mr Gyüre also said that the world is constantly changing, so every year we want more and more things, and it would be good if we could do it digitally, today, I think we have taken important steps in the past period, and perhaps it is equally important that we have spent more than 60 billion forints on public service development over the past period. This work, of course, cannot be said to have been completed, but it is a work that must be continued. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-108	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary Charles Kontra, I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions, which have been made in today's debate on the bill. I would like to thank Mr Dávid Héyj, who, on behalf of Fidesz, has given his support, and in his two-minute speech, has added very important information to his statement, and he has also contributed to giving our fellow Members and Parliament a real picture of this very important issue. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members. I would like to continue the line: Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik, thank you for your contribution. The innovation problems, their entry into force are adapted to the IT developments, the data management proposal has been agreed with the Data Protection Authority, the fingerprints are not registered, only on the documents. That's what I'd like to say, because that's fair, and that's how it's true. The crime was found not in a state register system, but in a business you mentioned. The ASP system, right, was used to help local government farming. We can tell you that basically this ASP system is working, working well. Of course, it needs to be constantly developed, because everything needs to be constantly developed, and in all cases measures must be taken to meet the challenges of the age. It's today's law, our law doesn't affect the ASP, I'm just telling you what our position is on this. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, on behalf of KDNP, thank you very much for your support for this proposal and for your support. I would also like to thank Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for her contribution. As for the operation of the document office at West Station, it's only fair that it works. Our goal is to serve people. As regards the introduction of a kiosk system or the operation of kiosks, the burden of document administration will also be reduced by the adoption of the proposal. So you suggested that there were enough people. Yes, there are enough people, but it is important to reduce these burdens. Audit procedure in the previous debate, in which he read in detail the comments made earlier by another MSZP fellow Member in the previous debate on the bill. I would like to say that the current proposal narrows the instruments. So far, the risk has had to be assumed, and now it has to be established. I'll tell you for the record, so you can tell us that that's what we've been responding to. So there is a significant difference: the risk had to be predicted earlier, and now it has to be established. There's a big difference. That's what I'd draw attention to. The purpose of this law is completely different from that which he spoke of, and I trust that they will reconsider and be able to vote for the law. László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of the Democratic Coalition: how long will the concentration of data last? That's the question the congressman asked. I think that we are not talking about data concentration, but that these legislative proposals, these amendments, are in line with the interests of the Hungarian people, comply with the requirement to be simpler, faster to issue documents, a measure relating to documents. State databases are being sided and asked what the guarantee was. I would like to say that the Government of Hungary is complying with the laws, there is no intention to promote the data so to speak. Hungary is a democratic rule of law, and we have the institutions, including the Data Protection Authority, which are responsible for complying with these laws, and they help us to comply with them. So there is no such intention, and the Government of Hungary complies with the laws, does not violate them, and we work to serve the interests of the Hungarian people. I really find that you have not been able to find a significant error in our proposal, in the bill currently under discussion, and that you have been talking about completely different subjects. Neither the property card, nor the tax information, nor the Internet, are the powers of BM, all of which should be accounted for outside of us. Of course, our aim is to be able to offer citizens a better solution in all respects. He also suggested a difficult operation. Everything can be tested and continuously developed in practice. That's what's happening now, so that's what I'd like to say. Data collection is in compliance with data protection laws, and the Data Protection Authority is also a guarantee that only the data specified in the legislation can be recorded, and I would like to underline that, once again, the government has no illegal intention. Our aim is to solve these rules for the benefit of Hungarian citizens and to fulfil EU obligations. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, thank you for your contribution. I am pleased that you can basically support it and I am pleased that you have given a favourable view of BM's practice, in such a way that we really want to be able to establish the best regulation here in Parliament. I urge the Member, Mr Group leader, to submit an amendment, the Ministry of the Interior has always been open to a substantive discussion about it, and if it is in line with the concept of the law, the objectives of the law, then I think that there is a realistic chance that we will discuss this in substance. [[16.20]] I would also like to say here that there is no such thing as unconventionalism that you have raised in the proposal. Here is a concrete package of proposals during the submission of the bill, which has been formulated with clear objectives and have been presented to this House. Data protection rules comply with international standards. And once again, I urge you to submit a proposal, because that is the way it is because it has been said that this has not been discussed. It is precisely in Parliament's place to discuss a bill, a proposal, and the Parliament accepts the best solution. We are also here with this proposal to make this happen in this case. I thank my colleague, Mr Varga-Damm, Andrea, for his contribution. As far as foreign investors are concerned, and he said that there is something else behind this proposal. There is nothing behind the proposal but what is in the text described, which is also included in the explanatory memorandum. We believe and have tabled the proposal because it is in our view that it improves the regulation in force. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that today's debate will also contribute to achieving a regulation on this very important issue, on the amendment of laws relating to registers and electronic administration that meets the interests of Hungary, Hungarian citizens, and that we can also fulfil our obligations in the EU. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft legislation on family farms until closure. Government referral T/13261. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the fundamental objectives of the agricultural policy is to create a regulatory environment that contributes to reducing the administrative burden on farmers, provides more favourable tax conditions, facilitates generational change by simplifying organisational forms, while at the same time turning demographic processes in rural areas in a positive direction. In our country, as in the entire European Union, it has become important to change the agricultural generation, to create opportunities for economic transfer, because over the last few years, the middle generation giving the backbone of farmers has reached the point of transferring the economy to their successors. Public intervention is important, as it is only possible to ensure the functioning of the agri-food economy with continuous generation renewal. Addressing the legal environment of farmers and family farmers can be a significant step towards solving the problems of agricultural generation change. Currently, the majority of farmers in the Hungarian agricultural sector are farmers of small and medium-sized enterprises and family farmers. In terms of the number of data subjects, 290 251 people have a current primary producer certificate, while 23 555 have around 83 272 people working on family farms. Based on the data, the age composition of both individual farmers and economic operators is unfavourable: more than half of individual farmers are over 55 years of age, while the proportion of persons under 35 years of age is below 10 percent, which shows a continuing deterioration in age composition in relation to multi-annual trends. We must create favourable conditions for those living in agriculture. The draft law was prepared with the active and support of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Cooperatives, for which we also express our thanks. Nearly a quarter of a century of outdated regulatory environments affecting farmers and family farms are set out in Annex XXI to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We want to develop together into modern regulation, which meets the requirements of the century. The scheme covers farmers, newly introduced farmers' family farms and family agricultural companies. The existence of a family relationship is an essential element of Hungarian society and agriculture, because we have a common value, beyond any political debate, to help family and family farming. By family farming, we mean the agricultural and forestry activities that family members carry out together, using their resources together and by means of the results of their work, in order for them to thrive together. In the case of farmers, life-like, simpler administrative and tax rules will enter into force from 2021 onwards. The scope of activity will be extended to include additional activities related to agricultural and forestry activities, such as rural tourism or the provision of agricultural services, so that no more forms of business are required for life-like farming. In order to clarify the overlapping, complementary legal forms, it is specified that the farmer may only act as an original farmer or as a member of the family holding of an ancient farmer in respect of his activities. In addition, it cannot be self-employed in terms of its prima facie activity. An exception is proposed: if the income of the additional activity exceeds a quarter of the income of the pre-production activity, because in this case, the additional activity is already excluded from the scope of its activities as an Ancient producer. Ancient farmers who are in a relationship with each other, forming a joint chain of relatives, may also carry out their activities in the form of a family holding of ancestors. This community also triggers common prima facie activities and family farms among the present forms. Its characteristic is that it does not qualify as an independent legal entity because the members are an agricultural ancestors. A farmer who is considered to be at least two relatives may set up a farm in order to carry out his activities in person and jointly. Due to the obligation of personal participation, a farmer may at the same time be a member of the family farm of an ancient farmer. The family holding of the ancestors does not have any independent wealth separate from the members' assets. The Community production nature of the family holding of the original producers is the basis for the joint use of the agricultural production assets transferred by the members. As a general rule, the members share the profits and losses of the family farm of the original producers equally, but of course they may differ from this in the founding contract. The family agricultural company is a special rating acquired by the company, cooperative or forest holding company by registration. An economic company, cooperative or forest holding company with at least two members may be registered, whose members are in a chain of relatives and carry out only agricultural, forestry and ancillary activities. A person shall not be a member of more than one family agricultural company. The Chamber of Agriculture shall carry out official tasks relating to the registration of farmers, the family holding of farmers and family agricultural companies. Another key element of the package of proposals before you is the amendment of the relevant legislation that has become necessary as a result of the creation of a new law on family farms. [[16.30]] The main objective of the amendment of tax legislation is to create a tax environment adapted to the forms of operation set out in the new Act. The current tax system contains a number of special tax rules for primary producers, primary producers, and members of the family holding which carries out their activities jointly. As a result of the wide variety of income-setting methods and the various forms of agricultural activity, the tax system has now become extremely complex and complex. I would like to mention some of the main elements of the proposal to amend Ancient Taxation. The amount of aid received by the farmer in connection with his activity shall not be taken into account as revenue, neither in setting taxable income nor in the tax threshold. The smallest producers with minimum annual income still do not have to establish income from their income from the pre-production activity and do not have to submit a personal income tax return. According to the proposal, this tax exemption threshold increases from the current revenue amount of HUF 600 000 to the income equivalent to half the annual minimum wage, which corresponds to HUF 966,000, based on the minimum wage for 2020. The possibility of setting a flat-rate income would remain, also known as flat-rate taxation, but the upper limit for the option of flat-rate taxation will be increased from the current revenue threshold of HUF 8 million to the revenue threshold of 10 times the annual minimum wage, which corresponds to HUF 19 million, calculated as the minimum wage of 2020. The flat-rate income would be equal to 10 per cent of the income instead of the previous 6 and 15 per cent. This simplification will lead to a negative declaration and the possibility of applying the 40% small producer cost reduction. At the same time, the income of the flat-rate taxpayer becomes tax-free up to five times the annual minimum wage, which is equivalent to HUF 9 million 660 thousand, calculated on the minimum wage for 2020. In terms of the flat-rate income ratio of 10 per cent, this means that the income corresponding to half the annual minimum wage, calculated at the minimum wage of 2020, will become tax-free. Given that producers making a negative declaration and enforcing a 40% small producer's cost ratio are subject to a zero-forint personal income tax, this amendment proposal has no impact on the budget, but at the same time results in significant simplification for both the taxable person and the public administration. In addition to flat-rate taxation, taxable income may continue to be determined by itemised cost accounting, but its application is compulsory in the case of revenue exceeding the ceiling for the option of flat-rate taxation. The modified rules for farmers can also be applied by the members of the family holding of farmers, i.e. farmers. The revenue limit for the option of flat-rate taxation is multiplied by ten times the number of members and the annual minimum wage, up to a maximum of 40 times the annual minimum wage, which corresponds to some HUF 77 million, calculated on the minimum wage for 2020. Based on the climate protection action plan, the beekeepers' special support was justified, so we also want to support them by exempting the income of the farmer from the production of specified bee products, regardless of the method of calculating income, up to half the annual minimum wage, corresponding to the income of HUF 966,000, based on the minimum wage for 2020. As a result, the tax exemption on income from the sale of bee-keeping products and the tax exemption on the income of the flat-rate taxer can be applied together, the income of the pre-farmer engaged in the activities of bee-keeping and the flat-rate taxer up to the income not exceeding the minimum annual wage is exempt from tax up to HUF 1 million 932 thousand. This combined tax exemption limit, expressed as a revenue limit, represents an income amount not exceeding 10 times the annual minimum wage, amounting to a minimum wage of 19 million HUF 320 thousand for the bee-keeping sector, calculated at the 2020 minimum wage. For all social enterprises, the amount of personal income tax that a member of a social enterprise receives for the purpose of the grant of land use rights, the transfer of agricultural aid for the repayment of a mortgage on land purchase or the purchase of land is exempted. The tax exemption of the amount received for mortgage repayment is conditional on the land being used by the social enterprise during the repayment period, and then the most important part of this issue is not to pay a land lease fee to its member. The exemption of the amount obtained for the purchase of land is conditional on the transfer of the land thus purchased to the social enterprise free of charge for at least 15 years. The tax-free amounts granted by social enterprises in the tax year may not exceed HUF 50 million in total in the case of a grant to several members. Changes to social security contributions and social contribution tax have become necessary only to bring them into line with the proposed changes in personal income tax and do not constitute a change in the burden-sharing obligation for those concerned. Overall, with the same obligation to pay public burdens, with the amendments, we can significantly increase the number of small producers who can fulfil their registration and tax return obligations by less than the previous administration. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The bill and the related measures are an important step in improving the professional, legal and financing conditions of primary producers and family farmers. For the sake of the development of Hungarian agriculture, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill with their contributions, professional proposals and, not least, their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, One of the key points in the package of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economics in 2018 on the "Strengthening Agricultural and Food Economy, Prominent Rural Development" was the need to look at agricultural taxation and forms of operation and to rethink in some form, since this regulation will be twenty years old tomorrow, and the regulatory environment that gave people a very good opportunity to thrive in the countryside twenty years ago is now, in many cases, not to help them, but to prevent further development in certain forms of farming. After all, if we look at the thresholds that are now typical, when they were adopted, then we see that they were actually true at the moment of acceptance, as well as at the moment of personal income tax returns of HUF 600,000 today, and let's face it, at the beginning of the two thousand years, they were worth HUF 600,000 completely different than they were today. I think that this is a factual statement, but for those who have to live with it, this is no consolation. I think that there is no need to justify this in particular. [[16.40]] If you look at the threshold of up to HUF 8 million in the case of a family economy, which gives you the possibility of applying the small farmer's allowance, you see that, say, a family economy of five, if you multiply it by 8 million, you can live up to HUF 40 million in the tax benefits that you provide to the law, you simply didn't care to make an investment that would take your income over HUF 40 million, because quite simply more goes through the gap than what comes at customs. For him, the loss of tax benefits means that, although he is developing, he will have less income than he had before, because he will have to suffer very serious damage to the tax arm. So we were interested in, and we were working to make sure that this was not the case, and that we could manage in a tax and operating environment in the countryside that, let alone hinders, rather than encourage, people living in the countryside, either the farmers of origin or the family farmers, to develop investment, because the technical and technological renewal of the Hungarian agricultural economy is in the interest of all of us. We thought it was important that this could be done in the form of a legal personality, so even by starting or reorganizing a social enterprise that really provides opportunities for various developments. In Hungary, family forms play a key role, since this is basically what the backbone of our agriculture is based on. There are some 290 thousand people with an original producer's certificate, 83 thousand family members farm in 23.5 thousand family farms, but in comparison to this, I say that only 168 thousand people have submitted a request. I think this also shows that there are a lot of people in Hungary today who do not do real activities in agriculture, but who, because of the availability of benefits, can help the family, replace the original producer's card, or become a member of the family's farm. We have worked on this material for two years, it has been refined for two years, and I would like to thank the agricultural purse, the Ministry of Finance and the judicial wallet for the constructive attitude that we have been able to take this basic idea to the point that we can now talk about it here in Parliament. I am confident about the content of the legislation and the objectives that it seeks, because we have participated in a lot of host forums, either in the organisation of the chamber or in Magos, and the farming society is clearly looking forward to this legislation. On the basis of the calculations made so far, everyone will at least have a stable situation, but most farmers clearly have a positive change in their lives. I say the most important elements of the legislation. Three forms of operation should be distinguished, the prehistoric producer, the family farm of ancient farmers and the family agricultural companies. In the case of ancient farmers, many moments of life have shown why the narrowing regulation that is now in place is not lifelike. Consider here that if someone has a small strip of grapes, which obviously does not assume an agricultural business, but, let's say, they are doing it with an agricultural activity, and the neighbor is also a similar farmer, and if he has a device, say, a sprayer behind the tractor, then if he sprayed his own, then he could only actually spray his neighbor if, let's say, he created an individual business, because he couldn't perform such a service as an original producer. Let's be honest, it was more likely, and it's more realistic that it was solved somewhere in the gray area. I think that we are doing the right thing if we do not force people from agriculture into such a life situation. Let us create the framework with which they have the opportunity to live their lives in a legislative way, but to do so, we need a legislative environment that they can respect. Or even think of rural tourism, because if someone has a pig in their own home and, let's say, he doesn't want to sell it as a living animal, but, thinking about rural tourism, let's say, he wants to run a rural guest table, he hasn't been able to do it as a farmer. I think that we will do the right thing if we continue to give them this opportunity. It is important that what you have referred to, Mr State Secretary, will change the fact that if you do an activity as an original farmer, you will no longer want to do it as a self-employed person. I think that neither in the current regulatory framework has people been motivated to operate as many business forms as possible, but rather simply optimized their options. If we give you the benefits you still have, then I'm sure that no one wants to be a farmer, a self-employed entrepreneur for the same activity, or even a business, a social enterprise, for that purpose. That's why it's typical of one of the families. Invoicing the other to optimise tax conditions. I think this daily practice also shows that this regulation is necessary, timely, and puts questions on the table that need to be dealt with. 600,000 forints is the threshold below which you don't even have to write in the tax return the income of the original producer. This number will rise to approximately one million forints. It is approximately because this number comes out as a multiplication, and I think that this is one of the most important changes compared to the current legislation, that we are not finding a static number in the legislation, but a value that, as the minimum wage changes, will monitor the change of life, so it will be a dynamic element of this regulation. There are two types of tax options for primary producers, on the one hand, flat-rate taxation or detailed cost accounting. I think that there will probably be no one to choose a lot of cost accounting, why would they choose, that the whole system is designed to give a relief to those who are first-rate farmers and help them with flat-rate taxation. This is of great importance, because we have no other option in the world of the common agricultural policy within the European Union but tax policy to help farmers. By the way, we've looked at the European benchmarkes to use a foreign word, how they handle it. In almost all countries, there is tax regulation to help farmers, but much better, by the way, I note it quietly, not even at this time. Nevertheless, we want to do better than this, and I believe that the legislation that lies before this House is clearly better than what is currently in force. The limit of HUF 8 million, which is now the upper threshold of the small producer price girl, will rise to HUF 10 million in scale, does not actually have to pay taxes to the original producers under HUF 10 million turnover. I think it's a huge help. And let us not forget that this threshold of HUF 8 million has triggered the fact that the economies have been dismantled from today's Hungarian countryside. Thus, the economic units which, by the way, functioned as an organic unit were written on paper because they were able to optimize the tax, otherwise giving banks a serious head start, because the funding had an amazingly serious task for financial institutions when they had to decide whether someone could be financed or not. Let's be honest, we politicians, too, when it comes to economic policy, it is very difficult to make good decisions that we actually just sabotage how many farmers there are in this country, how many farmers we have when we want to build an agricultural economy. The threshold of HUF 20 million is, in the order of magnitude, at which flat-rate taxation can be used. I think that this is a very reasonable threshold. And a serious change from what we have here is that if someone now exceeds 8 million forints in terms of turnover by just one forint, he will have to pay personal income tax after 8 million forints. Compared to this, the legislation that is now in front of us says that personal income tax is to be paid only for the amount that exceeds the threshold. So, if, for example, a person exceeds the threshold by a million forints, this amount of HUF 10 million, then the law assumes that out of one million forints, the income is 100 thousand forints, and after the 100 thousand forints income, the 15 percent must be paid, the example being passed, 15 thousand forints. Thus, the farmer is obliged to pay HUF 15,000 personal income tax at HUF 11 million's turnover. [[16.50]] I think that this is a fairly fair tax burden. This is also a way of helping people in the countryside. There is an important difference from now on that subsidies will not be included in the income threshold or in the calculation of income, so this is also a major change compared to the current one. The family holding of the ancestors shall be the successor of the common prima facie card and the family holding, if you like, instead of an optional form of operation. Here we have set a limit on how long a family economy should be extended, because in fact it is a blend of ancient farmers: if there are two, then we are talking about double thresholds, if the three of us are triple, if four, then we are talking about quadruple thresholds. However, more than four family members need not be included in the system, since this does not provide any additional benefits. I think this is a fair thing, because in many cases, in today's environment, the tax burden on an undertaking is determined by how many close relatives live. This is by no means an objective tax base, and this was also worth changing. The next category is the circle of family agricultural companies, which is completely new in the life of Hungarian agricultural regulation, since this has not been the case so far. A cooperative, cooperative or forest holding company which fulfils two conditions may become a member: one that only carries out forest, agricultural activities and related ancillary activities; two that have a relationship or a chain of relatives between members. This is also a serious change from what we used to call for, not close relatives, but relatives or their chain. Anyone who receives a stamp from a family agricultural company in the National Agricultural Chamber will be able to apply for it with an important difference, such as, compared to a non-csmt kft, that he is a family farmer. In land traffic regulations, we all know that there is a difference between wanting to buy land as a family farmer or not as a family farmer, since in the pre-emptive line, the family farmer precedes non-family farmers. Of course, from the taxation side, we also had to touch the KFTs or BTs, the social enterprises, because we had to break through the glass ceiling mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Businesses had to be encouraged to develop to invest, which would increase their turnover, and to do so, the idea of extending this to other sources of income was, in fact, the tax exemption on rent paid to the owners of different companies. That's how we got to the point where it's tax-free, síja- és tao-free if someone takes the normative support they've received out of their company. Or it should be tao-free and syai-free if someone gives the land to their company for at least 15 years, they can take out their purchase price. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that there is a very serious change in the Hungarian countryside, and this legislation has a very serious and positive impact on their functioning. So I am asking this House to support this proposal, because I think that we can do a great deal in the service of the Hungarian countryside. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. What the Fidesz promises will happen will happen, won't it? We've talked about it today in a completely different case, with some irony. Unfortunately, I can say that in this law. And not because we do not support it, of course I can anticipate that we will have amendments to it, but overall, this is a package of legislation that actually reduces bureaucracy for those who are affected, really creates a clearer picture for those who are active in agriculture, depending on the way they operate, and indeed contains substantial tax and tax reductions, so I can say that for those who are affected, it does indeed contain positive elements, and that is why we will be able to support it. My problem is more with what is not in the legislation, or what we would otherwise have expected in the law on family farms, because it is a long-standing law, at least in terms of promises. Every semester of several parliamentary cycles since 2010 I keep you informed of when a comprehensive piece of legislation is finally coming in to settle this area, and you have always said that you are already in preparation, coming within a few months, just be patient. Now I'm finally happy to read your title, that it was submitted, and then, opening up, I realized that, in fact, it's just a very simplistic tax optimization law that helps the everyday lives of farms that have been operating in a grey zone or just trying to optimize taxation, which, once again, we can support, but we would have expected a much braver step from you. I do not think that this legislation will solve, for example, the fact that hundreds of thousands of people from the rural economy, which have come out of the past decades, will be able to reintegrate here. Today, those who are a serious farmer in a given settlement in a village can be two, three or even five families depending on the areas of the settlement and the local circumstances, and this is a very positive proposal for them and should be accepted. The question is that this will really make the Hungarian countryside more viable, really giving more families the opportunity to find their way back to the rural economy and to offer their children and grandchildren a truly quality life and a life encouraging them to stay in the country. I do not believe that this legislation is very timid and affects very few areas. I do not think that this will solve the shift in agricultural generation, which we are talking about again as much as a problem. I would add in parentheses, I know that it is not a Hungarian peculiarity, and most of Europe is struggling with it, but it would have been worth taking a more courageous approach to this issue. Or I could also mention the problem of inheritance, which is again being pushed around, and without which we can make any laws we can refer to the law on undivided common land, the problem will be re-produced. But what is most lacking in this law is the settlement of cooperatives and their affairs. It is very depressing to me that we are avoiding this topic so much, because in the context of the 2010 change of government, it seemed that this might be the case in which Jobbik is the best partner for the government if we talk about the problems of the Hungarian countryside and the solutions to the problems of the Hungarian countryside. Since then, we have failed to move forward in this, and even as rural and domestic natural resources become increasingly in the hands of a narrow circle, we are also getting further and further away from the possibility that through a cooperative model we can solve some fairer redistribution of the goods produced in the countryside. After all, if you look at the estate policy, what the state has done so far, if you look at the aid policy, the logic of the distribution of subsidies, or even the legislation, we all find that the ultimate goal for you is to cement these few families in the given settlement, which, thank you very much, lives well, and may never have lived well with the size of the estate they possess in Hungary, but we are losing the chance of bringing others into this circle. This opportunity had already been used in the first round when the state lands were first leased and then privatised to a large extent into the hands of people who should not be covered by a public land lease application. So to this day, we still find it unacceptable that even those with the largest estates, the most capable and the most subsidised, should have access to state aid, land, opportunities, legal support and European Union funds in a preferential way. So unfortunately, this logic is not changed by this legislation. I do not say that it is a bad law, as I said, which is in it, and we will agree and support it by the majority of it, but when I saw its title, I am not naive to you, but a ray of hope appeared in me because we might return to the thoughts that we started in 2010, and where there were a lot of common ground, at least in communication, about what we imagine about Hungary's future in the long term and the long term of living in the Hungarian countryside. [[17.00]] I'm sorry that you weren't brave enough to do this, or the outside lobby was too strong, and I obviously can't tell you that from the outside, but we would have expected a much more decisive step from you in the areas I listed as a shortage. Obviously, we are not going to let this go, so we are going to try to keep bombing the government verbally, in writing and in all possible forms, and we are going to try to frame these old fidesz promises on you. But overall, we continue to support and accept the tax optimizing and more realistic parts of the legislation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-20-116	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungarian agriculture has always been known and recognised throughout history for its high-quality crops throughout Europe. Today, Hungarian agriculture faces a number of major challenges, such as climate change, often unpredictable, extreme weather, long drought periods, the ageing of foreign competition and farming society, or just what my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy referred to by the often over-grabbed rule system. Of all these, the ageing of the farming community is perhaps the biggest challenge in Hungary and throughout the European Union, because 58 percent of Hungarian farmers are over 55 years old, and therefore generational change is essential in the Hungarian farming community, for which it is particularly important to support young farmers with great forces. I am very pleased that there have been a number of opportunities and applications for young farmers in recent years that have launched this process. We need further steps, that's what we're looking at. In the last year, even before the coronal virus epidemic, I have met countless times, and I have also talked to young farmers, such as the European Parliament election campaign, who have confirmed that the direction we started is a good direction, and they have also proposed further necessary decisions that could be passed to decision-makers both through Magos and through the youth divisions of the agricultural chamber. I think it is very important that young farmers, in their current state, want to be actively involved in shaping their own future, in such a way that they can deliver their own decisions, their own proposals, their own ideas on this subject, even through the two organisations, Magos or NAK, and then be incorporated into the various proposals, such as today. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Our shared responsibility is to launch programmes and trainings, create opportunities in the Hungarian agriculture that offer young people an atmosphere, motivation and an attractive career in agriculture. In order to achieve this objective, I consider it an important step in the legislative proposal before us, which the Agricultural Ministry has established in broad consultation, involving them in the negotiations, with a view to the interests of the parties concerned. This has often been criticised by my fellow left-wing Members on several occasions; it can be said that, if, somewhere, here, at this law, there has been the widest possible consultation before this, since the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Association of Farmers, various youth farmers' associations and companies have developed the version that is currently in front of us. In the bill, we can find comprehensive tax policy, agricultural administration and economic restructuring efforts, along which we can find new, the 21st century. Modern agricultural legislation will be established to meet the expectations of the century. The bill leaves unchanged the first generation category, which is the smallest subject of agricultural production, the form of operation of the natural person in the register of farmers aged 16 and over. Currently, more than 290 thousand people have a valid original producer ID. As a new form of operation, the family economy of ancient farmers will be introduced, which will be created by combining the current common prima facie activity and the current family economy. Under the new legislation, therefore, the farmer can carry out his agricultural activity in two ways: either on his own or as a member of his family's farm. The family farm of the ancestors will be a new form of operation which represents a production community of at least two family members. At the same time, a farmer can only be a member of the family farm of an ancient farmer. Another major change in the bill is that tax burdens will be reduced in all production categories and the taxation system and process will be simplified. I think that both simplification and reduction of the tax burden are steps which should enjoy broad support here in Parliament, as we continue the tax reduction process so far, and in this bill, we are releasing farmers from a number of forward-looking and significant tax burdens. No farmer can do worse with the new legislation, but can only get in a more favourable position, which can also contribute to the whitening of the economy, which is also not the last aspect. Instead of the category of pre-producers currently taxed in three ways, it is proposed to establish a single category free of personal income tax, provided that the income from the pre-production activity does not exceed five times the annual minimum wage. The taxation of the family economy of primary producers will result in the possibility of choosing a flat-rate tax up to an income equal to 40 times the minimum wage, and in the case of higher income, a detailed cost accounting will have to be applied. The more favourable tax conditions and the family economy of new original farmers are a step towards reducing the administrative burden on agricultural activity, whitening it, strengthening the primary producers and achieving a long-awaited and long-awaited generation change in the farming community. Zoltán Magyar I would like to respond to a suggestion from my better friend because basically he also said in support of several sections of the law about who started from and who thought about the world in 2010. Well, my fellow Member, you have changed more than we have. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, honourable Members and Members. We'll get back to work. We can hear the opinion of the lead speaker of the MSZP group, followed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, If we are talking about how to improve the preservation of the countryside in Hungary, I can say that we are faced with a relatively good initiative and I predict that we will support this initiative, this bill, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party. But let's talk a little bit about what we are doing about the countryside in Hungary today! There is a survey by the County City Association, which deals with the fact that there are about 3,200 settlements in Hungary, and within nearly 50 years 800 settlements are doomed to death, cannot be saved, is so old that whatever intervention we take will not succeed. 300 settlements will disappear in Hungary within ten years. If we look at these numbers, we can say that we are facing a very big problem, but this is not only the peculiarity of Hungary, but also the peculiarity of Europe, when we talk about how Europe is, Hungary is ageing and how attractive the countryside is for young Hungarians. The speakers before me have also said how important it is that, if we are to bring laws before the House and try to resolve them with these laws, such as, say, ancient farmers and family farms, whether it is to facilitate administrative matters or to facilitate taxation, we are talking about important things, but we should talk more about why we have not been able to attract young people to rural life for many years. When we talk about farming, family farming, farming the land, everyone always remembers that it's not an easy life, it's a very, very difficult life. If you work on the ground, if you work with animals, if you work in gardening, all of them require a very, very difficult life from the family that does this activity every day. Rather, it should be said that it takes some kind of determination, madness, to choose this existence, this way of life. I would add, as a countryman, that I would say that, along with all the beauty and misery of rural life, I think I can say to you: I love rural life and I really like living in the countryside. [[17.10]] But it is very, very difficult for people who choose this form of existence. And as Lőrinc Nacsa said, if I remember correctly, 58 percent of these producers are over 65 years of age, and they should work as much as possible on the legislation, the Members of Parliament, on how to make generational change attractive, and on how to encourage young people to choose these forms of activity, start a family in the countryside, raise a child there, and develop their economy and settlement there. My fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, was also critical of the past ten years' work. I have to confirm here that we could not always say that the distribution of state land has been properly carried out, that the new large landowners have grown in Hungary, that these economies have been created, or that the structure of the food industry has changed. On this basis, I can say that we could also make very, very many criticisms. But if we are talking about this one proposal, I can say that we can fully support it and we will vote in favour of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-20-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that we are now in the debate of a law where three factions have put three leading speakers who have nothing to do with agriculture. In other words, we can finally discuss agricultural issues by bringing in other aspects. I think it is a very important thing, and I could say that it is also a change compared to the agricultural disputes of the last few years, when most of all forgive me, but there were debates in this House about people who were personally involved in agriculture, either as former President of the Act or as current farmers. I think this is an important aspect in order to get a little further ahead of the agriculture debate here in Parliament, and to make this debate less intense from here on out. When I took this bill into my hands, I admit honestly, for the first time I thought that the usual agricultural debate in Parliament would be nothing exciting in this bill, each one of us would interpret it according to his own ideology. Then, I must say, I was terribly surprised. I'm really surprised. For the ruling party to pass a law that basically tries to help people without supporting its own oligarchs, it's a very positive thing for me. I have to say, it's an absolute positive thing. This bill says that it is trying to settle agricultural conditions in such a way that the leading speaker of Fidesz referred to them from the grey economy, I have to say that this is extremely positive, given that in the last ten years, as perhaps the rector of Corvinus University, who has been close to you, has basically been the basis of your policy, the kind of corruption that completely transcends the Hungarian state system. It is therefore a great pleasure for me that you are saying here that, in connection with this law, my fellow Member Győrffy said that we should get these people out of the grey zone. I think it's very positive. It is also extremely good that this bill has an impact on simplification. When I think about how many cases there are, let me give you an example, where, despite my attempts as a Member of Parliament, I simply can't get past bureaucracy. I'll give you an example. We wrote a letter to my fellow Members, I asked a written question here at Parliament's sitting, and at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee I also asked orally to allow me to look into certain military technical contracts, and it simply did not happen. So I couldn't get past bureaucracy. The lucky thing is, now there's a bill where that's gonna happen. So what I can say is that this is a very positive, forward-looking bill, which the Democratic Coalition will support. This may be because the Secretary of State will tell his minister, whom I spoke to yesterday, and he said that he is in Luxembourg right now on one of the last or last-to-last rounds of the next seven years of the common agricultural policy, because the best agriculture and rural development minister in the last ten years is István Nagy. I do not know that this is the glory of looking at all the other ministers, but it is a fact and a fact that the Minister has done a lot of things in Hungarian agriculture with his proposals. Especially if we compare it to the work of János Lazarus, who also got caught up in agriculture. He said, because of the youth farmer's application, that the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development is the ÁVH itself; unfortunately, my fellow Member Nacsa is no longer here. This is important because the Prime Minister's Office, led by him, rejected it at second instance, but no longer advertised it. Meanwhile, the then Minister for Rural Development, Sándor Fazekas, remained silent. How did the entire agricultural administration work in this regard when the general, the agricultural general, didn't protect his soldiers? In this respect, I can say that the current agricultural management understands the agricultural world. We do not agree on everything, and I would like to say this, for example, in the case of undivided common property, where my fellow Member may have indicated that there will still be problems, especially with the institution of incorporation, but this particular bill is the problem in the existing structure that my fellow Members have talked about, if obviously not trying to solve fully, but forward-lookingly. At the same time, and this is what Member Nacsa and other fellow Members have referred to as the problem that this bill does not solve, how we know how to forgive the expression and make Hungarian agriculture sexy in order for the generation change to take place. My fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that we can literally say that in animal husbandry, people are hitting on blood, urine, fecals, and that when people are on holiday in crop production, the work begins, there is no way to go on holiday. And every year in the garden, gardeners stand there, and they're excited to see if everything's gonna be okay. We have to admit, and we have said this many times in Parliament, that, indeed, agriculture is a bitter job, that is very difficult. This is not attractive for young people today, for the most part. In addition to such proposals, we have the task of discussing how to make Hungarian agriculture attractive to the next generation. Because in the end, we will be faced with 80-90-year-olds dealing with agriculture because there will be no successors to solve it. Let me give you an example of how slowly things are going on. To discuss the report on the state of the agricultural economy in 2018 here in the Hungarian Parliament in 2020. However, the Secretary of State knows that I have raised numerous objections to the proposals that a year or more is longer than the evaluation period, while competitiveness, diversification and development would be helped by these subsidies. Mr Secretary, this needs to be changed, because this tax exemption will not help, nor will tax relief help. If we look at the bill, in particular, one or two paragraphs, I would like to say the following to you. We appreciate the fact that there are many organisations involved in shaping the Hungarian agricultural policy. We would consider it unworthy if only the Chamber of Agriculture were raised in the preamble. I would also like to say that this is a bill, not a book where we thank you. If the Agricultural Ministry wants to thank someone, say thank you to those working in agriculture. I think this is a bit of an exaggeration, given that the Chamber of Agriculture, which, by the way, receives taxpayers' money, clearly confirms that my fellow Member Győrffy is also doing this with taxpayers' money. The state's paying him to do this job. Thank you to farmers who participate and pass on their own experiences. It is very important, and it must be made clear that there are points in the bill that are not entirely clear to me. [[17.20]] One of them is 29. §, which deals with the sejai law, and it is extremely important that we define things very accurately. I'll wait for the Secretary of State to come forward with the proposal. [[Sándor Farkas points out the document before him.]] Yeah, I can see that, that's why. So there, we have to decide what the rules are. So this could be, it could be... the essence of a law is to clearly help the administration, to help people. In this paragraph, it is not necessarily clear to me what you want. Set a rule that is obviously being discussed with everyone, and then proceed on the basis of that rule and keep accounting for income from agriculture. I think that, and this is extremely important, that this is a bill for family farms. That's why I think that part is 60. §, and which is about the Land Traffic Act and who says, and I would like to say here, is not here, Secretary of State Miklós Soltész, who, in his reply to a speech before the agenda yesterday, qualified me on his knees! I would like to say that you should talk to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, as he said, according to the rumors of the Parliament. I have nothing to do with this, and I have never once said anything like this, and frankly, I find it outrageous that the Secretary of State attaches sentences, words I never said to me, to say that his fellow warrior said! I'd just like to say that because here they'll come again and say that I'm attacking the churches. No, I'm not attacking you, but I would like to say that I would like to put in the family-economic bill that the established church, its internal ecclesiastical legal person, can acquire ownership of the land on the basis of a maintenance, annuity, care and gifting contract, as well as for the purpose of establishing and extending a cemetery, and I do not understand how this got involved in this bill. I think they might have just put this in, 'cause I don't get it. But the Secretary of State will explain to us what kind of family economy this is, what kind of kinship there is, and why this proposal should be included. I would like to emphasise once again that I think it is very, very important that the bill from the grey zone said that it would like to get people out. I think it is very important, and that is why I said that the Democratic Coalition faction is obviously trying to make some clarification; I think the two-thirds will vote without it. I think that sometimes it is worth listening to us in these matters and finding compromise solutions that are in everyone's best interests, but we basically support the bill. At the same time, allow me to draw attention to the fact that David Attenborough is presenting the Netherlands in a film entitled Life on Our Planet. The Netherlands is a rather densely populated country, full of family farms that have nowhere to expand. Dutch farmers talked to experts about what could come out of this land. I say this in order to get back to the beginning of my speech, not to see how good it is to have people speaking in agricultural themes who are not involved in crop production or livestock production, but those who can bring in other aspects, but how to make Hungarian agriculture more efficient. So, Dutch farmers became experts in that, and apparently they consulted a lot of people on how to make the most of this land. Within two generations, yield was increased tenfold, while less water, pesticides, and fertilizers were used, and less carbon dioxide was emitted. I am only saying this because it is very welcome that, in the current structure, this issue, the issue of family farms, is being taken towards bleaching, towards a more secure income. But every day we have to ask ourselves how this will result in a more efficient, diversified agriculture, which will also provide for Hungarian citizens, which will also meet the demand of the next generation to pay attention to the environment, and to the future generation, together with agricultural production. I think this is a very, very important task. That is why I have submitted a written question to the agricultural purse in order to try to find a solution to how to initiate a debate day in Parliament, not a day full of political lounges, but a decent day of debate about what the future of Hungarian agriculture could be like, what the current situation is and how to progress. Because, fellow Members, we can think of many things differently about agricultural matters, I would like to say that apples, sheep meat and tomatoes, that just a few examples are not right-wing or left-wing, it is best if they are Hungarian. The meat of the sheep is definitely, I can say that as a scratch, because I think the sheep of Karcag is probably the best sheep's stew cooked in the area. But the fact that future generations can enjoy Hungarian apples and not only meet Polish apples in large shopping malls is that, by the way, not everything is forced on the consumer from above, in order for the Hungarian farmer to be able to live, but also a balanced solution, we need to talk about it. I would like to thank the agricultural purse for this bill. Once again, I would like to make it clear that we are in favour of leaving the grey zone, supporting income security in this area. We would like you to help us, not us, but the Hungarian countryside, or, as many people have said here, the Hungarian countryside should have the strength to be worthy and want to live in the countryside and not just want and live in the countryside, but to find the opportunity to live again from agriculture, crop production or livestock production. I think it's in everyone's best interest, not today, no misunderstanding, but for future generations. We are sitting here in the Hungarian Parliament to think not only about today, but also about tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-20-122	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker for the LMP, please.
u2020-10-20-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, The LMP also welcomes the Government and the National Chamber of Agriculture's initiative on the Family Farms Act. The objectives set out in the preamble to the Act are broadly agreed, and we consider it of particular importance that the backbone of agricultural production is determined by the form of production based on family farms. We are convinced that only generation-wide production activities can permanently ensure the survival and growth of the countryside. Small and medium-sized family farming can ensure that the diversity and adaptability of agriculture is maintained. Therefore, we would very much like to support the adoption of a law on family farms that supports the objectives set to a large extent. However, the legislation submitted in its current form is not entirely suitable for this because, on the basis of the draft law, the smallest small producers who process their own crops may lose in this form. By redefining the activities that can be performed as an ancestors, they fall out, it seems, of the primate circle. The activities that can be carried out as an ancestor have so far been listed in Annex 6 to the SAY Law. The draft law would remove this list and propose to use the definition of agricultural activity in the Land Traffic Act. However, this is a noticeable difference. The biggest problem we see is that small-scale food production, production and sales are being removed from primary production activities, and the new definition makes it uncertain what exactly we can understand in prehistoric activity. For some examples, let me show you what we're thinking. Animal farming, for example, we know, is an agricultural activity, but by definition it is not clear, for example, whether keeping, fattening, wages are part of the framework of animal farming, or whether it is already an agricultural service. Another example: crop production is an agricultural activity, so the sale of eating wheat is certainly a primal activity. Is the sale of feed grain or the cultivation and baling of hay in meadows a primal activity? [[17 .30]] I would like to draw attention here to the fact that there are some things that are misunderstood, and it may be important to clarify them. I will give you one or two more examples: for example, it is already within the framework of the production of feed, and what I have mentioned is whether this constitutes a complementary activity or whether the sale of a mixture of own-growing cereals is still a pre-production activity or a complementary activity. There are other examples that might be important to clarify. I'm moving on. For example, small-scale food producers, who process, cook, pickle or produce many other products and thus base their economies on the sale of higher added value products, can lose this law if these clarifications do not happen. But with the adoption of the law in its current form, small wineries, producers of their own fruits or producers of animal feed also lose. That is what we propose to consider and correct in the draft law. What we see as a solution is that it should be made clear in the definition of legislation that we consider the processing and marketing of crops produced in our own economy to be one of the basic activities of agricultural activities, and therefore to be classified as one of the basic activities of ancient producers. In our view, it is sufficient for primary producers to set the income limits for flat-rate taxation. Producers who achieve the profitability of their economies by processing their own crops, using a higher value added product should not be punished, but should be further supported separately. For farmers and family farms, it does not matter how much they can diversify their activities and how much added value they add to their own crops. It is a significant novuma of the draft law, we can see that it is also possible to carry out additional activities in addition to the activities of the prehistoric producers. With this, the economy can obviously be diversified, it can stand on more feet. In particular, it is important to increase the revenue limit for additional activities in the case of primary producers and family farms. In the family economy, family members with different skills and interests can work together on the success of the common economy. If we create a greater opportunity to diversify their activities, it will be much easier to involve family members with potentially different interests in the life of the economy and thus create a chance to build successful family economies across generations. The change can also improve the maintenance capacity of the countryside by giving the growing members of the farming family a wider opportunity to stay in the family economy, thereby making economic transfer more smooth and successful over time. For this reason, the LMP proposes to set a limit for additional activities instead of a quarter of the annual income, opening the way for the younger generation of farming families to find their place within the framework of the family economy. The growing generation can become part of the family economy by making it multi-legged, more profitable by carrying out additional activities. Whether this activity is rural tourism, craft activity or agricultural service, it will certainly match the characteristics of the family economy. This measure is key to keeping young people in the countryside and to ensuring that economic transfer is successful. In addition to the comments and proposals submitted, the LMP is still working on the submission of some amendments. Our aim is to ensure that the detailed rules of the law serve the best possible interests of small producers and family farmers. Such an important issue is, for example, the possibility of allowing pre-producers to sell their products. This would create the opportunity for the sales cooperation of ancient producers. It would open up the possibility for co-operating producers to sell each other's products, thereby broadening their product range and facilitating the burden of market access for each other. So we'd like you to consider that. Sales through trustees would also help this interesting kit supported by the Hungarian National Bank, and we have recently learned that they support the development of short supply chains, the spread of basket communities and shopping communities. These social initiatives are spreading more widely, but I think you know that very well. The strengthening of their role is also very important because of the supply of consumers and the maintenance of producers. Even in the organisation of shopping communities, it would be a great relief to sell goods. The transformation and administration of the family economic system of primary producers is a task requiring considerable preparedness and considerable customer service capacity. I'm sure you're fully aware of that, too. Therefore, we will propose to allow ancient producers to comply with this administration in electronic form. Electronic administration can take a heavy burden off the National Agricultural Chamber's villager network and make administration smoother. The draft law also lays down complicated rules for determining the tax advance. In this context, we will present two amendments to reduce the administrative burden on primary producers. We would consider it the luckiest option to abolish the tax advance obligation for ancient farmers. We do not believe that this is of such importance for the revenue of the budget. As an alternative, we recommend that the tax advance be determined on the basis of 50% of the previous year's income. In the case of the family economy of ancient farmers, it is an important issue to make the ceiling for flat-rate taxation more flexible. We hope that we can propose a solution that will better follow the number of members involved, but does not give rise to abuse. The way we see this is to take the number of full-time farmers into account when setting the revenue limit. The draft law can be a significant step forward in the area of the types of farming concerned, in terms of simplifying their operation and taxation, but we cannot go without saying that the government and the Parliament will also have further work to do to help and support small producers. We would like to point out that, in the interests of small producers, changes are also needed in relation to land traffic regulations, aid policy and special food chain rules. In the mention of the Land Traffic Act, we would like to mention that there is still a lack of a decree on the implementation of the Land Traffic Act. This failure to establish a regulation creates an extreme legal uncertainty in the exercise of pre-emptive and pre-lease rights. We ask the Government to remedy this omission as soon as possible and to prevent further litigation from taking place from this legal uncertainty and further damage to the rights of those who are entitled to pre-purchase. Finally, let me point out in the debate on this draft law that LMP, the Green Party of Hungary, has submitted a proposal for a decision to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%. We see that VAT cuts are not only in the interest of people living in agriculture, but also an important immediate measure to break down food prices, and social justice requires food for our basic needs to fall under the reduced VAT rate. I am asking the Parliament here now, and I hope that it may come to this, in our hope, to support this proposal. I thank you for your attention. We hope that our proposals will be considered and that the proposals can be incorporated into the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.40]]
u2020-10-20-124	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member or Member may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome this proposal, because, when I listened to the lead speaker of Fidesz, it was almost as if he had been listening to one of my conversations about the fact that, if we do not introduce the power of independent management of families in Hungarian society, we do not urge each family to have a kind of business that provides a stable basis for the production of their common goods, livelihoods and quality life, then we will not be able to have a strong society that overcomes any danger or difficulties. When I have watched the societies of the southern countries in my 50 years, I have always asked them whether there will be any difficulty in keeping them alive; that they can survive; that they can remain strong; that they can find solutions; that they can show that they can endure everything; that everything can be overcome for them. That's because I've always asked you why your entire economic life is based on family funds. If we look at Italy alone, there is no family that doesn't have any business. Of course, there is a family of eight or ten who live separated under the same roof, have a small restaurant, or have a small boarding house, but in the meantime one of the children is a doctor at the local hospital, the other is a teacher at the school, and after work they go home and get into the family's economic activity and continue to work. Or even Austria, where this is also typical, although not in the same order of magnitude as in Italy, for example. And how good it is that, at least in the field of agriculture, the thinking that, I think, must not be stopped, must be continued. Of course, it is not the agricultural purse, but the economic wallet or the Prime Minister's own need to start by expressing himself that he is also calling on family-based businesses for other economic activities. And they have to be subsidised, they have to be given subsidies so that families can use this business form, so that family business form, to keep more iron in the fire, and build their lives on much more confident, much stronger ground and generate the necessary income. Now I've named agricultural entrepreneurs the so-called status law, and we're discussing your proposal. I am saying that the status law, because it provides legal frameworks, provides three legal frameworks for the basic form of future family farms, and that is why it is probably what my fellow Member of LMP was missing from the legislation, because the other conditions that she would require in this proposal cannot be formulated in this regard because what was the basis here? Three categories have been created, and other relevant legislation, in which this activity is concerned, had to be harmonised, and the provisions of those legislation had to be harmonised for this new set of rules and terminology. One question remained open to me, and I hope that either Mr. Secretary of State or the lead speaker of Fidesz will help me with this. There's no problem as long as we're talking about a farmer, because it's an individual form of enterprise. There is no problem when we talk about the family economy of ancient farmers. This is not a problem because it says that the civil code rules apply to civil law companies, which is a loose form of association or loose form of cooperation; it is not subject to any other register. In this case, the family members join together, and then they are now a civil law company. Yes, but here is the family farm company, and I may be the only one who is uninformed about how this fits into the register of companies, since these forms of business are registered in the Chambers of Agriculture. Yes, but it is in the legislation, which is perfectly natural that it is the cooperative, business and forest ownership that are the so-called framework form of this family agricultural company. Yes, but if you're creating an economic company, it's gonna require a court-martial, whether you like it or not, because otherwise this business won't work. That's why I'm asking: if this family agricultural company is operating in a corporate form, because I didn't find any exculpatory provisions in this legislation, then doesn't he have to be registered under the rules of the Civil Code? Will it only be registered by the Chamber of Agriculture? I am asking this because, in relation to the form of company, the civil code today, which is a basic law of civil law, says that companies that are established in a form defined in the civil code must be registered in the register. But now the Chamber of Agriculture appears only as a registration body. Let me ask you, what will be the procedure in this case? Because there can be two types of registration organisations of the same type at the same time, only then do I think that either in this legislation or in the legislation on business registers, so, in some way, it must be determined that this form of agricultural company is actually only an agricultural chamber or, in addition to the register of companies, the agricultural chamber will also be the registration body. This is an absolute question of rights-dogmatics, and I do not want to spoil my pleasure with the legislative proposal. So, your job for the government, especially the pandemic, has shown how weak society is in the face of unexpected challenges. And not only is it powerless because maybe everything is new, maybe not prepared for it, maybe there was a lot of unknowns, a lot of new things to adapt to, but also because there are no certain support behind the people who want to work, the kind of basic structure in which they feel safe. So I thank the government for bringing this new legal framework for the work of the first, otherwise extremely wide social group, a very difficult group of people, to the House, and we will vote for it, but with great respect I would like to ask that a strong Hungarian family system, which will be able to cope with all the difficulties and problems, be created in order to create family businesses as widely as possible and, of course, by creating their value-based state support. Our society is extremely polarised, the generations do not live together, which makes it extremely difficult for the kind of self-sufficient and brave, strong family system that would need to have this stability not only for those living in agriculture, but for all those who wish to develop their abilities in other areas of economic life. So thank you very much for your attention, thank you for the proposal, and, of course, I will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-20-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that no one has applied for a two-minute speech. Here are some further speeches: first, Mr István Jakab, representative of Fidesz, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[17.50]]
u2020-10-20-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I must admit, I was a little surprised because I felt differently in the order, so I was not prepared. I ask for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, It is good to debate in Parliament today, here in the Chamber, because today there were two laws on the agenda, his general debate was on the agenda, where we dealt with the countryside, where I can say with my heart that we have dealt with our lives and our future for the most part. Why do I say that? Because our current law, which is before us, has a decisive influence on our quality of life, our safety, our environment, how much we can live, how healthy food we can produce, consume, and determine from a national and national strategy perspective how real food sovereignty is today, how much there is a guarantee that we can provide food to the citizens of the country, the citizens of the nation, despite the most difficult circumstances. Well, I think that the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian economy, is proven, proven in the pandemic situation, proven in the most difficult weather conditions, and constantly proves that, even in the midst of climate change, it can produce at a high level not only climate change, but also under partly changed climate conditions. CHAPTER XXI The challenges of the century, I think, are very significant. I think that the technological change that we are now in is the 21st. This was obviously enforced by changes in market conditions, climate change, and many changes in our way of life. We are talking about new technologies; precision farming today, which makes a major contribution to protecting our environment, makes a major contribution to producing healthy food, a digital agricultural strategy, which is the basis for precision farming. Today, the person who wants to remain competitive in agriculture must have modern knowledge and, moreover, we are under enormous pressure, which is called bureaucracy, which I think has increased significantly with our accession to the European Union. Dear Parliament, Why did I list all these challenges? Because, in fact, the current farmers and young farmers who will take over the burden of farming during the generation change will have to face these challenges, because in order to be able to carry on our farming activities at a modern level, huge investments are needed. These investments are a serious burden on the economy, as hundreds of millions... Now, if we want to buy a significant, modern machine, then a serious combine is around 100 million, if I want to buy a modern livestock farm in a dairy cowhouse furnished with a milking machine, it certainly costs a lot of billions with a building, let us not talk about breeding animals, because it is not worth much more than ten thousand liters. Why am I telling you all this? Because if we continue to burden this economy with a significant amount of tax and withdrawal and do so in a less transparent way, we must increasingly expect young people not to do so. Therefore, many of my fellow Members have said, let me join them in saying that there is a long, more than two years of work ahead of you right now, indeed, we have tried to discuss, on a purely professional basis, humanly, what is strengthening, what is helping, what is giving young people the promise of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that if the little misunderstandings that I think about and then Mr Secretary of State answers, I do not want to deepen in this, we have the answers, which have been raised here, we have indeed created the basis for substantive changes. I am convinced, by the way, that we have borrowed the land from our grandchildren, but today, here in Parliament, it is our responsibility to really help the new generation. We don't have to worry because more and more young people choose farming. I do not want to advertise, the Magos Young Master's organization now organizes itself at such a level that it was a surprise to us, when young people approach the problem in a completely different logic, speak to each other in a different way, agree and take the most modern methods from each other. They are able to organize their lives, and they are able to participate in national, European and international competitions. Yes, we have the power, we have the knowledge, we have the faith, we have the determination, obviously we have to help. I would also like to point out, perhaps, because it has been mentioned here today, and it is not my place to reply again, but since I am convinced that the issue of succession is entirely identical, yes, this subject should be on the agenda, because in the long term, in fact, in the course of the measures taken so far, if we are also to settle the succession, we are able to provide young people with a capable, viable, stable vision. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that my colleagues, colleagues, have said that the Secretary of State has presented the substance of the law, and I would rather not do so. I would like to conclude by saying that the Hungarian countryside is organised, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy takes over the entire circle of farmers, takes over the entire manufacturing industry, takes over the entire food processing industry, maintains a stable, strong network in order to truly serve and serve people living in the countryside. Obviously, this requires that we work professionally, that we work together, that we believe in us, and that we are able to work together at sectoral level. I must inform you that, at the time of the preparation of this law, representatives of almost every sector, livestock, crop production, gardening, any sector we take, have responded in substance, calmly and in an approach that addresses the problems. I ask you to support it, and I think that the countryside can only give it back to all Hungarian citizens in a meaningful way: it maintains a viable countryside and does not ask for money, provides healthy food, and it serves our future and serves our health and our lives. I wish you to be successful, and thank you for your cooperation. Support the proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2020-10-20-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, Mr János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, tells his thoughts. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the contributions from the speakers before me. There have been educational opinions, sometimes along with the intricacies of my fellow left-wing Members. By Mrs Vadai, the apple was compared to the sheep's stew, and we learned from her that agriculture should be sexier. In addition to all this, as the jasers say here, I recommend it to my fellow left-wing Members: the land is not only in flowerpots, hay is not shoveled, manure is covered on the ground and not on asphalt, and potatoes are in the bugs, not in Parliament. Dear fellow Members, In my view, we can be united in the proposal for a law on the family economy before us, that since the establishment of the original producer as a legal and tax category in 1997, such a reform has not been such an attempt to convert. We can also agree that the transformation has a positive impact on all stakeholders. There will be no particular task for any of the farmers involved. They will all automatically be included in a new category that will provide them with a significant tax relief from 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, Why not earlier? Why is it not more? Of course, there is room for questions in this debate as an instrument which the opposition is almost obliged to use. But with all due respect, I would like you to look at the tax reduction measures of previous years in other sectors, take into account the burden-bearing capacity of the Hungarian economy, think about the responsibility of maintaining governance and economic stability, not in the past or in utopia. Let's look into the present and see what opportunities are now opening up. Let us look at these figures once again, and I would ask my fellow Members to give serious consideration to this: after the activities of the ancient farmers, HUF 966,000 is free of annual income. The tax exemption limit will therefore increase by nearly HUF 400 000, and in such a case no tax return will be required. In fact, if the annual income of the farmer exceeds this amount by a few forints, it will only have to be declared after the additional income. And the positive changes are not yet over, because normative aid does not need to be treated as revenue, its amount does not increase the tax base. Ancient producers who have been exempt from tax for up to HUF 8 million as flat-rate taxpayers after a maximum of HUF 4 million in revenue or 40% in small-scale production costs, will now be flat-rate flat-rate taxpayers up to HUF 9.6 million annually. In these cases, the tax exemption limit is therefore exceeded by an amount of around HUF 1.5 million. So far, the income limit for flat-rate taxation has been HUF 8 million. If we accept this proposal, this limit will be 19.3 million forints from 2021. The tax liability arises only after the income above the above mentioned HUF 9.6 million, and the flat-rate taxpayer can determine his income by reducing the cost ratio of 90 per cent of his income. In addition, the previously mentioned discount on normative subsidies applies here too. I think it speaks for itself. However, we could continue to do so, since the bee-keeping activity itself, in parallel, becomes tax-free up to HUF 966,000 a year. This facilitation will also give a small amount of help to many producers. And we haven't talked about the family economy of ancient farmers, that is, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Family members working as an ancient producer in Autumn can opt for flat-rate taxation up to 40 times the annual minimum wage. If this option were given in 2020 this year, it would represent a limit of HUF 77.3 million. Taking into account the state of the minimum wage in January next year, it will reach a limit of the size of the buyer calculation and similarity. Only in the case of higher annual income must the Örög be required to apply detailed cost accounting. I hope that this measure, the creation of this new category of operations, will enhance the desire for more family members to participate in agricultural activities than before, or increase the willingness to cooperate among relatives who have tried to thrive separately. This option broadens the foundations for generational change and also whitens the sector. And we still haven't finished the numbers. I think it should be stressed that I would like to talk about the possibility for cooperatives and companies, the category of qualification for family farming. We have already heard that this rating is available to companies whose members are in a chain of relatives. Although no new category of taxation has been established for them, they receive a significant discount. In their case, it will be exempt from the payment of the agricultural aid, which is not eligible for aid, the payment of the mortgage relating to the purchase of land, the amount granted to the member of the csmt for the purchase of land, up to a maximum of HUF 50 million per year. The tax exemption condition is that the member does not receive a lease on that land at the same time as the amount received for the mortgage repayment and that he can transfer the land purchased from the amount of land purchased free of charge to the company for 15 years. Ladies and gentlemen, All of this is now, and we must vote for it now, so that farmers can take this opportunity next year, get these benefits, and keep the amounts that have been paid as taxes to the state register. It is also important to mention how many Hungarian farmers, how many Hungarian farming families are affected by this: more than 290 thousand farmers, 23 500 family farms with 83 thousand members, who do it every day to get healthy domestic food on the Hungarian people's table. Our honourable fellow Member, we are talking about us and the undisclosed goal of helping the generational shift in this sector, so that the majority of the farming community over the age of 55 hand over the stage to young people, and also indirectly, an excellent opportunity to help the Hungarian population supply as broad as possible products of domestic quality. Ladies and gentlemen, Such a transformation, such a reform has not been made in this segment of the industry. The system will be simpler, more transparent, but most importantly, there will be much more favourable conditions. The professional legitimacy of the bill is simply confirmed by the fact that, apart from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and Magos also actively contributed to this concept. In the spirit of these thoughts, I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-20-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Tibor Nunkovics asked for a two-minute speech, Mr Jobbik. Here.
u2020-10-20-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I wasn't planning on commenting on this agenda, I'll tell you honestly, but as János Pócs began his speech, I don't know what to say. I think you've got the wrong day. [[18.10]] Yesterday was Monday, yesterday there were immediate questions, then there were such ember arguments. I do not know how well you listened to me when this debate began, and it was indeed a debate in quotes, because we could not talk seriously about a debate because everyone said that they agreed with this amendment, and they also welcome this proposal. Obviously, the opposition representatives, who have not otherwise been involved in its development, should be allowed to express their views or to say just so if they have any questions about this. The Secretary of State is here to answer these questions, and if he fails, it will obviously take place in the detailed debate at the committee meeting. But taking a peaceful debate in this direction, starting to take the left and getting into everyone's head, it doesn't make any sense. What I can offer you, my fellow Member, is that the next time a text is written to you, because clearly, this is also written, you should stick to what you have recorded before, and forget it, because you are only taking the conversation in the wrong direction. Thank you.
u2020-10-20-132	For tactical reasons, I quickly give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the representative of Fidesz, for a normal speech. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-133	Mr President, thank you for the tactical word. First of all, thank you very much for your comments, and also thank you for the inclusion of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy in the preamble as, by the way, the organization that initiated the draft and took the lion's share in its development. I think I will also thank my colleagues for the work that they have invested in this place, because there is a lot of effort in this, and thank the government for its openness to do so. It's obviously a pride to stand here and on this subject, in quotes, as we've heard here, to argue, which is so kind to us, and in which we have invested so much energy over the past few years. Let me give you a few thoughts. I'm very sorry for the three marked congressmen who said "leading speaker" and there's only one more here. This also shows me how good it would be if there were politicians in the opposition who live in agriculture and agriculture, and they might not leave after the main speaker when we discuss such a serious topic, because I would like to answer some points. On the one hand, the change in generations has, in an interesting way, become a very attacked part of this legislation, not even the legislation, but, on the other hand, the whole agricultural policy. It is an interesting social phenomenon: here some people imagine that agriculture is a gold mine, while we are faced with the fact that few people want to deal with it, and the generations who see it up close do not find it so attractive. And then I would like to further strengthen this great unity front, my fellow Members, by trying to be united in the interests of the sector in the European Union, because, by the way, with such people as Green Deal and the biodiversity strategy, we are about to destroy this sector right now. So they're setting out abnormal instruments that we won't be able to achieve, otherwise we agree with the goals. So I would like to strengthen that in you to continue to protect the interests of the sector, because there is something to it. Support policy has also been discussed on land policy, let me give you a number or two. Support policy: over 80 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises in the rural development programme received the nearly 1500 billion HUF that we can now manage. Hungary, as I understand it, has introduced this type of withdrawal, such as degression, as the only one in the European Union. As a result of land ownership policy, instead of the proportion of 40 percent family farms and 60 percent social enterprises in 2010, we now find that 55 percent of the land is owned by family farms. Please, what are we talking about? Let's not pretend things were moving in the opposite direction here. I would like to respond to the suggestion made by Mrs Vada. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy performs a public task and receives EU or domestic funding for it. This does not include the involvement in or the initiative of draft legislation, which is covered by the membership fee paid by the members of the Chamber, so this is not a task for which we receive public funding. So allow it now, but I also think, on behalf of my colleagues, that we should thank you for the work we have done. I would like to thank Mrs Schmuck for her contribution. It seems to me that you are very prepared for the material, which is a good feeling for me, and I would also like to respond to the fact that an amendment to the processing of products produced in your own economy has already been, I can say, almost completed. We've seen the problem you've raised, so I fully agree with you on that. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as the old farmers' family economy is concerned, the product produced can also be sold there. This was a recurring problem in the melons, and my colleague Pócs could say much more about it than he could do on a daily basis. Let me put one thought about food here, because in many cases, it is embezzled. In proportion to income, so relatively food in Europe has never been as cheap as it is now. By the way, European farmers, obviously including Hungarian farmers, deserve to be able to continuously develop in technology, otherwise they want to give them less money in the European Union and they are increasingly demanding of them. Let me respond to another suggestion by my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm, who, I think, did not understand the legislation correctly, or at least I would like to believe that the legislation is correct and he misunderstood. So the schmt will not be a form of enterprise under a civil code, it will not be like an fft. or the company, but it's gonna be one of those additional seals for a cvt., rt. or on the facade of a cooperative, given by the Chamber, if it meets the two conditions laid down in the legislation. Just because I have an S.F.T., and I ask for a stamp that the family agricultural company does not change its operating framework, it continues to be an S.F.R. in the company's legal sense. stays. I don't know, maybe it makes sense and maybe it's acceptable what we've put forward. However, I have listened very well to the pro-government contributions from my opposition and obviously from my fellow Member James and Pócs here after the lead speakerial round, because I feel that the work that has been put into this change of legislation now seems to be paying off, and that many years of discussion shows that we may not only be able to create a professional consensus on this issue, but also political consensus. So, for my part, I thank you both for your positive comments and for the suggestions of an improved nature. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-20-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if there's anyone else who'd like to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I now give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr. Sándor Farkas, who will obviously reflect on what has been said. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought, and I think I thought well with many of my fellow Members, that when we start talking about agricultural laws in Parliament today, I am going to put the debate a little bit behind the table, to discuss it, perhaps it was a more appropriate term for today's law, then there are often such broad emotions, there are serious debates, and at the end of the day, we tend to deviate from what is at all the essence of the law that has been tabled. Fortunately, this was not the case today and is not the case, and I am extremely pleased that we have been able to focus on the law that can lay the foundations for and improve the future of family farms. I would like to respond to some comments from some of your representatives. Of course, I thank Balázs Győrffy once again for his cooperation, his great work, his fantastic work, his perseverance, because it also required that this law be drafted, and we can talk about it here in Parliament today, and thank you for the professional comments and practical examples with which he added the substance of this law in his speech. [[18.20]] Of course, we want to provide a clearer legal background, and I think we all agree on that. However, I would like to note here how important it is to have a transparent financial accounting relationship with each producer group. This is important in a significant part because when we talk about competitiveness, development and support policy, the question of how to finance it clearly arises. The essence of the funding is the perception of banks to entrepreneurs, or the farmers or the farmer's economy, I have now said that they are entrepreneurs, and I am not sure that they are right. However, it is extremely important that a clear formula will be developed in this context, when they can practically open up to the financial world, and the banking world can also help this circle, whether in self-help, support or in credit or other arrangements, so that producers can carry out their investments and developments in a significant part. I think that this is also a very important thing, and we have talked about this for decades, that banks cannot take up this production circle. I think that this danger will go away now. Zoltán Magyar's better-looking fellow Member had a comment here, and I am going beyond that during the debate this morning, or in the speech before the agenda, but I thank him and Jobbik for also supporting this proposal, and he asked the question of making it more viable. I think that's a shy remark. We are bringing this law before this House so that the countryside can indeed be made more livable even more safely. I do not wish to be lost in the details of this, because then I would fall into the same mistake as when we open a dispute between a law and everything. The case of cooperatives is missing from the law. It's not a coincidence, it's not a cooperative law, let's stop for a second. It's the law of individuals, the law of families, it's in his name. Then why were we talking about a cooperative? I always stop here for a moment and deviate from my earlier statement. Cooperatives will really become cooperatives in Hungary when these ancient producers, these farmers, feel the lack of cooperation as a barrier to their development, and then the self-organizing cooperatives will be created, in which Europe, the Western Hemisphere, is 100 to 150 years ahead, because they have already learned that they cannot be so effective individually and in small. That is why it is important that this circle, which we call today a circle of farmers, or a family farm or enterprise, will be the moment when the Hungarian market, the international or the world market, and then those cooperatives will come. This may not be what you were thinking, my fellow Member, but I think we should talk about this form of cooperative then. There's always something missing from it, I wrote that down. If I were an opposition representative, I would say the same thing clearly, because that is the customary law in Parliament, that if something is good, then we can just twist it, stick the stick between the spokes, and pop it up. It is clear, therefore, that Jobbik's representative has also agreed in a significant way and has even clearly supported this law. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, on the part of KDNP, fell into the issue of generational change. Support for young farmers is, of course, essential. I believe that when we are talking about a generational change, this law gives us just one more opportunity, it does not completely solve the generational change, it frees up forces, frees up opportunities that will bring us closer to this issue. Of course, when we talk about a generation change, it's about two sides: an ageing generation and a generation who wants to take over. Now, here comes the question, whether you want to take over this type of activity, or rather, the farmer's child tells you that he has already found his calculation of life in another part of the country or the world, and he has seen the struggle, the bitter way in which many farmers and fellow farmers have lived and lived their lives, that he does not ask for it. And that is why it is important that I refer back to the idea of our fellow Member, Ágnes Vadai, that this is precisely the question of what kind of greyhound future we can offer, what are the opportunities with which we can truly change generations, but I would rather continue to provide continued, consistent work. This, of course, has something to do with what President James has said, such as digitalization, automation, robotics, environmentally friendly farming, safe food, all of which are concepts that give today's youth many opportunities, many challenges. And last but not least, vocational training: this has not been said today, but we need well-prepared professionals, and already here it has been linked to the provision of opportunities under the new vocational training law and for young generations. So it can't be solved overnight, unfortunately it may take a decade for this generation change, this rejuvenation to happen in agriculture, or perhaps even longer. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP, also supported this law, and it was more about how we can make rural life attractive. By creating modern opportunities. Of course, this requires more than just agriculture. For this purpose, it is also necessary to have the Hungarian village program, if I say only that, in which we can provide the same opportunities or nearly the same opportunities in a small settlement as in a medium or larger city with the right infrastructure conditions. These are the issues with which we have to look at this issue in a complex and global way, and if we look back now, the Hungarian legislation, the Hungarian government, has a number of points, makes laws, makes decisions that ensure a safe living in the countryside. Here, Ms Ágnes Vadai asked the question in connection with two paragraphs, but my colleague Balázs Győrffy practically replied, and I do not want to respond to that here. Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck mentioned a number of practical examples of the law, said several proposals, raised several possibilities and here my fellow Member responded to the possibility of selling. I think that the electrical administration, which has also been raised, I believe that this can be an open door in the coming period, just if we have ideas and suggestions on digitalisation that will help, of course, in this situation. To abolish the tax advance obligation of the original producer, if I remember correctly, perhaps something similar was mentioned, and that the decree to implement the Land Traffic Act was missing. These are critical remarks, but I do not think that we will be indebted to them either, but, of course, we are also looking forward to the amendments made by the LMP that could be adopted in this law, and we can also strengthen the law. Independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm gave her support to the law. A family-based economy, I think, was his main line of thought. We totally agree on that. Well, we're in this politically historically, so I'd say we're in serious blackouts. Now, I don't want to make a historical flashback, but we can see that the family farms stopped practically in 1946-47, and from then on they were significantly bled out. Now we want to do this roughly 70 years from now, or we want to reconfirm its original producers, as has already been published, over 60 years. There are two generations lost in this, and I'll only keep that in low note, who could have continued this. So I think that this issue is extremely important, and we have a lot to think about and talk about together. The question asked, the court of business, the agrarian chamber of recognition is clear. [[18.30]] President James also confirmed these thoughts, which this law also refers to, here are some thoughts about climate conditions, weather conditions, safe food production, monitoring. A proper response to these challenges is inevitable, and I believe that today's agricultural society can provide these answers. I do not want to deal with a very daily question right now, but I note that this year has been an extraordinary weather year, no matter what anyone says. After the early spring frosts, the relentless amount of summer rain after the spring drought, it was once again a dry period, and now last week another 100 millimeters of precipitation fell. To adapt to this, it is difficult for people with the best preparation, the best strength and expertise to do the right answer and take the right step, but I think that the grain will still be sown, the amount of corn or autumn crops that the country needs will be harvested, and we can prove that Covid here, Covid there, once again, the agricultural sector will be able to perform its activities in an outstanding manner, providing the expectation that we will play a major role in Hungary's safe food supply. I don't think I do, I know that there are even to some extent serious export opportunities available. We thank Mr Pócs for his supportive thoughts, and also Balázs Győrffy for his summary thoughts in the interests of the sector. I would just like to note here, finally, that I am extremely pleased, my fellow Members, not to say the praise, but rather to say that the opposition has supported our laws tabled here in the preparation of the Agricultural Ministry and the co-organisations almost without exception during the general debate. Thank you very much. I think that this is a very important step, that in this sector, they and you both see that these steps are needed, and we thank you for your support in advance, and we look forward to your amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-20-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on climate policy until closure. Government referral T/13263. The information provided by the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-20-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposed legislation is one of the biggest challenges of our time, namely climate change, as envisaged by the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. In short, the Climate Change Act and the 2012 CCXVII on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the Effort Sharing Decision. supplementing and amending law with a view to harmonisation. The proposal before this House also aims to simplify the rules of the two laws in the context of a comprehensive deregulation. The government's priority is to combat climate change and adapt to the effects of climate change, thus also placing a strong emphasis on the timely harmonisation of legislation in line with EU climate legislation. This is the primary objective of the proposal to ensure compliance with the new EU climate legislation applicable during the forthcoming fourth trading period of the EU greenhouse gas trading scheme from 2021 to 2030. Dear House of Representatives, The aim of the proposal is also to repeal the provisions on the so-called international flexibility mechanisms introduced by the Protocol on Climate Change by amending the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change adopted in 1997 due to the emptiness of its greenhouse gas emission reduction regime after 2012. The Doha Amendment, which intends to extend the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period until 2020, will enter into force only formally and for a single day due to delayed ratifications on 31 December 2021. The rules adopted in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol will be replaced by an international emission reduction scheme under the Paris Agreement adopted in December 2015, which is currently being developed, and therefore the retention of certain provisions on international flexibility mechanisms is not justified in the law. In addition to this deregulation, the proposal also proposes adding a new provision to the Climate Change Act by extending the legislative rules for adaptation to the effects of climate change. The amendment makes it the responsibility of the State to carry out the activities related to adaptation at the level of plans, strategies rather than legislation, and lists the interrelated and successive levels of adaptation to the effects of climate change. This shows that the Hungarian government is taking action against climate change not only in words, but also in action. Dear Parliament, The bill envisages the amendment of the greenhouse gas trading law primarily on the grounds of compliance with EU legislation adopted for the fourth trading period of the EU quota trading system. On the other hand, it contains changes of a legal nature to the elimination of the regulatory parallels contained in the greenhouse gas trading law and its implementing regulation, and repeals detailed rules which are not justified at the legal level and which require frequent changes due to the frequent changes in the underlying EU climate legislation. The proposal contains the following amendments on the basis of EU legislation: excluding flights from Switzerland from the EU quota trading scheme among the provisions governing the scope of the law; a new element of requests for the allocation of free greenhouse gas allowances; and an extension and re-regulation of the administrative procedures required for this purpose. It also includes simplifying the regulation of payment obligations for customers of the National Climate Protection Authority, i.e. installation operators and aircraft operators, in view of the changing Union legal provisions on the basis of which the fees are based, thereby reducing their administrative burden. According to the proposal, the supervisory fee to be paid by operators and keepers will be levied as from 2021, and as a payment obligation, the existing but new account keeping fee will remain. The proposal complements the greenhouse gas trading law under Article 10c of Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transitional free allocation of emission allowances for the modernisation of the energy sector, as laid down in Article 10d of Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. Article 2 of the EU Modernisation Fund also provides for the domestic use of its resources. [[18.40]] Finally, in line with the new so-called effort-sharing regulation of the European Union, the proposal also introduces domestic rules for effort sharing units, with which our country contributes to the achievement of annual greenhouse gas emission reductions that Member States will be obliged to implement in sectors outside the EU emissions trading system from 2021 to 2030. The Effort Sharing Regulation replaces the provisions of the previous Effort Sharing Decision 2013-2020 in order to enable the EU to comply with its commitments in the Paris Agreement. Hungary's current national target is to achieve a reduction of at least 7 per cent by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. Honourable Members, Hungary has been committed to climate protection, with ambitious action plans, a solid legislative framework and the timely fulfilment of the Hungarian government's legal harmonisation obligations in the area of climate protection. Dear House, To sum up, this bill, in addition to fulfilling the obligation to harmonise legislation, contributes to a more effective response to climate change, which is in the common interest of all of us. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr László Böröcz. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As you have heard in the State Secretary's Expo, the proposal before you contains amendments to two previous laws: on the one hand, the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on the participation of the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. amendment of law. The latter is essential for achieving the priority climate policy objectives. The most important element of the bill is to make domestic climate regulation simpler and more transparent, and to legislate the new provisions strengthen the legislative framework that also serves to adapt to the effects of climate change. Dear Parliament, I think it has become clear to everyone that the Hungarian Government aims to protect our environment and fight climate change. That has been the case, and it will continue to be the case in the future. Practically the proposal before us is another step in order to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. It is not just a commitment, it is also a firm action. Hungary has already achieved a significant reduction of 33 percent compared to 1990. Our country was among the first Member States of the European Union, where a realistic, ambitious, 40% emission reduction target was set at the statutory level by 2030. This can be said by very few Member States outside Hungary. A few weeks ago, the European Commission proposed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from EU countries. However, the 55 per cent greenhouse gas emissions target proposed by the Commission and the 60 per cent greenhouse gas emissions target proposed by the European Parliament do not apply to individual Member States, but to the European Union as a whole. There is a need for a common burden, since the target will only be achieved if the EU takes action together in the fight against climate change. Instead of empty lozunges and political statements, we need concrete goals and actions, which can be achieved at both domestic and EU levels, which is what the Hungarian government believes. The negotiations within the Union also confirm this. In terms of numbers, Hungary currently represents only 74 percent of our annual greenhouse gas emissions per capita. which is considered to be low even in relation to countries of similar size. The European Union accounts for only 1.5 percent of our country's total emissions. With this, Hungary is located in the middle of the EU Member States and the 20th smallest issuer compared to the developed countries. Hungary is one of the few countries in the world that has been able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by continuously increasing the performance of the economy. In 2018, with an increase in GDP of 5.1 percent, greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 0.9 percent. In 2019 there was a decrease of 0.3 per cent with an increase of 4.5 per cent. We are fighting, working to make decisions on an ambitious level in the EU based on a fair and proportionate commitment between Member States. The main aim is to avoid extra burdens for Hungarian families, while other European countries are underplaying climate change. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-140	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of Jobbik is Tibor Nunkovich, Congressman, he's next. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, What we are actually seeing is that we are talking about a binding ratification, which, in fact, has elements that I think are welcome. Obviously, here we hope that the reduction in bureaucracy will indeed take place. For my part, I am pleased that the system of ministerial approval will be excluded, since it has slowed down this system, efficiency. We will see how the new system of assessment will work in practice. I think that this will have to be left open, and if amendments need to be made, we will be able to do so as soon as possible, seeing practical experience. Here we have heard a lot from my fellow Member László Böröcz, these usual pro-government statements, how dedicated they are in the fight against climate change. It seems to me that this has been a rather fluctuating trend for you lately. A year and a half ago, we heard statements from Viktor Orbán saying that the opposition is a climateist and then, realizing that this really is a very important topic before the outbreak of the coronal virus, more and more people were employed both in Hungary and in the European Union, and they started to deal with it. It was then that their climate action plan, which, in view of the practice of the past years, I say that it was a step forward, could obviously have been developed here or set more serious goals, but it was a step up compared to the nothing before it and how the environmental protection in Hungary has been built over the past ten years, and how the institutional system of this has come to an end, and its legislative system, compared to that. Unfortunately, however, it should be noted that it is increasingly visible, which I have tried to draw your attention to in the past months, six months, year after year, that we should not make a family business out of the energy source of the future, solar energy. It is now becoming more and more noticeable that Fidesz companies have appeared, entrepreneurs close to Viktor Orbán, entrepreneurs who are not Hungarians, by the way, I am thinking of the Turkish businessman Adnan Polat, who obviously see a profitable business in this MEDAR system. Now we hear from farmers in Borsod County, and here we were talking about rural development, the possibility of farming or livestock farming in order to create solar parks. I know this is very important, but let's not sacrifice families on this altar. I think that there are many other places in Hungary where these can be implemented. [[18.50]] With regard to greenhouse gas emissions, I would also like to say to my fellow Member that, in order to show that since 1990, the change of regime, factories, the heavy industry, which has had a positive impact on people's lives and their salaries and lifestyles, have obviously not, since a lot of jobs have ceased, but otherwise, in terms of environmental protection or air pollution, this has been a step forward, but since then, and since 2013-14, this data has started to grow again. Obviously, more and more cars appear, can be included, or that less and less people may be using public transport, but regardless of the growing trend, and this is not due to the Fidesz government, and it is not due to him that this trend has been reduced until then, such was the economic environment, which could otherwise be caused by the last thirty years. To sum up, I cannot yet say that we will support this proposal. We would like to add some minor amendments and hope that they will be heard; in the light of that, I will be able to say that we support or do not support the proposal. Thank you.
u2020-10-20-142	Thank you very much. Instead of Mrs Gurmai Zita, Mr András Aradszki, I apologise to the Member, the lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-20-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is so much not worth talking about about the bill before us, its content itself, even because there is a fundamentally technical amendment before us, which, on the one hand, amends the 2007 LX on the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Act CCXVII of 2012 on trade in greenhouse gases and the Community's trade system. There are reasons for this technical amendment for harmonising legislation and for changing the international legal environment, and there is also a need to make domestic legislation more transparent, simplify regulation, and to achieve deregulation objectives. I have to say, without going into the details, that, as the Hungarian Government has said in the expoze, when it comes to legislation on climate policy, it has always carried out the tasks of harmonisation at a firm and appropriate time, in accordance with EU and international rules, which also shows that a prepared team of professionals has dealt with these issues, the overall picture of which shows that it has been successful so far, because Hungary has been able to achieve the objectives in the international environment on the one hand, and that it has been able to create the instruments that fit into it in time and in sufficient efficiency, to develop the necessary systems, such as the EU ETS system. The reason for this amendment is, for example, IV from 2021 to 2030. In order to comply with the new EU climate legislation applicable during the trading period, and in addition to the deregulation and harmonisation environment, to make domestic legislation transparent, the elimination of these parallel laws and regulations at the level of the government regulation was exceptionally justified from a legal point of view, it repeals provisions containing empty concepts and, as I said earlier, strengthens the legislative framework for adaptation to the effects of climate change. What can be seen from the underlying content of the bill before us, namely that this bill will also serve the great goal of the European Union, the rest of the world, agreed in 2015 under the auspices of the United Nations, namely that the necessary measures and commitments for climate protection have been taken by the Member States. In this context, again, it should be stressed that Hungary has participated in the Paris Climate Convention, made contributions which have meant commitments at EU level, which were unanimously concluded at the time by the Energy Council and presented in Paris. This indicated that the European Union is in a very ambitious way for climate protection, and I have to say that it was strange for us in that atmosphere that ambitious targets were not always accepted, but the fundamental reason for this was that the European Union's greenhouse gas emissions in the world are marginal... not to say that it is marginal, but contributes much less than, say, large emitters, the United States, China, India, Brazil, Australia, and could be classified further. However, it can be said that the Hungarian Government has already declared itself to the European goals, and has been actively involved in the adoption and implementation of ambitious European plans. If we look at the development of Paris in 2015, this convention was in 2015, it is now 2020 and it has to be said that we are not doing well at global level in relation to climate protection. The forecasts show that the commitment to climate change, namely that the increase in average temperature by 2050 will not exceed one and a half percent of the temperature before the industrial revolution, can be seen in comparison with the fact that, on the one hand, there has been no progress at the Madrid conference in recent years, even though those large issuers were reluctant to increase their level of ambition adopted in Paris, the European Union and Hungary have also been actively involved in increasing these levels. We are therefore in 2020 and what can be said is that, if we look at the latest figures of the OECD Energy Agency, we can see that at the moment, greenhouse gas emissions at global level are not only decreasing but are in a growth stage. Some experts say that this is of a temporary nature, of course, a natural consequence of the transformation, and I very much hope that it will be, because it is in our common interest to find solutions to climate change, and in this we need a common ambitious goal. As my previous colleague mentioned, Hungary is at the forefront of regulating it at the legislative level by XLIV 2020. by law, what a realistic ambitious target has been set for greenhouse emissions itself, which says that it requires or targets a 40% reduction in emissions by 2030, which is one of the first in the Union. It can be seen that there is also a debate within the EU between the institutions and the Member States, by the institutions I mean the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States, there are different ideas. It is certain that the 50-55 per cent target presented by the European Commission is an increased level of ambition compared to 2030, which also shows that the European Union is committed to climate protection, and Hungary can make a significant contribution to the future EU target with this 40 per cent emission reduction requirement set by the Act, even because Hungary's share of emissions in the European Union is not very significant. [[19.00]] And it should also be added that Hungary is one of the exceptional countries where economic growth has taken place over the past 15-20 years, not only has emissions increased, but has decreased. Very few countries can say that about themselves. This has not been achieved in serious EU countries either, but there are countries where this kind of duality has been achieved very well, that the economy has grown, but the level of emissions has decreased. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] I think that, with these aspects and in such a difficult situation, the 2020 XLIV. The adoption of a law shows the government's commitment, as it showed in 2015 our commitment to climate protection, and also shows that it is worthwhile and justified for Hungarian economic operators to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve their participation in economic growth without increasing greenhouse gas emissions. The Hungarian plans are also sufficiently ambitious, even from the point of view of how we can maintain this direction, that emissions are falling, but the economy is growing. Changes in transport will play a major role in this, with the government supporting and strengthening the growth of electric vehicles, making Hungary a viable country, one of the best-living countries, taking into account climate protection aspects in the near future. Knowing the expertise of the portfolio, knowing that implementation of legislation is of sufficient quality on the basis of EU considerations, and knowing the government's commitment, which was confirmed by Parliament in XLIV 2020. by law, we will support the adoption of this proposal on the part of KDNP. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-144	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-20-145	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr President, to congratulate you on your vice-presidentship. This is the first time I've spoken to you during your presidency. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In the vast majority of the bill before us, it contains technical amendments. As a constructive opposition, the MSZP does not, of course, oppose the legislative harmonisation of the Hungarian Parliament, the elimination of the duplication of laws and regulations and the simplification of the legal environment. However, we cannot say yes to this law. The reason for our abstaining is formal and substantive. We cannot support the replacement of laws by regulation. This cannot be an option for a democratic party. And we can't say yes either, either, that the bill specifically highlighted flights that the head of state and government and the ministers would use in their official voyages. I think you've flown enough of taxpayers' money, so there's no need for any further discounts. In particular, you have not given any reason for these discounts. By the way, we are pleased to see that Fidesz has begun to adapt slowly but slowly to the crisis, because not so long ago, the climate crisis has been described as hysterical by you and the European Commission's climate targets are absurd. So far, you have hindered, wherever possible, the efforts adopted throughout the European Union to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. However, it seems that they are now inclined to reach this goal, and of course, it is also likely that EU support for climate protection can be increased. But once we're on this road, I suggest we look a little further, because the climate crisis is a much bigger problem than what you have accepted from it. What is happening in the world today? With the temperature rising, Arctic ice caps began to melt, sea levels rising, and billions of people's homes could be flooded. Extreme weather events are all becoming more frequent. Droughts, huge rains, storms, and hurricanes make our land a more dangerous place. Water scarcity in some areas is becoming permanent and therefore fewer food can be grown. Diseases that were previously unknown in those areas are emerging. As a result, the masses of people leave their homes unlivable and begin to migrate to a place where living conditions are better. If for no other reason, it would be worth considering more effective representation of climate protection, provided that stopping migration is a real goal for you and not just one of the words of a political campaign. It is also in Hungary's fundamental interest to take the lead in climate protection, because our country and the Carpathian Basin in general are among the threatened areas that are more seriously affected by climate change. The temperature here is already rising above the world average. We have to expect prolonged hot periods, hot flushes and less precipitation. It's not an empty alarm. In Hungary winter is getting milder and droughts are increasing. Several times, the lowest water level ever measured on the entire domestic section of the Danube has fallen. Have you ever asked yourself what will happen to our children, our grandchildren, if the weather changes at this rate? What if we're forced to live in 40 or 50 degrees of heat for four to five months? Where do we get water so we can at least drink and keep some agriculture? That's what climate protection is all about. It is about finding a solution to this crisis. And not in decades, but immediately. The destruction and exploitation of Earth's natural resources are inherent in capitalism and its downside. Therefore, environmental protection also means the fight against exploitation, the biases of capitalism. You like to deflect this as if environmental protection was a barrier to development, although that is not true. It is not the need to stop development, but to make the operation of capitalism environmentally friendly. Everything must not be subordinated to the profit interests of multinational companies and capital. We need to rethink waste management, transport and industrial policy, simply because we don't have another planet. And, yes, we also need to change the public's perspective. But we need to know that this can only be effective if we change people's options. Today, poorer people are becoming more and more accustomed to coal and wood fires that have caused smog. That can only be changed with public help. We therefore need to tackle the housing crisis and the issue of improving air cleanliness in cities at the same time. This is why the MSZP has launched a program that combines heating and building modernisation and can be used to achieve a change of heating. Our programme is based on concrete measures, and I speak not only as much as when Viktor Orbán said that Hungary is a climate champion, which he says is recognised by Brussels. The Prime Minister was probably able to look at Eurostat statistics the other way, because it says that Hungary is at the top-of-the-line among EU states in the production of electricity from renewable sources. Our climate policy is based on sustainable development. We say that we must spare, protect our waters, air, soil and habitats. Long-term economic growth can only be sustained if we adapt to and reduce climate change. To this end, we must undertake to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement before the deadlines, thereby helping Europe's energy production to be carbon-free by 2050. We only support improvements that serve the interests of the present without damaging the future. [[19.10]] We support the spread of environmentally friendly technologies. Energy production based on renewable energy sources should receive maximum support. The rules that make the use of wind energy impossible and the tax that increases the use of solar energy should be abolished. We propose that the state invest in decarbonisation and support companies that produce high-quality products with high-quality environmentally friendly technology. We propose taxing companies that emit harmful substances. It is not necessary to cut down trees and concrete, as you have done so far, but to reduce urban air pollution, it is necessary to increase the size of green surfaces. The development of transport should be shifted towards fixed-track transport. Where this is not possible, the share of electric vehicles should be increased by a bus exchange programme and could be replaced this time. The energy modernisation of the homes of Hungarian families must be supported, which also reduces household overhead costs. To this end, a fund should be established to provide the necessary resources for renovations. However, such modernisation significantly reduces heating costs by about 20-25 percent and the cost of heating by another 20-25 percent after the return. This would save households between 40 and 50 per cent of energy. We support the European Green Agreement on improving the well-being of people and protecting our planet for future generations. Making Europe climate neutral and protecting our natural environment is not only a possible option, but the only way to make our future viable. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-20-146	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As a green politician, I always welcome and welcome the fact that the issue of climate change is on the agenda here in Parliament, because we know that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and there is quite a problem. I think you know very well that you are familiar with the data that researchers say that the rate of temperature increase in the Carpathian Basin is 30-40 percent faster than we think about in the equator's area, what the consequences will be. This may also mean that the annual temperature in Hungary may rise by up to 3.5-4.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century compared to 1971-2000. I don't think it's too much when we say we're in the 24th hour. I recommend you all to watch the Attenborough movie on Netflix. You have to see how quickly changes happen. So here speed is not happening at an even pace, but exponentially, and it is not possible to assess exactly how big problems will be in ten years' time, in twenty years' time, and how young people today will live and live. It was no accident that the IPCC now spoke in its report two years ago that we have ten years left to do something meaningful, to make fundamental changes in the structure of the economy, in our economy, and that radical steps must be taken to reduce emissions in this context, and that, if we do not act urgently, we will not be able to avoid the disastrous effects of climate change. I have to say with a few sentences that we're not exactly climate champions. So the government, politicians, government politicians like to say that Hungary is a climate champion, what climate ambitious targets we set with this 40 percent. No, we are not climate champions, and Hungary, we see it, for example, from the evaluation of the Commission of the European Union, is somewhere in the end here. We have to admit that this 40 percent reduction, CO2 reduction, is not enough. Otherwise, this has already been achieved once by the end of 2013, since then we have been on the growth path, and the benefits that we have already achieved by the end of 2013 are constantly decreasing. We know that Ursula von der Leyen has set a 55 per cent emission reduction target for the European Union, but on the other hand, the European Parliament has already adopted a 60 per cent reduction, while we know that scientists are now talking about achieving a 65 per cent CO2 reduction if we really want to keep the temperature rise within 1.5 degrees Celsius. We hope that in December, the Council of the European Union will not block the government and will not veto at least 55 percent of this CO2 emissions. By the way, if we look at Hungary, we also see that the use of renewable energy sources is still at a low level, far below the more ambitious objectives of the European Union. We have often said that wind energy is not much liked by the Hungarian government, it almost means that it has been banned. Moreover, in terms of solar energy, it is not really the right way to go, either, if you look at the fact that it did not primarily promote solar power plants and solar panels on top of the family houses, but instead takes valuable green surfaces. In fact, recent news has been that even agricultural land has been taken from one of the farmers and is being built there, but now, from this point of view, how this happened is a matter of detail. But it is certain that solar energy should not be installed on these green areas, on green surfaces, but rather on these built-in or brownfield areas. Moreover, we do not see that real thinking on the part of the government on the part of the building insulation programme has started, and we continue to see that personal transport is preferred to the forms of public transport. We do not see it, so we do not see in the first climate change action plan what concrete adaptation steps are with deadlines, guaranteed with resources, even though it is now ending at the end of this year. The question is, where will he be and how will the sequel proceed? I think we agree that there is a great deal to do, but let us also look at the extent and how the bill before us will help the climate objectives. Most of the package contains harmonisation and simplification elements. During simplifications, the regulation of several elements of the emissions trading system will be transferred from the law to the regulation on implementation or parallel entries will cease. We support these, because, for example, details of the content of the application for an issue permit are indeed not at the level of law and regulations can be adapted more easily and quickly to the rapidly changing EU legal environment. Of course, we expect the government not to abuse this opportunity and to ensure appropriate professional consultation and information. We also consider it a good course to replace the supervisory fee by the renewed and emission-proportional account management fee. With the exception of one, we agree with the harmonisation amendments, because we do not understand why flights from Switzerland are excluded from the emissions trading system. LMP cannot accept any benefits granted to aviation, it already receives sheltered support from the sector for tax incentives, while we know that this is the most polluting mode of transport. It is therefore necessary to work on reducing flight needs and the railway alternative. But I would also like to get to what we consider to be one of the most critical points in the bill, which, by the way, gives us a little bit of the government's poverty certificate, the fact that they've been talking about something, but they haven't done anything for it, and that's next. The Government is LX 2007 on the implementation framework of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. An additional proposal to amend the Act was made to create a comprehensive set of measures aimed at preventing, reducing, limiting the spread of adverse effects of climate change, restoring environmental balance and exploiting the benefits of climate change. I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that many documents have already been produced on the necessary steps to adapt, perhaps the Secretary of State remembers the VAHAVA programme carried by Professor Láng at the time, and very enthusiastically urged, as the government's national climate change strategy and other government strategies have also formulated, but the message has just fallen on deaf ears. [[19.20]] That is why it is an indication to us that not only opposition parties, but also the largest government ministry, draw attention to this, namely adaptation tasks. In view of the fact that LMP has always stressed the importance of this issue in agreement with the European Green Parties, we did not hesitate to present an amending proposal. With our professionally sound legislative amendment proposal, we are trying to correct the fact that I should say that there are not many actions that have been taken during their governance against the public interest, because the price of bad governance must not be paid to the Hungarian population. So, overall, we see that there are several small positive elements in the bill, but because of inaccurate adaptation tasks and benefits to Swiss air services, the LMP fraction is still thinking about how to deal with the support of this bill. Obviously, the amendment will be tabled, and if it is welcomed positively, we will obviously strongly consider that we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-148	Thank you, Congresswoman. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to László Hajdu, a representative of DK. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-149	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, In fact, I will comment on behalf of DK or on behalf of its faction, because I would not have been the rapporteur, but, in the end, as a member of the committee, this fell on me as a last-minute decision. T/13263. In this 19-page legislative proposal on 25 paragraphs, which contains an EU agenda and legislative harmonisation, we believe that, by joining the President before me, we believe that there is indeed a positive change. Although I must add that it is not certain that it is a positive change, that this trade will be excluded from parliamentary control, and it will be government, it can be said that this will be dealt with by regulation in the future. I would like to note that this Kyoto Protocol, which we are starting from, and which is under discussion and we are making an amendment, has come quite moaningly from previous governments, since it was quite a long time ago when this Protocol was adopted or published. After all, in Hungary, the Parliament has accepted this ratification in the first place, with a delay of ten years, and it has been accelerated as our membership of the European Union is approaching, with the adoption of the law and, in many cases, since then, it has been amended. It's really hard to find a way around climate targets, and it's especially hard to figure out what's going on in living practice, say, with regard to climate protection. It is very difficult to put it together, because it is a complex activity that affects almost all sectors, and this complexity, I think, will be affected by this EU legislative harmonisation proposal. My second point is that it will be very difficult to ensure climate targets and sustainability in the context of a changed institutional system such as the environment and the whole climate issue. With the end of the sector itself in 2014, the Ministry of the Environment and the decentralized organisations in the counties have ceased, so the administrative authorities that have employed professionals with good practice and have lost most of them, I do not feel that this can only be managed in a professional, administrative and organisational sense in a single sector or a department or a State Secretary. I think that, in the previous period, agriculture had it, environmental protection, all sectors had it, including the health sector, this does not seem to be a guarantee. I feel that this is environmental protection and nature protection, as well as sectors such as drinking water protection, but we can also take territorial development issues, all of which do not show this complexity. In words and programs, we feel that we are dreaming about something, that we want to do something, but even the climate strategy that we recently adopted is just a document, because environmental issues or climate issues are clearly reflected here and there in the budget. An example is the 2021 budget, which was already adopted in June. The amendments tabled, which were specifically discussed, say, in the Committee on Sustainable Development, were all proposals for a so-called climate change change change, and could not accept any of them. About 60 amendments were a serious issue. There were some that would have been penny, only the principle would have been yes, and it was not even possible to say yes. It is also true that all of these were amendments by opposition representatives. We are not preparing to submit an amendment to this proposal. We are discussing an EU item and we are talking about harmonisation. We do not have a problem with the recommendation of the Union, but with the content that is missing from this proposal. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-150	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only respond in a few sentences to one thing, first of all, that the government would not support the creation of solar panels for residential use. It can be read that there will be an application for this for the expansion of the solar park of family houses, and there will be 30-40 percent support for them. I would just like to point out to Mr Nunkovich that I understand that, of course, it is possible to magicate with numbers, but the reality is that greenhouse gas emissions in Hungary decreased by 0.9 per cent in 2018 and 0.3 per cent in 2019, despite the fact that there was an economic growth of 5% and 4.5 per cent, which, by the way, thins its pair in such a combination throughout the developed world. So it can be said that the government's policy is wrong, it is possible to refer to the economic structure changes that occurred in the '90s, which resulted in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which is basically true, but to say that the government would not do everything to achieve environmental protection and climate policy objectives, in the context of not reducing the incomes of Hungarian families and imposing an extra burden on Hungarian families, while the other Member States of the European Union are not in many cases around the bend. I can't respond to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai because, although her speech wasn't too braked, and according to László Kovács, she is the strong, characterful man of the MSZP, but since she left, the next time. Thank you.
u2020-10-20-152	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. [[19.30]] I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Peter Kaderjak. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-153	Thank you very much. In fact, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the governing party for their support for the proposal, their support for the bill, and I would just like to respond to a few points of suggestion and criticism. I am pleased that on Jobbik's part, Mr Tibor Nunkovics said at least unsurely; the question remains that Jobbik might support this proposal. I would be happy, of course, if this were to happen, because, in fact, the legislative proposal sets out the objective of simplifying the regulation in this area, harmonising our laws and regulations with European rules; and the truly well-functioning emission trading system, which has been covering just over one third of domestic emissions for years, harmonizing its operating environment with the functioning of the European market for the new trading period starting from the beginning of next year. So I think that these goals are actually aimed at ensuring at an institutional level that Hungary and its installations under the ETS can continue to participate in Europe's emission trading system in a harmonised way, which is a very important instrument in fact because the ETS is the most harmonised climate policy instrument for Europe at European level. This is the sector where, if you like, most of the so-called greenhouse gas emissions are carbon dioxide, and there is a single European price for that, a price signal, we know how much it costs to deliver such a unit. We can monitor this, and this is a very, very important price signal for tens of thousands of installations that decide every day whether or not to start an emission reduction project. So this is one of the most important institutions of climate protection at European level. And today, there is a debate on the fact that, precisely in relation to the possibly increased 2030 targets, it is precisely through the extension of emissions trading that we could be closer to the targets. For example, on the Commission's part, it is currently proposed to extend the scope of the ETS to residential buildings and transport. We are protesting for the time being because we believe that the population should not be directly burdened with this, but there is certainly a debate about ensuring that this institution, which we are actually setting up from next year, is actually functioning. So I'm confident that you may be able to convince me in this regard. With regard to the METAR tender and solar matters, much has been said about what I would like to respond to. One of them is indeed a question of residential solar programmes. Let us not forget that today in Hungary the capacity of the so-called household-sized small power plants installed on the roof is close to 500 megawatts. This is much bigger than a Paks nuclear block. So it is difficult to say that there is no progress in this area, and indeed the number of these facilities has increased exponentially over the last two or three years, but it does not have to be measured very much, because if you go anywhere on the street, you can see this. This is what we will indeed do, as Mr Böröcz has said, and then, even now, add a programme to those for whom the current aid scheme, which is a sluggish settlement, does not make these equipment, these investments, very much available. So we're going to move forward in this area. As far as space is concerned, we estimate that it takes about 2 hectares of land to install a megawatt of solar cells, so if we look at our 2030 targets, by 2030, we will need 12,000 hectares for the installation of 6 thousand megawatt solar power plants. At present, it would be an illusion to think that this can only be solved with roof-mounted equipment, so we support solar development in all kinds of ways. The METAR tender, which has been called, is aid schemes that receive competitive offers. Two days ago, exactly on the 15th, the second such tender round was submitted, and according to preliminary information, an offer of around 200 has been received, who would like to install such equipment. There's a lot of interest. What I would just like to say is that when we talk about whose relatives are participating in these tenders, look at the numbers, so everyone's relatives are getting involved in these tenders, they're so popular. We are in Hungary, we are initiated by Hungarian people, thank God, most of these projects, so it is a very large number of entrepreneurs, and it is also a Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur who participates in these tenders. So that's all I wanted to say. What is perhaps worth commenting on is that, in relation to the institutional system of environmental protection or climate policy, Mr Hajdu said that this institutional system was essentially abolished. I am very sorry that DK cannot support the various climate policy initiatives of the government or the law, together with the 2050 objective, and now, in fact, a technical bill, I think, drawn up for specific reasons of practicality. I would definitely like to correct the fact that the institutional system of climate policy and environmental policy exists in Hungary and is well. I often tell you, I saw it when there was a separate environmental wallet in Hungary that... [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Well done!]] It may have been nice, but it didn't work. So he was trying outside to get involved in the affairs of the other big wallets and the Ministry of the Great Contaminant. A lot of times, he bounced off these interests. On the other hand, today we must develop an integrated energy and climate policy together with the largest pollutants. When we are doing climate policy, we need to work together with the largest VIP pollutants, the energy sector, the transport sector and their state ministers to put together a strategy in which the interests of climate protection, energy security and economic development can be shared. This is a possible task, and it is much more effective than if these appear separately. I don't appreciate it, but I'd also like to protect the institutional system of nature conservation here instead of my secretary-in-chief. You claim that this institutional system is broken down, whereas the number of employees and employees of national parks has doubled over the last ten years, and that the budget of national parks is much more significant than before, just to mention one of the sectors concerned, which, by the way, we regard as particularly important by the government. So thank you very much for the supporting contributions, the decisively supportive contributions; in fact, in many cases, if you come from the opposition side, I feel support for this, too, and if only in part, but in support comments, and I trust that Parliament will eventually support this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[19.40]]
u2020-10-20-154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear House, It follows from the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the 2007 CVI on State-owned assets. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/13260. The information provided by the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national assets, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-20-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for sticking to the last item on the agenda. As a matter of fact, it's not that late, but it's getting dark soon. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the amendment of the State-owned property law is to ensure the free transfer of state-owned property to the Egri county and the Carpathian Basin National School of Arts Foundation, thereby facilitating the performance of the public education, education and cultural tasks of these institutions. The property in question is not necessary for the performance of any other public function and may be transferred free of charge on the basis of a request by the data subjects. The free ownership of the property is necessary in order to carry out the public education, education and belief tasks of the county and to facilitate the cultural heritage conservation of the foundation. Dear House, On the one hand, the amendment of the Law on State Property provides for the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. defining its tasks with regard to the single property register and amending the current legislation in the context of the related reporting of shareholders' rights. The aim of the new provision is to establish basic rules for a unified, integrated public register of assets and to facilitate the effective functioning of the new processes for reporting. Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt., the most important data of the property register that has been uploaded as a result of the data provision of the owner's rights are continuously updated. can be accessed on the renewable surface of the National Repository portal. The provisions of the bill to amend the State Property Act propose the establishment of a regulation relating to the legal background of the so-called electronic rental bidding system established under the KÖFOP scheme and MNV Zrt. to operate by the European Parliament. The amendment of the law thus creates an opportunity for MNV Zrt. leases of direct-run real estate subject to the exercise of ownership rights following an electronic lease bid. The new system opens the way for the conclusion of lease contracts for the use of state property by public tendering; as is known, this was only possible in the case of property so far. By clarifying certain details of the legislative changes to reform the asset management model of central budgetary bodies introduced in the summer of 2020, cost-saving, efficient asset management can be ensured by the organisations to be involved in investment tasks. The purpose of the bill before you is to extend the rules on sales to non-waste materials in relation to organisations involved in the performance of operational tasks, and to ensure a credible property register in the preparation and implementation of investments in public property for housing and recreational purposes. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the adoption of the bill will increase the efficiency of the public service. By clarifying the rules applied by ownership practitioners, effective asset management can be ensured, while by developing the national inventory we can receive up-to-date information on the development of state assets. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that, in addition to considering what has been said, T/13260. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intentions set out in the bill. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-10-20-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I now give the floor to Mrs Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the State Audit Office. You have the floor, Madam Vice President.
u2020-10-20-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The State Court of Auditors shall monitor annually the activities relating to the exercise of ownership rights over state assets as provided for in the State Property Act. According to the Fundamental Law, the aim of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, to meet common needs, to safeguard natural resources and to take account of the needs of future generations. The articles of the Fundamental Law shall not apply without a complete, uniform and accurate record of the state's assets. Deficiencies in the register of property also pose a risk to the adequacy of the management of public assets and to the application of the principles set out in the Fundamental Law. The property register is a fundamental condition for the management of assets and can therefore mean the adequacy of the register if it supports asset management and the achievement of its objectives. The legislative proposal now on the agenda will lead to progress in this area, especially because, as I mentioned earlier, the Court of Auditors has repeatedly stated in its annual audits that, despite the improvement in the register of assets, it was characterised by a regular lack of regularity. It's worth looking back ten years in time. At the time, the State Audit Office concluded in 2010 and 2011 that MNV Zrt. could not keep the records of the property entrusted to him, because the relevant legislation did not impose any obligation to report to the owners, and in 2011 the SAO concluded that neither MNV Zrt. nor the National Land Fund, as other shareholder rights practitioners, could fully determine the scope of the property subject to its ownership rights on the basis of its records. MNV Zrt. Although it initiated a collection of data for 2012 to the owners, this still did not result in a reliable, credible property register. For the first time in 2014, the legislator established the necessary legal bases for the single register of assets at the level of a regulation, which required the provision of data for all practitioners of ownership rights. On the basis of the audit experience, the Court also carried out an analysis of the subject, in the context of its advisory function, on the title "Analysis of the state's state's up-to-date and proper records. For this bill, we have prepared a professional background document, which is available in our electronic system as a background material for the text, and the link to the analysis can be found in this leaflet. The current amendment of the property law will, on the one hand, bring to a legal level certain rules on the registration of state assets currently laid down at the level of a regulation and, on the other hand, lay down the necessary legal rules for the management of a single State property register, which is built up from the data reporting of owners' rights. This represents progress at regulatory level towards a complete, uniform and accurate record of state assets, as the new regulation aims to ensure transparency and traceability of asset management. [[19.50]] In addition, I think it is important to point out that the regulation also combines responsibility for individual data reporting with the requirement for the identification of data. It is important to point out that the proposal aims to create MNV Zrt. a list of holders of ownership rights maintained by the holder, in which all practitioners of ownership rights are required to register. This also serves the purpose of the unity of the stock register. Dear House, It is appropriate for me to make a specific point in the proposal. According to the provisions of Section 4 of the Act, the holder may establish a relationship for the use of immovable property for the purpose of public accommodation by a unilateral declaration of rights. This legal institution is not new, as MNV Zrt. as defined in the law establishing the budget for 2021. establish a legal relationship for the use of immovable property for the purposes of public housing by a unilateral declaration to place budgetary bodies under the government's direction and supervision. The establishment of a legal relationship by a unilateral declaration will ensure more effective enforcement of the principle of responsible management of national assets compared to the contractual legal form necessary for the establishment of the right to property management. During the audits of the State Court of Auditors, a number of cases have been identified in recent years that an institution uses national assets without a contract of asset management or recovery, such as the trust contract has not been concluded or concluded with it, but the contract has ceased to exist, but the national assets are still used by the institution and are therefore booked. In other cases, the data subjects, the owner-rights practitioner and trustee have concluded a property management contract but have failed to ensure that the asset management contract is amended in line with legislative changes or that the current contract does not comply with the content requirements laid down in the legislation. The current amendment reflects this exploitation method among the general provisions on farming. This is an important step forward in the implementation of the principle of responsible management of national assets contained in the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-20-158	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, summarized very briefly the essential parts of the proposal, which in fact consists of two main parts. In one part, the proposal provides for the free ownership of three properties and the other part contains the additional parts relating to the property law. The first part, on the basis of the proposal, is the transfer of immovable property and movable property to the Egri County of Egri, taking into account the 2011 CXCVI on national assets, which is state-owned but no longer necessary for the performance of other tasks to be carried out by the State in order to support the exercise of the assumed State's task. Law and Act CVI of 2007 on State Property. Act on the rules governing the free transfer of state assets. With regard to the property and movable property contained in the bill, the free transfer shall be made on the basis of the application of the Egri Diocese. Based on the bill, the Egri Archdiocese is situated in the area of Sárospatak 253/4. acquires the property ownership rights of the school at 3950 Sárospatak, Bartók Béla utca 2 in kind, and property ownership of the property and the property necessary for the performance of the public service performed in order to perform its educational, educational and religious tasks more effectively. The Egri Archdiocese, the inner area of Sárospatak 253/4. the asset management contract of the current trustee of a local estate is terminated by the legal provision on the transfer of ownership. The waiver of the obligation to recover will take place subject to the general government rules on the treatment of claims that the State's claim can be waived only in cases and in ways laid down by law. The fulfilment of the obligation to recover would be a disproportionate burden for the county of Egri, which completely restored the school on the property proposed. He did everything he could to increase the value of the State assets entrusted to him as a responsible trustee, but despite his involvement in the performance of the public service mission, the Vtv. In order to ensure the continued functioning of the Egri Archdiocese, it is not possible to exempt Egri from the obligation to recover from the asset management contract, but to ensure the continued operation of the Egri Archdiocese, which is involved in the provision of public tasks, it is appropriate to waive the obligation to recover. In order to facilitate educational, educational and higher education tasks undertaken by the organisation involved in the other asset transfer, the Carpathian National School of Arts Foundation and the Foundation, Venice 1381/3. the number of places and the number of Székesfehérvár 610/9. The free ownership of the local property number will be granted to the Carpathian Basin National School of Arts Foundation. The transfer is subject to full acceptance by the Foundation of the obligations imposed on the property. The second part of the bill is the 2007 CVI. It contains an amendment to the Act and I am pleased that the State Audit Office has also given its opinion on this. Let us recall, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the context of the discharge law, the State Audit Office has always said and called our attention to the lack of an inventory of assets, and this House has been failing for a very long time. I believe that with this amendment of legislation, we can meet this deficit, and we can fill the gaps in this regard. In fact, I would like to highlight two things. One is that there will be a system of records that will ensure full publicity for everyone. Electronically accessible by anyone, in Hungarian: all property owned by the state and property elements become public. The other thing is that the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. has successfully operated an electronic auction system for many years, under which the sale of designated properties is made, and this is once again fully publicised. In Hungarian, anyone, every Hungarian organization, every Hungarian citizen can participate in these auctions, get to know all the details, and the decisions relating to this are completely transparent and public. [[20.00]] In the same way, a similar electronic interface and system will be created for those properties, this is the rental system, and I am pleased that this part can be fully publicised, and everyone is free to bid on the acquisition of the rental rights of designated properties. Dear Parliament, I think this is a very important step forward and I ask with respect that you support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-20-160	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, When we talk about state wealth, we will obviously stick to the bill, and then I will address in part of my speech a question that was not answered at the ministerial hearing, and at the committee meeting we did not know what the fate of the camping in Balaton would be. So I would like to ask you a specific question, too, because I think it is also closely linked to this bill, which, by the way, wants to give property to two organizations with free ownership: the property of the school on Sárospatak, and the movable property in it, will be delivered to the Archdiocese of Egri with two properties, in Venice and Székesfehérvár, as well as to the National School of Arts in the Carpathian Basin. Of course, these will serve goals that will be suitable and good for Hungarian people, cultural and educational goals, and other religious activities in these properties. So I think, in particular, that the Egri county is currently a trustee of this property, so there is nothing wrong with that, and, of course, the Jobbik faction can support this part of this bill. Another important part of the bill is the question of the national inventory. We are very pleased that there will be a system that shows all the assets belonging to the Hungarian State in a uniform and transparent manner. This will be a well-earned system, at least we hope, and we hope that all the data will indeed be indicated in this inventory, so that citizens will know how much money the Hungarian state has. So it is very right that, in a single and integrated system, these assets will be searchable, searchable, and so that everyone can really have the right information. And then an important pass of the bill is also the currently only ownership negotiations, the extension of the acquisition of ownership by the bid to practically the lease. This is also an important and forward-looking step, because it is really a transparent system for getting into these bids, and it is really the only way to get the lease to the tenants. So I think that this will also be a step forward, and I am very pleased that the Vice-President of the State Audit Office has confirmed this, that the cleanliness of competition will be made public, so that everyone can really achieve it if they want to maintain a lease in such a property. And if it's a bid and if it's Balaton, then I'd like to go there, which is actually my main question: tomorrow, the deadline will expire until the camping in Balatonszemes and Balatonboglár can be applied for with a bid. I would like to ask you to find that the starting price of the camp in Balatonboglár is around 60,000 forints per square meter, and the camping in Balatonboglár appeared with a starting price of one billion forints, as in Balatonboglár, even though we know that the location of the two settlements and the campsites is not the same. I am extremely concerned that this has been auctioned at such a low price. I would like to know the opinion of Mr Secretary of State, if we have not already learned from the Minister's opinion that, when you are responsible for managing national wealth, why do you not pay more attention to preserving these assets for people, because there are now fewer and fewer free green surfaces on the shore of Lake Balaton and free properties that could be opened up to the public and available to everyone on Lake Balaton. As we see now, these two campsites will find owners, we know who they're going to be, we know what they're going to be built there, we're going to fight it. I trust that the Secretary of State will answer this question: do you agree that the Balaton will be sold out? Thank you very much.
u2020-10-20-162	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-20-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, the substance of the proposal has already been presented by both Secretary General Fónagy and my fellow Member Hadházy, so perhaps they will allow me to take a short step back and look at the Fundamental Law, to which Rule VII of Article VII of the Charter applies. It states that the state and the ecclesiastical communities operate separately, although they cooperate with each other for Community purposes. I think that this principle, which has now been made constitutional, works well, the churches and the state working well for the community's purposes, especially in the field of education, but in the cultural and social field, it works well for the growth of the Hungarian nation. I therefore believe that the dedication of these state-owned properties to the county of Egri, although the proposal is also written in the ordinary language of the bull tree, but it is, in particular, a school where students go, and this school works to the greatest satisfaction of all mud-patakis, it is clearly the right decision to make. What I see is that in this connection, thank God, no political debate arose, and this is also the case with the granting of the other state-owned property to the Carpathian Basin National School of Arts Foundation. I would like to mention one more word from the other part of the proposal, which concerns the national inventory and the electronic rental bid. I am very pleased to see that there is full agreement here, too. I would just like to remind my fellow opposition Members that with these proposals we are also on a killing scale towards the development of the digital rule of law. So when, by the way, you will be kind enough to give us criticisms of the rule of law, then, if possible, add that there are not many countries in the European Union today that have a fully transparent, electronically accessible inventory of assets and a country, you can know exactly what is owned by the state, what is not, and what is of value, it is accessible. They will also add that, from now on, after the adoption of the bill, hopefully, the electronic lease license can be launched as soon as possible, which, on the one hand, will help the state to better manage its property and property, so that more efficient asset management can be achieved, and, on the other hand, the transparency of the property will also increase, and the transparency of the rental bid itself will also increase. I think that there can be no more legislative solution, so if we are to be criticised, then be kind, only in the spirit of fair criticism, and then add that this is a step forward, and you have acknowledged this even in this debate. Of course, the KDNP will support this proposal, since we consider it a forward-looking, excellent proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-164	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-20-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In fact, the bill before us can be divided into two parts: one is about the transfer of real estate in the title and the other contains provisions on the registration or exploitation of state assets. In the present case, the Egri county or the Carpathian Basin National School of Arts Foundation would be able to provide state property listed by the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office. The county of Egri owns a school building in Sárospatak, where the Catholic Elementary School of Szent Erzsébet already operates, but the building itself is still state-owned. [[20.10]] As a matter of fact, we can read that since the church did renovations at its own expense, they also intend to hand over property. They wish to present a pioneering camp in Venice and a cultural house in Székesfehérvár to the Carpathian Basin Foundation. In this case, the reasons are a little more vague, as they only show that real estate transfers help the Foundation to perform its educational, educational and higher education tasks more effectively. But it is no longer known how and why these properties can increase efficiency. However, the current state of the regulation on the management of state assets would be significantly altered. Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. is changing in this context. It also has a role to play. It was also apparent from the proposals submitted in previous years that this company's responsibilities for the management of state-owned companies were decreasing. Remember, a public-owned company can be controlled by a person appointed by the government in a specific decision. The form of this was to designate virtually anyone as a so-called owner-right practitioner, while too many restrictions or conditions were not included in the law. In doing so, the company was excluded from the MNV-treated circle. In addition to the reduction in this task, MNV's activities on real estate have increased. For example, this is where the apartments left after the National Asset Management Program ran out. This company also manages the transfer of individual public properties. As a new task, we see that the placement of individual budgetary bodies will also have to be resolved by the MNV in the future. The number of tasks is therefore increasing in some respects, so it is a question of whether the number of employees in the company is also increasing, or whether the existing apparatus should manage more and more real estate-related tasks. In addition to real estate management, we can see other changes. For example, in setting up a national inventory, an up-to-date database of property owned by the State could be welcomed. I would like to point out to Congressman Hollik that I took it seriously, that is indeed a positive step. It is also an interesting change that the tendering procedure for the renting of public properties will also be subject to electronic bidding. In this context, the question arises whether it is only the size of the rent offered or whether other aspects such as professional or social aspects are taken into account. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that there are forward-looking elements in the bill, which could even be supported. However, there is an area that is more than problematic, and this is the free transfer of state-owned property. If you look at the last few years, the number of public properties that have been given private ownership for different reasons is already over 100. We don't understand, so I'm asking why properties held in public property should suddenly be privately owned. These proposals raise doubts as to whether the government will conduct these transactions with due diligence and good faith. It is enough to think of the final vote on the real estate provided to the trust foundations, then the text submitted to the Parliament contained only two properties in Pécs, and then the majority of the Legislative Committee's pro-government members suddenly added the list to the list of eight properties in Révfülöp, including a sailing port, a saturday, a Zalaegerszeg and a Szekszárd property. It is strange that the government sent Balázs Orbán, the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, to the Commission's debate on the amendments, who is also the chairman of the Board of Board of the Foundation for the Mathias Corvinus College. In other words, he is the authority of the State to transfer the property free of charge, while on the other hand he is the authority to take over the property. The Secretary of State handled this conflict of interest only by saying that I have two hats. And I'm telling you, in a normal country, you could buy both your hats after a case like this, because you should leave, but it looks like this situation in Orbánistan is completely accepted. I also find it amazing that, according to the Secretary of State, free transfer of state property is good because state property is in a much better place in private hands than in public hands. I wonder what the Minister responsible for this national wealth thinks of her work as such in the government. What I have just listed is circumstances that, in the least possible terms, urge caution on the good faith of the government and the transparency of the transactions in question. I mean, let's face it, there is no guarantee that government representatives, copying their practices so far, are not putting new state property on the list, or even newcomers as host parties, avoiding general debate and transparency. Unfortunately, it is also clear to us that the government's generous real estate transfers do not by chance affect a circle of local governments. It is precisely the fact that local authorities carry out most of the public tasks, let us add, in increasingly difficult circumstances. This year the car tax was deducted from them, many have to pay solidarity contributions, while their business tax revenue has fallen greatly. They don't get real estate. Until the government's policy changes in this area, such a proposal as it lies before us cannot be supported. In view of this, the MSZP will vote against the decision on the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2020-10-20-166	Thank you, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect that someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary Major.
u2020-10-20-167	Thank you. I'll take that chance. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President, In part, I thank the lead speaker of Fidesz for his very detailed presentation, and I thank the State Court of Auditors for its information on professional support and history, and for its opinion that, overall, the first part of the regulation of the bill before us is a step forward. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to what my fellow Member Hadházy has to say, in which he stressed why these real estate transfers should be regulated by law and why not by the government, which is otherwise available, does not deal with them. Because the obligation to restore the Egers can only be released by law, and since the building has been cleaned up, the obligation to recover would therefore constitute an unfair claim or compensation of an amount which, according to the author, is unfair. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the breakdown of the approximately 18 000 billion state assets by the number of localities would break the limits of tonight's presentation and my response, not to mention the fact that it is not the subject of the presentation. For the record, you have indicated that you already know who will win the property license you mentioned tomorrow or the day after. I admit I don't know, so I'm asking you not to ask me for an answer, you know more than I do. My fellow Member Hollik detailed the cooperation between the state and the church and the fact that the regulatory part of the second part of the proposal was indeed a very serious step forward. I would like to give a concrete answer to a specific question to Mrs Zita Gurmai that the tasks of the Hungarian National Asset Manager have indeed increased significantly. To the best of my knowledge, we have no plans to increase the number of people, but the modernisation of MNV's activities, to be promoted by this bill, is aimed at electronicisation and digitalization, not the expansion of the number. [[20.20]] In terms of the number of growing sales, it is not about where the wealth is in better hands, not to mention that if you look at the total amount of state property and the sale to private parties, then there are thousands of billions against the number of a few hundred, but I also ask you to consider that, in order to implement it, the Hungarian National Asset Manager has a revenue plan that needs to be fulfilled. The management of state property is not just about preserving it, it's about increasing it, and at a given moment, when there's such an opportunity or demand, I sell it. I would also like to say on the demand because it was the interesting point that Mrs Gurmai raised about the aspects that we will apply in the case of a usage and rental bid. In the same way as in the sale of ownership, of course, the price is a very important factor, but there are some places where the claimant's duties and, for example, the churches have a privileged role to play, whether the performance of their social, educational or public tasks has been taken into account in the matter of property, and I am convinced that we will take this into account in the case of renting. State property versus private property, this is an old debate, but in this case I would like to stress very strongly that this is not the case. Allow me to put a short sentence on it, I do not know, perhaps the congresswoman also mentioned that the municipalities will not be given ownership free of charge. In addition, several municipal claims are received from the Hungarian National Asset Manager and the State Secretary of Property Policy managed by the Minister without a portfolio of national assets for the transfer of state-owned property. If the municipalities fulfil the conditions laid down in the property law and request the property for such purposes, they have always received it, in large numbers and in all cases received it. Therefore, the claim that the municipalities do not receive the State's assets in a legal and justified case is unfounded. Finally, but not least, given the fact that the concepts have been mentioned here several times today, and in the previous period, allow me to conclude and to record for the protocol that the single State property register is the register where MNV Zrt. record all state assets entrusted to all holders of ownership rights. All owners of the single State property register shall provide data, whether public or municipal, or property managed by any wallet. The national inventory also makes available specific data on the single State property register, which, as stated here this evening, can be accessed free of charge through the homepage of the national inventory. The national inventory presents state property, company shares and other movable property items in a uniform structure, quantity and value for a given date, and I note them in parentheses, of course with the exceptions laid down by law, such as assets for national security purposes. Mr President, That's all I wanted to reflect on what was said. Thank you again for your attention and for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-20-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. Where did Damon Hill go? And where did Mihály Takács, the leader of Ferenc Puskás Football Academy, disappear to? It's an address. Here you go, notary.
u2020-10-20-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Where'd Damon Hill go? László Palik asked the question in 1997. I'm sure you'll remember, at the Hungarian Formula One Grand Prix, simply this excellent British pilot, who led the race, vanished from the eyes of the cameras. This happened because his vehicle malfunctioned, and he couldn't turn above warp three after the 74th round, and it was finally his undoing. And where did Mihály Takács disappear from the head of the Football Academy in Upstairs? This is also an important question, because according to the news, Mihály Takács, along with István Csáki's co-worker, did not have to leave with a car known in Formula 1, but with security guards, and according to my information, he was given a short period of thirty minutes to pack his belongings under supervision and leave the football base at Felcsút. Officially, all we know is that he's a new head of the academy in the name of Dezső Liskai. It's a small-talented information, and there's no justification. It would be nice to know what is really going on, why football is more loving than anything, and the confidence of our prime minister giving it all the support, otherwise his former personal trainer in such undeserving circumstances, from one moment to the next, is just thrown away. This change, by the way, raises a number of questions, and if you will allow me, I will now only raise the interesting sports mails. They found out that doing sports is an independent profession, and it's not enough for a personal trainer to know? Did the professional incompetence of these gentlemen ever come to light at the Highway Academy? Did the professional book they had recently published and received a tremendous amount of publicity reveal that it does not show global knowledge? Ladies and gentlemen, What about these state academys? The question arises, and only because the inventions of these gentlemen are these academys, and their selection was otherwise without professionalism and even geographical logic, but it was all the more political. There is no one among them, there is no Pécs, there is no Kaposvár, there is no Nyíregyháza, but there is, for example, Kisvárda or Ferencváros, who have not been able to train one talented Hungarian player in the last nine years, despite a great deal of Tao support. And if we draw an imaginary line diagonally in Hungary, we can see that no state academy has gone to the southern province. Plus, who knows for what reason, even the application for these ten places hasn't been made. [[20.30]] This is how between 247 million and 1 billion HUF 181 million were allocated to each academy in the second half of 2019. The least the Iron Kubala Academy got until they're gonna figure it out the most, so I'm gonna tell you about the Puskás Football Academy in Felcsút. Is that what broke the fuse? Or did it turn out that the presence of state academys in team sports is professionally, economically and otherwise not justified from the point of view of competition? Ladies and gentlemen, Where'd Damon Hill go? Well, we know that now. But where did Michael Takács go? A few days ago, he led everything, he was the boss, but now it seems that he was forced to leave Supper, because of a professional, moral or even economic problem, and maybe also from Hungarian football. But why did he have to disappear? What will be the fate of state-supported football academys? Will there be any? And when there is, is there a new, professional decision? Now, these are the questions that we want answers to as soon as possible. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-20-170	Thank you, Congressman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good rest.
